Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's first quarter 2011 results released earlier this morning.
Unless otherwise noted in the press release our NI [ph] remarks and related materials this morning the first quarter results discussed in the press release and during this call relates solely to legacy CenturyLink Inc.
Therefore unless otherwise noted they do not include results of operations request.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available on CenturyLink's IR website at ir.centurylink.com or the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for question and answer.
On Slide 2.
You'll see our Safe Harbor language.
It's there for your information.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for 2011 the integration of Embarq and Qwest the pending acquisition of Savvis and other outlooks in our business.
Now moving to Slide 3 we ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this morning and the slide presentation of remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
This slide also contains additional disclosure information related to the recent CenturyLink and Savvis merger agreement announcement.
We ask that you review our Safe Harbor language and these additional disclosures found here as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in those forward-looking statements.
Turning to Slide 4 your host today is Glenn Post Chief Executive Officer and president of CenturyLink.
Joining Glenn on our call today is Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
Also available during the question and answer period of today's call is Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer.
Our call today will be accessible for telephone replay through May 11 2011 and accessible for webcast replay through May 25 2011.
For anyone listening to taped or webcast replay of this call or for anyone reviewing a written transcript of today's call please note that all information presented is current only as of May 5 2011 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date listened to or reviewed.
So as you turn to Slide 5 I will now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss CenturyLink's first quarter 2011 operating results as well as selected operational updates and 2011 guidance information.
We achieved solid financial and operational performance for the first quarter of 2011 even as we worked toward an April 1 date for the closing of our acquisition of Qwest and the launch of the combined company.
Operating revenues are at the top of our guidance and diluted earnings per share exceeded the top end of our guidance and we also achieved solid high-speed Internet subscriber growth in the first quarter and continue to see improvements in access line declines.
Now moving to Slide 6 in the deck we achieved operating revenues of $1.7 billion for the quarter the top end of our guidance.
Diluted earnings per share excluding special items was $0.76 per share exceeding the top end of guidance by $0.06.
Our cash flows remained strong.
We generated free cash flow of $528 million during the quarter.
There were several factors contributing our operating revenues meeting the top end of our previous guidance for the quarter.
First of all we lost fewer access lines than we had forecast for the quarter.
Second access minutes of use declined at a slower rate than we had anticipated and demand for our strategic product and services continues to show strong growth.
And strategic revenues continue to increase as a percentage of total operating revenues.
In first quarter 2011 strategic revenues accounted for 31% of total revenues compared to 27% in the first quarter of 2010.
The growth in strategic revenues as a percentage of total operating revenues is a positive trend that we are focused on continuing in the months ahead.
Also we continue to enhance our broadband product portfolio through deploying higher speeds in key markets as well as adding incremental value through broadband features such as computer support and online backup services.
In the first quarter we maintained our overall go-to-market approach but continued to refine our segmentation our messaging our bundled and tools for our sales channels to drive customer growth and average revenue per customer per unit.
We also continue to enhance and expand our advanced data our IP networks and value-added services for business and enterprise customers.
Overall monthly recurring revenues continue to look solid in enterprise our sales for Strategic Products which included the net [ph] and MPLS direct Internet access were up 18% year-over-year and first quarter '11.
Additionally we saw an increase of 31% year-over-year sales -- in these sales to new customers.
Enterprise recurring revenues are down slightly year-over-year and grew slightly on a sequential basis thanks to growth in data products particularly retail ethernet.
Also direct Internet access was a bright spot within enterprise with 31% year-over-year growth.
Loss revenues continued to decline in both enterprise and the SMB space with loss revenues down 13% year-over-year in our enterprise operation.
Now turning to Slide 7 I'd like to cover a few operating highlights for the quarter.
First we added more than 52 000 high-speed Internet customers during the quarter as demand for broadband remains solid and customers continue to respond well to our broadband offers.
We ended the quarter with approximately 2.45 million high-speed Internet customers or 40% penetration of total addressable lines.
In addition we continue to see improvement in our rate of access line decline as we continue to focus on new customer acquisitions by targeting the non-customer base as well as enhancing our retention programs.
Our first quarter line loss of approximately 106 500 represents a 13.6% sequential improvement over the fourth quarter of 2010 and a 15.2% improvement over the first quarter of 2010 access line loss level.
We continue to see a decline in disconnect orders in both the Consumer and Business segments which we believe is attributable to a more stable economy resulting in fewer moves less business line downsizing and fewer competitive ports.
And we're pleased that we have been successful in reducing our rate of access line loss for the trailing 12 months to 7.5% a reduction of 8.1% reported in the first quarter of 2010.
One of the keys to this ongoing improvement in customer loss has been the performance from the top 5 Embarq markets.
We continue to see strong traction in these markets and improvement continues to outpace the rest of the company.
We continue to see strong results in DIRECTV sales as we added more than 34 000 satellite video subscribers in the first quarter.
We ended the quarter with almost 662 000 satellite video customers that's about a 15.4% penetration of primary residential lines.
We've also soft launched our Prism link -- excuse me our CenturyLink Prism service in 3 new markets in Tallahassee in Orlando Florida; in Raleigh; Durham North Carolina making our Prism services available in a total of 8 markets now.
The number of Prism capable households passed -- increased nearly 22% in the first quarter and we continue to expect to pass close to a million households by the end of the year.
We were pleased with the overall progress we are making with our Prism TV service thus far and are confident we'll continue to see growth in this area.
We continue the success in driving broadband penetration and our success in both satellite video and Prism TV sales helped improve consumer average revenue per unit by $1.11 or 2% in the first quarter of 2011 over the first quarter of 2010.
And finally we have begun reselling Verizon wireless products and services to small business customers in CenturyLink markets.
Our consumer launch is scheduled to begin in mid-May in select markets and will be expanded to all markets over the next several months through a phase-in approach.
Turning now to Slide 8.
We continue to make great progress toward completing the integration of Embarq.
We completed our fourth marketing conversion.
All customers in the state of Florida were converted in March and we now have approximately 75% of Embarq customers on CenturyLink systems.
We also remain on schedule to complete the fifth and final Embarq customer billing conversion comprised of customers in 11 states during the third quarter of this year.
We continue to meet our synergy targets and on track to achieve our expected $375 million in operating expense synergies as we projected.
Now moving on to Slide 9.
We are pleased to have closed our merger with Qwest and launched the combined company on April 1.
The excellent work conducted by our integration teams and employees of both companies has resulted in a very smooth transition for us.
We have heard positive feedback from our business customers about the value proposition they see in a company with greater scale with an enhanced product portfolio and broader access footprint.
We've also implemented CenturyLink's local operating model across all of the Qwest markets now.
I believe our strong results for the first quarter combined with a smooth transition to the combined company demonstrates the ability of our employees to executive our business plans while undertaking the complex job of combining our 2 companies.
Our integration efforts for the Qwest operations are off to good start.
We remain on track to complete the conversion of Qwest financial and human resource sources systems to our SAP platform by year-end.
Additionally network grooming activities are underway which continue over a number of months.
Even with the significant cost reductions achieved by Qwest since we announced the merger a year ago we continue to expect to achieve operating expense synergies of $575 million for the next 3 to 5 years and capital expenditures synergies of $50 million in the next couple of years.
We currently expect to achieve $80 million to $100 million in operating expense synergies from the Qwest acquisition in 2011 and we expect to exit 2011 at an annual run rate of about $200 million in synergies.
As we turn to Slide 10 I want to briefly touch on the Savvis merger agreement that we announced last week and why we think this transaction is such a good fit for both CenturyLink and Savvis.
First the acquisition of Savvis really a positive logical next step for CenturyLink.
We believe the combination of CenturyLink's network and hosting assets with Savvis' assets will provide an exciting new platform that will enable us to capture growth in Managed Hosting Cloud Computing and Colocation businesses.
The CenturyLink-Savvis combination really is about growth.
Together we will create a premier managed hosting and cloud provider with global scale.
Additionally this acquisition will further diversify revenue mix toward a higher growth business segment.
With Qwest and now Savvis approximately 58% of our revenues will come from business customers.
It's also important to note that this transaction has a minimal impact on our leverage allowing us to maintain our strong financial position and we're pleased to have received confirmation of our credit ratings by all 3 credit agencies leaving the company with 2 of 3 ratings at investment grade.
Also the addition of Savvis will provide a clear path for the integration of the legacy Qwest Hosting business.
So overall the Savvis transaction makes strong strategic sense for our company.
Turning now to Slide 11.
The combination of CenturyLink and Savvis will position CenturyLink as a global leader in managed hosting cloud computing which is growing at a rate of about 20% annually.
CenturyLink and Savvis will have a robust national network with over 200 route miles of fiber with a global presence across North America and Europe and Asia.
In addition this transaction will triple CenturyLink's data centers from 16 to 48 and offer significantly enhanced product depth for our customers.
Coupling Savvis' leading managed IT services and enterprise grade cloud services with CenturyLink's much larger telecommunications and networking operations and our hosting assets will allow us to gain scale in a rapidly growing industry faster than we could do organically.
Also by leveraging CenturyLink's existing relationships with our many business customers we'll be able to provide Savvis' IT consulting and cloud products to a greatly expanded customer base.
With that I'll turn it over to Stewart for some comments on our financial results.
Stu? Thank you Glen.
During the next few minutes I'll review some highlights of our first quarter 2011 operating results and will conclude my comments with a discussion of the 2011 guidance provided in our earnings release issued earlier today and provide comments on our capital structure.
Turning to Slide 13 I want to begin by reviewing with you a couple of special items that occurred during the first quarter and then I will discuss first quarter normalized results.
First we incurred approximately $29.6 million of pretax expenses or about $0.06 per share related to integration and severance costs associated with the Embarq integration.
Second we incurred about $5.9 million in pretax transactions and integration cost positions [ph].
In the aggregate these items represent the $0.07 per share difference in normalized diluted earnings per share of $0.76 and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.69.
Now turning to Slide 14.
This slide reflects CenturyLink's results for first quarter 2011 compared to first quarter 2010 excluding special items for both periods as outlined in our financial schedules.
Please note that the information on this slide excludes Qwest's results since the merger closed effective April 1.
I'll briefly discuss Qwest first quarter results a little later in my comments.
For first quarter 2011 operating revenues declined $104.7 million to $1.7 billion from $1.8 billion in first quarter a year ago.
The decline in revenue resulted primarily due to a 7.5% decline in access lines and the anticipated decline in Universal Service Fund revenue.
This was partially offset by higher special access revenue due to demand from wireless carriers and the increase in high-speed Internet customers.
Cash operating expenses decreased $37 million from $865 million in first quarter 2010 to $828 million in first quarter 2011 primarily due to lower transport costs due to the migration of legacy Embarq long distance traffic to our internal IT network and lower personnel costs.
These decreases were partially offset by higher costs associated with the expansion of CenturyLink's Prism TV service into additional markets as Glen commented on earlier.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased from $353 million in first quarter of 2010 to $369 million in first quarter of 2011 primarily due to planned additions and final valuation adjustments for the Embarq acquisition.
Net income attributed to CenturyLink for the quarter was $233 million compared to $279 million in first quarter a year ago.
And diluted earnings per share were $0.76 in first quarter 2011 and $0.93 in first quarter 2010.
We achieved earnings above the end of our -- the top of our guidance range due to lower than expected operating expenses.
The year-over-year decrease in net income and earnings per share is due to anticipated revenue declines we've discussed with you and the challenge of reducing costs in the near term due to the Qwest transaction and the expansion of IPTV service into additional markets.
Completing the successful integration of Embarq and planning for and achieving successful integration of Qwest are 2 of our primary focus areas.
While the merging integrations and these product expansions impact our operating costs in the near term we're confident that these represent investments in the future success and growth of CenturyLink.
Finally our free cash flow decreased 16.6% from $633 million in first quarter 2010 to $528 million in first quarter 2011.
Free cash flow declined in first quarter 2011 primarily due to a $44 million increase in capital expenditures and lower operating cash flow.
Our free cash flow calculation is defined as net income excluding special items plus income tax expense depreciation and amortization less cash paid for income taxes and capital expenditures.
We revised our definition of free cash flow due to the impact on cash paid income taxes of bonus depreciation and the impact of Qwest NOLs going forward.
On Slide 15 we highlight Qwest's results for the year.
Qwest generated revenue of $2.85 billion a 4% decline from the same quarter a year ago.
Strategic services revenues grew primarily due to an increase in Qwest iQ Networking and data transport services as well as higher broadband revenues driven by subscriber growth and an improving mix of higher speed broadband services.
These increases were more than offset by a decline in legacy service revenue associated with line losses along with lower data integration revenues.
Operating expenses including both cash and noncash expenses but excluding special items declined nearly 6% to $2.25 billion due to lower personnel and selling costs.
Operating income excluding special items grew 2.4% to $593 million.
Access lines declined 10.7% from the year ago period.
Meanwhile DSL growth remained healthy at nearly 4% growth year-over-year.
Now turning to Slide 16.
Our 2011 guidance excludes the effects of nonrecurring items integration expenses associated with the Embarq acquisition transaction and integration expenses associated with the Qwest acquisition any changes in operating or capital plans any changes in regulation and any future mergers acquisitions divestitures or similar business transactions.
Please note 2011 full-year guidance which is the first column on the slide reflects only CenturyLink results for first quarter 2011 and then combined CenturyLink and Qwest results for the remainder of the year.
For full-year 2011 CenturyLink expects operating revenues to be $14.9 billion to $15.1 billion and EPS to range from $2.55 to $2.65 and capital expenditures to be $2.2 billion to $2.3 billion.
For second quarter 2011 CenturyLink expects total revenues of $4.4 billion to $4.43 billion and diluted earnings per share of $0.63 to $0.67.
The sequential decline in diluted earnings per share expected in second quarter is due primarily to a decline in voice and access revenue partially offset by an increase in high-speed Internet revenue and a seasonal increase in outside plant maintenance.
Please note on this slide that the second column entitled pro forma 2011 provides guidance as if the Qwest merger was effective January 1 2011 and the company operated on a combined basis for the full-year of 2011.
We continue to expect that our dividend payout ratio in 2011 will be slightly less than 50% of free cash flow.
On Slide 17 in the earnings release today we included estimated impacts that the application of business combination accounting rules are expected to have on the combined company's financial results for second quarter 2011 and full-year 2011.
All of these items are noncash items.
Please see the earnings release and the related 10-Q filing for further information.
Additionally we attached a pro forma first quarter 2011 income statement which reflects pro forma first quarter results as if the Qwest acquisition closed January 1 2011.
To simplify our guidance and when building your first -- your models for 2011 you may want to use this as a base for projecting your pro forma results for 2011.
The midpoint of our second quarter diluted earnings per share guidance is $0.65.
If you assume that we maintain about that level of earnings in each of the remaining quarters of 2011 and add first quarter pro forma diluted earnings per share of $0.70 you get to $2.65 or the top of our pro forma diluted EPS guidance for the year.
In essence we are expecting to be able to offset revenue declines which by the way we expect to continue to improve during the year and the cost of our IPTV rollout with the realization of synergies related to Embarq and the Qwest acquisition.
Regarding the capital structure and use of free cash flow as we have stated the board will consider use of free cash flow next year as we more fully realize expected merger synergies and see further progress with the merging integration of Qwest.
We have also indicated that maintaining an investment grade credit metrics is important.
Accordingly we expect that during 2011 and 2012 we will reduce debt by $1.5 billion to $2 billion from the year-end 2010 pro forma level.
This concludes our prepared remarks for the day.
At this time I'll ask the operator to provide further instructions for the question-and-answer portion of our call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Barden.
[Bank of America Merrill Lynch] So I think this is a good venue maybe an opportunity to hash something out.
Looking back at first quarter in January the market was looking for a $670 million of EBITDA.
After the February print you guys guided people down on conservative margin expectations and the guidance fell to $625 million.
And then you guys just posted up a $668 million EBITDA number basically -- exactly where everyone thought you would be.
But in the meantime because you guided everyone down the stock price is down 10%.
And now we're looking at the Qwest merger you guys have a very good print.
But your stock is underperforming today and it's because I think people are confused as to whether -- we're trying to be conservative or things are really getting worse at the combined entity.
Because if you take your CenturyLink stand-alone guidance for revenue for instance and add the Qwest revenue from first quarter it implies adjusting for the eliminations that the Qwest revenue growth rate will go from a decline of 4% to a decline of over 6% in the rest of the year.
Despite Stewart which I think you are saying was that revenue growth is actually going to get better.
So I think people are struggling to understand are we being conservative and we should really just assume that this is the rock bottom that we're going to do for the year? Or do we really need to be concerned about what the business is doing because the number seem to suggest it's is not going to get better for the rest of the year? Yes David.
First let me address the revenue decline.
On a pro forma basis for 2011 we expect to end the year on a combined basis at about a 3% decline compared with 2010.
So it could be that some of the elimination entries and some of the acquisition-related adjustments are making it look that way to you.
I'm not sure I'll have to go back and look at that further.
Maybe we can talk later.
But just -- all in all if you take 2010 and 2011 we would expect to end the year -- full-year at about a 3% decline compared with 2010.
In terms of the first quarter guidance that we gave versus where we ended up and I guess versus the guidance that we're giving for second quarter basically our expenses were lower than we thought they would be in first quarter primarily due to the -- our bad debt expense was down somewhat about a little less than $6 million.
We spent a little bit less rolling out IPTV primarily related to marketing because we had a good funnel from the standpoint of installations that we really didn't want to -- we didn't really need to push it from a marketing standpoint so we didn't spend some marketing dollars that we had anticipated spending.
I guess the pension reduction we didn't really have built into our guidance that we basically froze the pension for non-bargaining unit employees.
And we did that -- I guess our board approved it actually after the first quarter earnings call.
And then just our outside plant maintenance expenses which typically in the first quarter are lower just from a seasonal standpoint ended up being lower than we had estimated.
And then some of the -- our maintenance contracts in IT.
I guess we got a little bit more synergy from the Embarq acquisition that we really didn't expect to get in the first quarter.
So that kind of really rounds out first quarter in terms of why we ended up better than we thought we would end up from an expense standpoint.
If you look at second quarter again it's going to be basically the seasonal maintenance associated with our outside plant activity that we normally experience.
And then we do expect to pick up some of the marketing expenses that we didn't incur in the first quarter.
And again expect -- we think our bad debt expense was actually a little bit unusually lower in the first quarter.
And then we expect to continue to drive IPTV and expect that to as we discussed on last quarter's call expect that to drive higher expenses more or less throughout the year.
From a revenue standpoint always first quarter from -- compared with fourth quarter we had the revenue step down associated with USF.
We had that step down in first quarter this year.
We expect that to be relatively flat for the remainder of the year so that will account for some of the improvement in the revenue decline and then we expect IPTV as well to show some positive results throughout the remainder of the year in terms of increase in revenue to offset some of the declines that we'll otherwise see.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi.
[UBS] I do want to follow up on the revenue guidance question.
If we look at the pro forma revenue decline in the first quarter it's about 4.7%.
The guidance for the year suggests that you're going to basically be at about 4% to 5% decline as a standalone CenturyLink or pro forma company.
And given the positive commentary about USF being flat IPTV should improve.
I think you had mentioned before that there is some opportunity to gain share back in Qwest territory from the SMB business.
Would you expect this revenue decline to decelerate from 1Q on? And related to that I wanted to just follow up on the CapEx side.
If you could provide a little more granularity on how the CapEx has been split in terms of fiber-to-the-cell opportunity versus IPTV and what -- about how many markets do you expect to launch on IPTV this year? Okay.
Batya just with the -- I'll start with the CapEx and then Glen can talk about IPTV rollouts and then we'll come back to revenue.
Basically at legacy CenturyLink because of increased demand from the wireless carriers for fiber-to-the-cell we would expect to spend about $180 million or so in 2011 for fiber-to-the-cell projects.
At legacy Qwest as you know there -- have a project with respect to increase in high-speed Internet speeds with their fiber-to-the-node project.
If you -- and basically they use some of that build to get to the fiber-to-the-tower as well.
So when you look at the combined fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-tower build out that legacy Qwest would expect they would expect to spend about $300 million in 2011.
So of the total $2.6 billion $2.7 billion capital budget about $0.5 billion of it is due to a combination of fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-tower in 2011.
And Batya regarding IPTV rollout we do not expect any additional rollouts in the CenturyLink markets.
We have all the 8 markets now and we'll be working to accelerate the growth there the implementation there working through that.
We'll be evaluating the Qwest markets in the coming months.
We have no -- not made any decisions about any rollouts of additional markets there but we are -- we do think there could be some opportunity there.
We're in the process and working through the cost of the plant requirements plant addition costs and shortening of loops of what we require there.
And we'll be making those decisions around mid-year as far as any additional rollouts for IPTV and in any of those markets.
Yes and on the revenue guidance and -- I mean I apologize to all of you for all of this being so complicated.
But if you look at some of the eliminations that we have associated with the purchase accounting so we have affiliate revenue where we were a customer of Qwest and they were a customer of us in some cases of about $76 million related to 2010 that in effect needs to be pulled out of 2010 revenue when you're putting the 2 of us together.
There's also $216 million of installation revenue on Qwest that basically is deferred revenue on the balance sheet is a deferred liability basically.
It gets amortized to revenue over the expected lives of the customer.
With the purchase accounting adjustments basically that gets a fair value of 0 so that revenue basically never gets recognized even though -- and the cash was previously received on it.
So basically there's about $280 million of revenue that you need to back out of 2010 revenue if you just take legacy CenturyTel or Link and legacy Qwest and add it together.
So basically that's about $18.5 billion of revenue for 2010.
And they're comparable adjustments.
I think all of that is in the 8-K that we filed and in the pro formas.
They're comparable adjustments that would need to be pulled out of 2011 basically.
If you're just trying to project out legacy CenturyLink and legacy Qwest and add them together the comparable amount that you would pull out of 2011 is about $250 million or so.
I think if you make those adjustments you'll get down to about the 3% or so decline that we expect.
So I think what's happening there you may be comparing -- maybe taking 2010 adding CenturyLink and Qwest together without making those negative adjustments that need to be applied to 2010 and then comparing that to the guidance that we're making and it's looking like a 4% to 5% decline as opposed to the 3% decline that we see.
If I could just follow-up on that.
I guess your guidance for CenturyLink alone was just a 2% to 3% decline by year-end.
Now if you make all these adjustments and add Qwest to that what's your expectation for the exit of the year? For revenue decline.
Yes you're right.
Standalone CenturyLink was about 2% to 3% decline when we get fourth to fourth.
If you look at -- basically on a pro forma basis it's about -- actually about 3% fourth to fourth decline.
So I guess if you're looking at 2011 it's closer to a 4% decline on a pro forma basis for full-year.
But when you get to fourth quarter and compare it fourth to fourth basically we'll be down to about a 3% decline fourth quarter to fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack.
[Nomura Securities] Maybe just a couple of things legacy and Qwest and I'm not sure how much you're willing to share here.
But there was a pretty strong recovery in business revenue.
Can you just breakdown for us Stewart if you can the growth rates of Wholesale and Business? And then also on Qwest the consumer line loss and your strategy there to get that improved? And then just lastly maybe for Glen your thoughts on any other holes in your portfolio that you think over the next sort of whatever 3 to 5 year period might be interesting to fill? Mike yes.
So Mike if you -- and we'll file a 10-Q probably tomorrow on QCII and Qwest Corporation so basically you'll get full first quarter information on Qwest once that gets filed tomorrow.
Basically on BMG recurring revenue was flat sequentially and down about 2% year-over-year on slower strategic revenue growth of about 5.2% year-over-year versus 8.3% year-over-year in the first quarter of 2010.
The total segment revenue declined 3.1% year-over-year due to lower data integration revenue.
If I recall I think the data integration revenue was about $47 million lower than it was previously.
So strategic revenue on BMG improved to 45.6% of total revenue from about 42% in the first quarter a year ago.
If you look at Wholesale the total segment revenue was flat sequentially on substantially improved legacy revenue results and down about 5% year-to-year.
If I recall they had pretty good improvement in basically special access.
Again just increased demand that we continue to see from the wireless carriers with both fiber-to-the-cell and additionally turning up additional copper services to the cell where we only have copper in the towers.
Mike regarding the holes in the portfolio product and services.
Right now we feel like we're in very good condition from a service -- product standpoint.
We've got of course the high-speed Internet including interactive services we've got the video product ethernet and MPLS.
We've got CLink operations with a good strong product base there.
We've got -- we're rolling out voice over IP in the markets now we're expanding that footprint.
That's an area we want to expand but we're doing that internally and expect to do that expansion going forward.
We've got the hosting business cloud computing infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service.
Those -- all those services are there.
The only obvious -- you might say is wireless.
But we've got a really good relationship with the Verizon deal we have now that we -- what Qwest has and we think we enhanced that agreement and we feel good about that.
So right now we're going to be really focused on integrating Qwest and getting Savvis integrated and rolling out new products and services there.
No major needs for the time being that we see as far as product gaps.
And Mike on Consumer line loss -- well I guess on total line loss consumer line loss specifically Qwest was down about 12.2% and about 2.9% sequentially.
If you look at total line loss for Qwest quarter-to-quarter first to first they were down about 10.7%.
Qwest and CenturyLink have different methodologies for defining access lines.
If you -- because of the good quarter that Qwest had and in high-speed Internet customer additions basically legacy CenturyLink we count standalone high-speed Internet customers as an access line because it's a customer connection really.
Additionally -- and Qwest does not count that historically.
We do not count Eunice.
Qwest does count Eunice and Qwest has continued to have a decline in Eunice over the years.
So basically if you put first quarter to Qwest on the same methodology that legacy CenturyLink uses their access line loss rate the way we would define it would've been about 7.5% which was about the same as the access line loss rate at legacy CenturyLink at quarter-to-quarter.
Our next question comes from Phil Cusack.
So maybe 2 quick things.
One is can you talk about how you're going to think about revenue synergies going forward both on the Qwest side where you really never broke them out? But now that it's closed maybe you start talking about them and then on Savvis going forward.
Maybe that first? Phil the Savvis acquisition is about growth.
We've talked about synergies there but we think the real opportunity is growing revenues over time.
We have not been willing to put out and we're not going to put out a revenue synergy projection but that is what this is about really.
It's about revenue growth and cash flow growth over time.
And we think it's a -- it is the fastest growing sector with the hosting managed services cloud area that -- in our sector right now.
And we'll be one of the top players with global footprint -- global presence in this sector.
So we feel really good about the opportunities there.
And Qwest bringing the companies together we think we will be able to regain market share in a lot of these areas and have a more robust product portfolio as well.
So the opportunity is there we're just not willing to quantify it at this time.
And I think that's really really tough to track.
And I think a good place for you to look will be the revenue guidance that we give.
Because eventually the synergies that we expect or the improvements that we expect more or less revenue will be built into our guidance and we'll update that quarter-to-quarter.
But it's hard to really break out what is a synergy from a revenue standpoint versus what's business as usual or just hiring a great sales person.
So does it make sense for us to not look for you to sort of break out revenue synergies over time? Yes I think that's right.
I would look at it really as part of the revenue guidance that we give.
And if we -- like we've given guidance for the full-year now.
If we take up our revenue guidance somewhat during 2011 I think you'll be able to assume that some of that's because the local operating model is working and because we're basically achieving some of the objectives that we had from a standpoint of taking market share back.
That makes sense.
And then on the tax line can you talk about taxes over the next say 5 years? Between bonus depreciation and Qwest NOLs how do you think that affects both the GAAP and the cash tax lines? So the GAAP taxes at least this year we expect our effective tax rate to be about 38.5%.
With respect to cash taxes both -- I mean we're using bonus depreciation this year and essentially I mean even on a stand-alone basis legacy CenturyLink would not have had -- would have had only a very small amount of cash taxes.
Legacy Qwest of course brings with it the NOL.
They're taking bonus depreciation this year as well so as a result we'll not use much if any of the NOL that they have available.
What they don't use we'll be able to use that next year.
We don't really expect to pay cash taxes at this point until sometime around the end of 2014 and possibly out into 2015.
And on the -- as you book the -- as you don't pay the cash taxes from the NOLs is it still booked at probably a 38% rate over the next 5 years for GAAP? Yes that's probably a pretty good assumption to use.
I mean that's -- when we've looked at the effective rate on a pro forma basis that's kind of what we come up with for 2011.
So I wouldn't expect that to change a whole lot in the future other than changes in state income tax rates and changes in other items.
Is there a nominal amount of state income tax that we should assume every year or is that pretty low as well? Yes there is a nominal amount of state income taxes that we pay plus we'll pay some nominal amount of alternative minimum tax possibly as well.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery.
[Morgan Stanley] I know it's only a couple of weeks or just a month since you've closed the Qwest transaction but perhaps you could just compare and contrast the first month or so with Qwest versus Embarq.
How are you differing in your approach? How are you finding the systems the people and so forth versus your expectations going in? And you gave some guidance on exiting 2011 at a $200 million synergy run rate.
Perhaps you could talk about how that scales during 2012.
Are we going to see that -- another $200 million next year as well? Or higher or lower? And now I'll start and ask Karen to really -- but at a high level it'll take us a quarter to really get things moving and changing the way the call centers looking to sell products and services to get our local operating model really in place.
So it'll be just like it was at Embarq.
But we're getting a lot of -- I think we're creating a lot of excitement in the marketplace with our local market model.
And we're seeing -- I think we'll see a serious focus on customers and on what's needed in the local market.
We try to rework to regain market share but I'll let Karen to talk about the details here a moment.
So been out quite a bit and I would -- at the same I would use -- we've been incredibly encouraged from the techs and all the front line employees.
They're excited.
We have all the regions in place.
We have all the general managers in their markets.
They've been out they've been doing a lot of roundtable meetings with customers.
So we're learning a lot and we're kind of aligning that with our current go-to-market plan to continue to refine those.
As Glen said we have some fairly significant changes in our channels how we go to market with our channels how we comp our channels.
So from a frontline leadership perspective there's some shifting going on that's going to take us a quarter to work through in bringing them to the way we do business.
But overall very encouraged as we've done our assessment we have our market plans for each market done.
We think the revenue that's in the revenue guidance is very doable.
We're excited about taking market share back getting more local competing with CLEX [ph] and the cable companies have really taken a lot of market from Qwest.
And on the 2012? Yes Simon at this point we're not really prepared to give guidance for 2012.
In part that's due to just the fact that we're still working through the systems to determine what conversions we'll do and that will impact synergies that we would expect to get in 2012.
Our next question comes from Robert Schiffman [ph].
I think your comments on debt pay down over the next 18 months is clearly constructive.
But just to give us a little bit of a better sense of sort of size and timing and placing of financing would really help out.
Historically you've been pretty clear that you want to pay down debt it's apparent in refi-ed debt at the opco [operating company] at Qwest Corp.
level.
The vast majority of the debt that's coming due over the next few years is that not all of it is at Qwest Corp.
But does that imply that if you're going to be coming to market we're unlikely to see a significant amount of DTL [ph] paper shoot and mostly Qwest Corp.
paper shoot? And if not why not? Robert we haven't really made final decisions in terms of what debt we'll pay out and refinance.
But I think if you look back to the end of 2010 we basically between the credit facility and the maturity that Qwest had through the 1st of April or 2nd of April or so we paid off about $500 million of debt during the first quarter.
We'll have the need the financing need associated with the closing of the Savvis transaction where we'll need about -- between $2 billion and $2.4 billion of cash for that.
The timing of that will be dependent upon when that acquisition would close which will be some time in the last half of the year.
And then also we'll do refinancing at the Qwest Corp.
level and we'll likely do some of that this year as well.
But in terms of the amounts we haven't really settled in on that at this point.
You understand where I'm getting at though is that if you have mostly Qwest Corp.
refinancing to do you wouldn't think that you'd want to term out the bridge facility beyond those 2 years.
Because how else do you pay down debt if you do? Yes well we can issue -- I mean some of it can be associated with the Savvis transaction in terms of re-payment of some of that.
There are additional maturities as I recall that either Qwest has or Qwest Corp.
has or Qwest QCIS [ph] that are actually callable at par at sometime in 2012.
So I think we'll have some opportunities to pay down debt at the parent company level and continue to refinance the Qwest Corp.
debt or pay off some of it as it becomes due.
All right just one last question.
You've done a great job in the past integrating all M&amp;A and I think just being consistent in terms of your leverage ratios.
But right now with one of the agencies the BB and Moody's recently changing their low BBB outlook to negative.
Would you be willing or are you considering trying to make a bigger commitment to bondholders like potentially including coupons for them? No not at this time.
I mean we indicated that we expect to pay off between $1.5 billion and $2 billion of debt in 2011 and 2012.
I mean we're hopeful that that will enable us with good performance in the base business to be able to keep the credit ratings as they are.
Our final question for today comes from Kevin Smithen.
[Macquarie Research] Just as a follow-up to that.
You talked about $1.5 billion to $2 billion in debt reduction in 2011 and 2012.
Can you just walk us through some of the -- and dividend payout ratio less than 50% of free cash flow.
Sort of implying cash flow higher than your implied earnings guidance.
Can you talk about some of the -- maybe some noncash adjustments on top of the pro forma adjustments you laid out in the press release that could make free cash flow significantly higher than your guided earnings? Yes.
So basically it's the cash taxes that we'll pay versus book taxes.
Yes.
Anything else? As well as bonus depreciation in 2011 and really because of the NOLs that Qwest has that we'll be able to use in the future we don't really expect significant cash taxes between now and the end of 2014.
So the definition that we're using for free cash flow basically is net income plus depreciation and amortization plus book taxes minus our cash taxes which again we would expect to be fairly small minus capital expenditures.
And also with the -- and from the second quarter on after closing the Qwest transaction we'll get a noncash benefit to interest expense of about $75 million to $80 million a quarter at least for the remainder of 2011.
And we expect to add that back in our free cash flow calculation as well.
So that in effect we'll recognize that that's a noncash item.
But basically the biggest item are really the fact that we're not paying cash taxes other than a minimal amount and that's how the free cash flow gets above what you would typically expect to see by just taking net income and adding depreciation and amortization or for that matter just taking cash flow from operations altogether.
I mean you can kind of back in to a 15%-plus free cash flow yield.
I guess the question is why don't you give annual free cash flow per share guidance as opposed to choosing to give EPS guidance which includes a lot of noncash charges and maybe understating your profitability? That's something we're certainly going to consider for the second quarter forward.
Thank you.
This concludes our question and answer session for today.
I would now like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
In closing CenturyLink did achieve solid financial results for the first quarter with an improving top line revenue trend and strong cash flows.
We're also pleased to close the Qwest transaction effective April 1 and look forward to making solid progress in integrating the Qwest operations in the months ahead.
Additionally the Savvis merger agreement announced last week affords us an excellent path with integration of 16 legacy Qwest data centers and significantly accelerates CenturyLink's growth opportunities in the fast growing Managed Hosting and Cloud Services business.
While also it further strengthens our revenue mix.
The last few years have truly been transformational for CenturyLink and we believe we are well positioned to provide customers the products and services they need as well as continue to create long-term shareholder value in the months and years ahead.
We appreciate your participation in our call today and look forward to speaking with you again in the weeks and months ahead.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CenturyLink's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Sayeed.
Good morning everyone.
We apologize for starting a few minutes late and appreciate your patience.
But welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's Second Quarter 2011 Results released earlier this morning.
Unless otherwise noted in the press release or in our remarks and related materials this morning the second quarter results discussed in the press release and during this call relate to CenturyLink Inc.
including Qwest effective for the full quarter but excluding Savvis.
Savvis’ results for second quarter 2011 are addressed separately in the release and our prepared remarks for today.
Savvis is otherwise only included in the 2011 outlook information provided for full year 2011 and pro forma full year 2011.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available on CenturyLink's IR website at ir.centurylink.com or the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Turning to Slide 2 it contains our Safe Harbor language for your information.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for 2011 the integration of Embarq Qwest and Savvis and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued early this morning and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Now turning to Slide 3 the participants for today.
Your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen on our call today is Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
And also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call is Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer.
Our call today will be accessible for telephone replay through August 9 2011 and accessible for webcast replay through August 23 2011.
And for anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay of this call or for anyone reviewing a written transcript of today's call please note that all information presented is current only as of August 3 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date listened to or reviewed.
So as you to turn Slide 4 I'll now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss CenturyLink's second quarter 2011 operating results as well as selected operational updates and 2011 guidance information.
We delivered solid financial and operational performance for the second quarter of 2011 including revenue in line with our guidance range and improved access line trends.
Our second quarter 2011 results are significantly impacted by noncash accounting charges resulting from purchase price accounting for the Qwest transaction.
These charges significantly impact our net income and earnings per share as depreciation and amortization increases as we amortize the value assigned to the Qwest customer base.
However it's very important to note that the purchase price accounting adjustments have no impact on the cash flows of the company and also the accounting adjustment should not in any way affect the economics of the Qwest acquisition.
We continue to believe the Qwest transaction is a great strategic combination to improve the growth characteristics of our combined company.
Initial Qwest integration efforts are underway and we have now implemented our local operating model in the legacy Qwest markets.
Synergy achievement in the second quarter is in line with our expectations.
Additionally on August 9 we expect to launch a CenturyLink brand into Qwest markets.
Also the final Embarq conversion was completed in late July marking the end of all major integration activities associated with that transaction approximately 25 months following the close.
We have a couple of smaller systems conversions left but the vast majority is now done.
And we're on track to achieve the targeted $375 million in annual run rate synergies later this year.
Additionally we're pleased to welcome Savvis to the CenturyLink family following the close of the transaction with them on July 15.
Now moving to Slide 5 in the deck I'll cover some financial highlights for the quarter.
We achieved operating revenues of $4.4 billion for the quarter hitting the lower end of our guidance range.
The strategic revenue growing by 6% and legacy revenue declining 10.5% as compared with pro forma second quarter 2010.
Diluted earnings per share excluding special items was $0.44 per share below our guidance range due to higher than anticipated amortization related to the business combination accounting of the Qwest properties.
Excluding this unexpected increase earnings per share would be $0.64 and in line with our initial guidance range.
Excluding the impact of noncash items our cash flows remain strong as we generated $950 million of free cash flow during the quarter.
Strategic revenue growth of $98 million was driven by high-speed Internet special access and MPLS growth over the past year.
Now turning to Slide 6.
I'd like to cover a few operating highlights for the quarter.
During the second quarter we added over 12 000 high-speed Internet customers.
Demand in legacy CenturyLink markets is solid and we achieved higher year-over-year inbound sales in the legacy Qwest and CenturyLink markets during the second quarter compared to pro forma second quarter 2010.
However the strong inbound performance was offset by higher than anticipated churn of stand-alone high-speed Internet customers in the legacy Qwest markets.
We've taken steps through competitive bundles and save offers to mitigate this churn which we believe will improve net broadband additions in the coming months.
We ended the quarter with approximately 5.43 million HSI customers approximately 50.1% penetration of total addressable access lines.
As we mentioned on the earnings call last quarter CenturyLink and Qwest had different methodologies for accounting access lines.
The chart on this slide reflects the methodology adjustments to standardized CenturyLink and Qwest subscriber accounts.
On a combined basis we continue to see improvement in our rate of access line decline so we continue to focus on new customer acquisition by targeting the non-customer base as well as enhancing our retention programs.
Our second quarter line loss of approximately 300 000 represents an 18.6% improvement over pro forma second quarter 2010 access line loss.
We continue to see a decline in disconnect orders in both the Consumer and Business segments though we are not seeing much incremental business activity in our markets this year.
We are pleased that we have been successful in reducing our rate of line loss for the trailing 12 months to 7.4% a reduction from a pro forma trailing 12-month line loss of 8.2% in the second quarter of 2010.
One of the keys to this ongoing improvement in customer loss has been the performance in the top 5 Embarq markets and we have continued to see strong traction in these markets and improvement continues to outpace the rest of the company.
We continue to see solid results in DIRECTV sales and we added more than 14 700 satellite videos subscribers in the second quarter.
We ended the quarter with nearly 1.7 million satellite video customers.
Our Prism services are available in a total of 8 markets now and we expect the number of Prism-capable households to pass -- to reach to close to 1 million households by the end of this year.
During the second quarter 2011 high-speed Internet product attachment to our Prism service was 91% and voice attachment was 79%.
We are pleased with the overall progress we're making with Prism TV service thus far this year and we expect continued success in the months ahead.
We also see continued success in driving broadband penetration and our success in both satellite video and Prism TV sales improved Consumer residential [indiscernible] per unit by about $2.18 at 4.3% to $53.29 in the second quarter 2011 over the second quarter of 2010.
And finally we launched the Verizon Wireless in the second quarter of this year.
We launched first the small businesses earlier in the quarter and the process of our phased rollout to consumers on the CenturyLink side across retail and call centers.
We do have access to the full suite of Verizon's services and handsets and look to grow this as an important part of our bundle along with the voice high-speed Internet and video products.
As previously disclosed during the second quarter we began a segment reporting for our 3 major operating groups Regional Markets group Business Markets Group and Wholesale Markets group.
On Slide 7 I'll briefly review some highlights from each of these segments.
And later Stewart will walk you through the financial performance by segment.
Starting with the Regional Markets Group or RMG.
We implemented our local operating model organization across the legacy Qwest markets effective April 1 and we are receiving positive feedback from customers and employees as a result of this implementation.
We also -- also high-speed Internet sales trends were higher.
However we did experience higher than anticipated churn at standalone broadband and the legacy Qwest markets that I mentioned earlier.
We have implemented bundle and phase strategies to mitigate this churn and expect to see improvement in the coming months.
RMG strategic data sales that is Ethernet DIA MPLS and voice over IP continued to post strong growth trends.
2011 strategic revenue is up 6.2% year-over-year.
Additionally sales productivity in the small business market improved due to target bundle offerings and response rates were up 16% with our new go-to-market sales efforts.
Moving to our second segment Business Markets Group or BMG.
We're encouraged by improving sales trends with average MRR or monthly recurring revenue up 9% year-over-year.
Second quarter 2011 was up 3.2% from first quarter '11 and this follows the first quarter '11 over fourth quarter '10 increase of 2.8%.
MPLS revenue grew 11% year-over-year and we continue to have success acquiring large multi-location networks in the commercial enterprise space.
We are expanding our customer facing sales capacity by adding front line sales professionals across the country.
We have also experienced strong performance in retaining existing customers of total contract value renewals in second quarter '11 up 23% from the first quarter of 2011.
We continue to leverage our expanded access footprint of the new combined company.
Also Metro Ethernet expansion continues an Ethernet Private Line product that’s seeing strong customer acceptance with our enterprise customers.
Turning to Slide 8 a few highlights regarding our Wholesale Markets Group or WMG.
We continue to see strong demand from wireless providers for increased bandwidth which continues to drive our fiber-to-the-cell efforts.
This wireless bandwidth demand has provided a positive impact on our special access revenues but we do anticipate these revenues to flatten somewhat in the second half of the year as wireless carriers migrate away from traditional connections since DS1s to fiber-based Ethernet connections.
Basically we will cannibalize some of our special access to the cell tower revenue but expect the Ethernet revenue to grow into the future as demand is driven higher by the growing broadband traffic.
Turning to Slide 9.
We completed the fifth and final customer billing conversion in late July which included customers in 11 states and now have Embarq customers on -- retail Embarq customers on CenturyLink systems.
We're pleased that we were able to complete the major Embarq integration activities within approximately 25 months following the close at the short end of the 24- to 36-month integration range we originally anticipated.
And we continued to meet our synergy targets and are on track to achieve our expected $375 million in operating expense synergies by year-end 2011.
On the Qwest side we substantially completed the organization designs for the combined company by the end of the second quarter and we remain on track to complete the conversion of Qwest financial and human resources systems to our SAP platform by year-end.
Additionally network grooming activities are underway which will continue over a number of months in the Qwest markets.
We achieved $70 million in synergies during the second quarter driven by corporate overhead reduction and network alignment activities and continue to expect to achieve $80 million to $100 million in operating expense synergies in 2011.
And we expect to exit 2011 at an annual run rate of approximately $190 million to $200 million synergy level.
We continue to expect to achieve operating expense synergies of $575 million over the next 3 to 5 years and capital expenditures synergies of $50 million over the next couple of years.
If we turn to Slide 10 we completed the acquisition of Savvis on July 15.
It will operate as a separate business unit.
It will be headquartered in St.
Louis and we believe the combination of CenturyLink's network and hosting assets with Savvis' assets will provide an exciting new platform that will enable us to capture growth in managed hosting cloud computing and colocation businesses.
Now the CenturyLink-Savvis combination really is about growth.
Together we'll create a premier -- we do create a premier managed hosting and cloud provider with global scale.
And based on 25% growth in the hosting business we expect revenues of approximately $1 billion for 2011 and operating cash flow of approximately $275 million.
So overall the Savvis transaction makes strong strategic sense and operational sense for our company.
With that I'll turn it over to Stewart for comments on our financial results.
Thank you Glen.
During the next few minutes I'll review some of the highlights of our second quarter 2011 operating results and will conclude my comments with a discussion of 2011 guidance provided in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Turning to Slide 12.
I want to begin by reviewing with you a couple of special items that occurred during the second quarter and then I'll discuss the second quarter normalized results.
First we incurred approximately $245 million of pretax expenses or about $0.26 per share related to integration severance and retention cost associated with the Qwest integration.
Second we incurred about $25 million in pretax integration and severance costs or about $0.03 per share related to the Embarq acquisition and $2 million in pretax transaction and integration cost related to the Savvis transaction.
These special items were offset by favorable settlement of an operating tax issue of $12 million or $0.01 a share.
Non-operating items include Bruce facility costs net of interest on the settlement of an operating tax issue and the tax benefit from reduction of an NOL valuation allowance which together accounted for about $0.01 of share as well.
In the aggregate these items represent the $0.27 per share difference in normalized diluted earnings per share of $0.44 and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.17.
Now turning to Slide 13.
This slide reflects CenturyLink's results for the second quarter 2011 compared to pro forma second quarter 2010 excluding special items for both periods as outlined in our financial schedules.
Please note that the information on this slide includes Qwest results for second quarter 2011 and pro forma second quarter 2010 as if the Qwest merger occurred as of January 1 2010.
The final column titled actual 2010 does not include the Qwest results and really includes the as-reported results.
For second quarter 2011 operating revenues decreased to $4.4 billion from $4.6 billion in pro forma second quarter a year ago.
The decrease in revenue resulted primarily due to growth in strategic revenues driven by growth in HSI high-speed Internet customers and data services and transport demands being more than offset by a decrease in legacy revenues due to continued access line losses and lower access revenues.
Cash operating expenses decreased from $2.6 billion in pro forma second quarter 2010 to $2.5 billion in the second quarter of 2011.
Depreciation and amortization expense was virtually flat from $1 195 000 000 in pro forma second quarter a year ago to $1 198 000 000 in the second quarter of 2011.
These figures included the noncash impact of business combination accounting from assigning the fair value to Qwest properties including the customer list in both periods.
Net income for the quarter was $262 million compared to $302 million in pro forma second quarter a year ago.
And diluted earnings per share were $0.44 in the second quarter 2011 and $0.51 in the pro forma second quarter a year ago.
Excluding the impact of higher than anticipated depreciation and amortization expense associated with the preliminary assignment of fair value and depreciable life to Qwest property and intangible assets again primarily the customer base second quarter 2011 earnings per share would have been $0.64.
Our free cash flow increased from $876 million in pro forma second quarter 2010 to $950 million in the second quarter of 2011 so an increase in free cash flow from quarter-to-quarter.
Our free cash flow definition is defined as net cash provided by operating activities excluding special items less capital expenditures.
In addition there is one item I'd like to point you to in the actual 2010 results compared with the second quarter 2011 results basically regarding our operating cash flow as it more than doubled in the second quarter of 2011 resulting in a 4.6% increase in operating cash flow per share to $3.20 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
As Glen mentioned earlier turning to Slide 14 we now report 3 operating segments.
In total regional operating market revenues declined $117 million or 4.9%.
The strategic revenue grew $40 million or 5.8% from pro forma second quarter 2010 driven mainly by high-speed Internet customer adds as well as growth in other revenues.
Legacy revenue declined $150 million or 9.1% from pro forma second quarter 2010 as access line losses continued to impact local and long-distance revenues.
Our data integration revenues declined $7 million or 17.5% resulting from lower CPE sales.
Segment expenses declined $40 million or 3.9% year-over-year primarily driven by reductions in employee costs as well as marketing expenses.
Turning to Slide 15 Business Markets Group.
Overall BMG revenues declined $39 million or 4.1% from pro forma second quarter 2010.
In the second quarter 2011 strategic revenues represented almost 48% of BMG revenues and grew by $13 million or 3% to $442 million on the strong MPLS unit growth that Glen referenced earlier.
The strategic revenue increase was offset by legacy revenue decline from second quarter 2010 by $25 million or 6.5% to $362 million driven by declines in local revenue.
Data integration revenues decreased $27 million or 18.6% to $118 million primarily resulting from lower CPE sales.
Our total segment expenses in BMG declined $30 million or 5.2% to $551 million from second quarter 2010 driven mainly by lower employee cost and lower CPE sales.
Turning to Slide 16.
Overall wholesale revenues declined $47 million from pro forma second quarter 2010 or 4.6%.
Strategic revenue grew $45 million which is 8.7% primarily driven by special access and private line transport resulting from increased sales of DS1s DS3s and Ethernet and fiber to the tower.
Our strategic revenue represented almost 58% of total wholesale revenues in the second quarter of 2011 up from 51% in pro forma second quarter 2010.
Legacy revenue declined $92 million or 18.2% driven by access and long-distance declines primarily resulting from competition product substitution and lower minutes of use.
As expected we also lost a few database customers that contributed to the decline as well.
Wholesale segment expense declined $6 million or about 2% mainly driven by lower employee costs and access volumes and rate declines.
On Slide 17 I'll briefly review Savvis's results from the second quarter.
Savvis generated revenue of $264 million a 19% increase from the same quarter a year ago driven primarily by strong managed services growth across key verticals of Consumer brands financial and media.
Their operating cash flow excluding special items grew 31% from $48 million in the second quarter a year ago to $63 million in second quarter 2011.
The operating cash flow margin excluding special items improved to 23.9% this quarter which is actually 27% excluding noncash comp from 21.6% a year ago.
Now turning to Slide 17 -- 18.
Our 2011 guidance excludes the effects of nonrecurring items; integration expenses associated with the Embarq acquisition; transaction and integration expenses associated with the Qwest acquisition as well as the Savvis acquisition; any changes in operating or capital plans; changes in regulation; and any future mergers acquisitions divestitures or other similar business transactions.
Please note 2011 full year guidance the first column in the slide reflects only CenturyLink results for first quarter 2011 combined with CenturyLink and Qwest results for second quarter 2011 and combined CenturyLink Qwest and Savvis for the remainder of the year.
For full year 2011 CenturyLink expects operating revenues to be $15.2 billion to $15.4 billion and diluted EPS to range from $1.60 to $1.70 per share.
Our capital expenditures will be between $2.35 billion and $2.5 billion and free cash flow of $2.9 billion to $3.1 billion.
For third quarter 2011 CenturyLink expects total revenues of $4.55 billion to $4.6 billion diluted earnings per share of $0.29 to $0.34 and free cash flow of $1.88 billion to $1.92 billion.
Additionally we expect fourth quarter diluted EPS to be within a similar $0.29 to $0.34 range as a reduction in seasonal expenses should offset revenue declines.
The sequential decline in diluted EPS expected in the third quarter is primarily due to a decline in voice and access revenues partially offset by an increase in high-speed Internet revenue and again seasonal increase in outside plant maintenance which we experience every year.
Please note that on this slide the second column entitled pro forma 2011 provides guidance as if Qwest and Savvis mergers were effective as of January 1 2011 and the company operated on a combined basis for the full year 2011.
We expect that our dividend payout ratio in 2011 will be approximately 50% of free cash flow assuming on a pro forma basis.
I want to do one thing for you and that's reconcile the previous guidance that we gave -- a couple of items that we gave related to previous guidance compared with current guidance on the pro forma 2011 amounts.
Our previous guidance for pro forma operating revenues and this basically included a full year of CenturyLink as well as Qwest but excluded Savvis was $17.6 billion to $17.8 billion.
Our current guidance has increased to $18.5 billion to $18.8 billion of revenue.
That guidance however includes Savvis.
So Savvis is a little bit over $1 billion of the increase partially offset by about a $90 million decline in CPE that we expect currently as well as other revenue declines of approximately $60 million.
And those are primarily in local rate changes that we made in the inmate business and certain other items.
Also to reconcile our pro forma diluted earnings per share to previous guidance again including CenturyLink and Qwest on a pro forma basis for full year 2011 was $2.55 to $2.65.
Our current guidance is reduced to $1.50 to $1.60.
Basically to reconcile the difference about $0.78 of this is related to the purchase price amortization or customer list amortization that we discussed earlier related to the Qwest transaction.
About $0.20 of the decline is related to the Savvis acquisition which basically the entire $0.20 there is related to noncash items depreciation and amortization including the amortization of their customer base.
About $0.03 decline related to CPE net of the revenue net of the expected cost of CPE typically and the margin that we experienced there.
And then the other revenue declines are about $0.06 a share.
So that kind of gets you down -- gets you from the midpoint of our previous guidance of $2.62 a share to the midpoint of our current guidance of $1.55 a share.
Turning to Slide 19.
In the earnings release today we included estimated impacts that the application of business combination accounting rules are expected to have on the combined companies' financial results for third quarter '11 and full year 2011.
Again all of these items are noncash.
And please see the earnings release and related 10-Q filing that we'll make this week for further information.
Regarding the capital structure and use of free cash flow as we've stated the board will consider the use of free cash flow next year as we more fully realize the expected merger synergies and see further progress with the merger integration of Qwest and Savvis.
We've also indicated that maintaining investment grade credit metrics is important to us and accordingly we expect that during 2011 and 2012 we will reduce debt by between $1.5 billion and $2 billion.
And I might add that on a pro forma basis we reduced debt about $700 million this year excluding the $2 billion that we borrowed associated with the Savvis transaction.
This concludes our prepared remarks for the day.
At this time I'll ask the operator to provide further instructions for the question-and-answer portion of our call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Barden.
So I guess I mean obviously the stock came off pretty hard today because of some of the uncertainty around the trying to sort out what was Savvis and what was core business changes and what was going incrementally right.
But I guess -- so is the take away here that we're adding about $1 billion of Savvis revenue that's a little conservative relative to what the Street was expecting for them to deliver for the year.
If you could comment on whether there are eliminations in that and whether you're just trying to maybe take a swag at being more conservative on that.
That’d be number one.
And then number 2 it sounds like if I look at these earnings per share impacts it looks like you're taking about $50 million of kind of EBITDA out of the old guidance for lower CPE sales and some new contracts.
But at the same time you're not really adding anything back for any potential improvement in integration for Savvis relative to that $275 million EBITDA number which looks very much in line with the Street.
So could you kind of reconcile some of the conservatism that you seem to be baking into the Savvis outlook and your kind of underlying estimates for the core business and kind of how we should think about whether -- is this business getting better or is this business getting worse? Because I think that's what the market is trying to figure it out relative to what you told us last quarter.
So David let me take a shot at it and come back with a question if I don't completely answer you.
So in Savvis our intent here in no way is to really take down their guidance from what they had previously given or from kind of where the street is on a consensus basis.
We do have about $1 million a month of revenue that will go away with respect to Savvis from adjustments related to revenue that they have deferred.
Probably 75% to 80% of that also is deferred expense that will go away as well and there are some minor eliminations between CenturyLink and Savvis that'll occur but nothing really significant.
So really if you look at Savvis I mean again we're not really -- their previous guidance was $1 030 000 000 to $1 060 000 000 of revenue and we really feel very very comfortable with the range in fact really kind of the upper end of that range.
Also with respect to their EBITDA margins they were -- if you exclude the noncash comp that they exclude and get to their adjusted EBITDA that David [ph] talked about previously they were about 27% in the second quarter which is about where they expected to be.
So they really had a good quarter.
Their bookings were good.
Their backlog of bookings continues to be strong and that does not include any positive impact that we may get from the combination associated with any cross-sell opportunities.
We've not built any of that in.
So that should pretty well cover Savvis.
In terms of -- why don't you reiterate the part of the question I haven't answered now and I'll see if we can get… Well I guess if we're feeling pretty good about Savvis and we're subtracting all the higher end of estimates of Savvis out of our core estimates for the existing guidance it seems to suggest that the underlying business just isn't doing as well as we thought it was going to do a quarter ago.
And is your message that things just aren't going well? Or are there some offsets here that we should be thinking about? So the message basically from a revenue standpoint is that basically CPE revenues are going to be down compared with what we expected a quarter ago when we gave our pro forma 2011 guidance.
And the CPE declines will be from a revenue standpoint about $90 million which equates to about a $0.03 a share in EPS.
The reason it's down is associated with 2 things.
One the government sales -- sales to the government agencies has been down which basically we think is probably attributable to the budget issues that the government's been going through.
Other CPE sales we seem to be having as many sales as we've had in the past.
However those sales seem to be at lower average amounts.
So the sales folks are still selling CPE.
They're still selling about the same number of transactions that they had a year ago.
It's just that the transaction sizes are down.
The other revenue declines of about $60 million or so which really equates to again about $0.06 a share in EPS is really just due to again some rate changes that we've made to access rates intrastate access also to the local rate the local access line losses as well as minutes of use primarily minutes of use on the access side.
So I guess I'd have to say to sum it up we're a little bit more -- we're coming off the guidance that we gave last quarter slightly on our revenue and EPS but most of it most of the revenue side really relates to CPE.
Most of the EPS side really relates to kind of the legacy business more or less and legacy revenues.
And so I guess my last question is related to -- so the revenue slide is a little bit more than we expected but we didn't have what you guys are calling operating cash flow guidance before.
We can't really compare whether your outlook for maybe the cost side of the equation is more optimistic relative to what your previous expectation was because we can't compare what it was before to what it is now.
Overall are you optimistic about how your -- ability to track to these revenue incremental revenue declines on a cost perspective it can be done? Or is this going to drop right down to the EBITDA expectation as well? Well some of that is really dropping down to the EBITDA expectations as well in the guidance that we're giving.
And the reason one of the reasons we decided to give operating cash flow guidance is because we think that on a longer-term basis it'll be easier for you guys to track that and it doesn't vary because of -- like free cash flow does because of changes in capital expenses expenditures from quarter-to-quarter and things like that.
So I think that we think we can reduce some of the expenses associated with the revenue declines.
But I'm not saying that we can get all the way there.
So there will be some deterioration in EBITDA in the latter half of the year.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi.
Three things.
I also had a question on the guidance.
First just looking at the current guidance excluding Savvis in the first half of the year you're increasing it by about $300 million.
Savvis adds about $500 million.
You talked about $150 million of pressure from CPE and other.
Can you talk about what the remainder $140 million pressure would come from? Also looking at your prior guidance you were thinking about exiting the year at about 2% to 3% revenue decline in 4Q.
How do you think about that right now? And if I look at your year-end guidance for revenues and guidance for third quarter the implied guidance for 4Q actually looks for a nice sequential increase.
Can you talk about where that's going to come from? It's both on the revenue side and EBITDA side.
Okay.
Batya I may have to clarify but let me answer one part of the question first.
On the last call we indicated that we felt like when we got to fourth quarter our revenue decline fourth quarter of 2011 and this excludes Savvis would be about -- to the fourth quarter 2010 on a pro forma basis would be about 3%.
With the additional revenue declines that we're building into the revised guidance basically we now think that will be about a little less than 4.5%.
So but and the changes there basically about a $70 million change -- or increased decline rather the CPE is $30 million of that and again that's lower margin revenue and other legacy revenue declines is about $40 million of that.
And that's made up of just a combination of items.
So again fourth to fourth now versus the 3% we talked about last quarter we think it's more like 4.5% but just about half of that is really related to CPE.
So did I get your question with that? Because you said guidance excluding Savvis increasing about $300 million now.
I'm a little confused with that part again.
$300 million is the increase in guidance but Savvis adds about $500 million of revenues in the second half.
That's offset by $150 million pressure from CPE and other.
Where is the remainder pressure coming from? So Savvis is about -- I mean Savvis is about $500 million in the last half of the year and I guess what I've explained is about -- yes I think it's rounding Batya to get to the $300 million.
Okay.
Can you talk about the trends for 4Q? Should we expect some sequential improvements both on the revenue side and EBITDA side? On the -- we'll continue to see some decline on the revenue side but again the decline on the revenue side will be offset by lower expenses because some of the seasonal expenses that we typically incur in the third quarter will go away.
So again on an EPS standpoint we're expecting fourth quarter to be approximately the same as third quarter.
So the decline in expenses from third to fourth should pretty much offset any legacy declines in revenue that we have from third to fourth such that on an EPS basis it should be neutral.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery.
Glen we talked about use of free cash flow and considering options next year as well as a focus on deleveraging.
Do I take it from that that you're unlikely to make any major acquisitions over the next 18 months or so? Obviously you've done a lot here in the recent past but there are certainly questions out there about your interest in looking at other opportunities.
So if you could comment on your appetite for acquisitions large or small.
And then Stewart just a clarification on the amortization changes.
I think you've noted this is not final.
Just talk about any sort of potential volatility around that.
And also around just how that flows 2011 to 2012 and beyond what's the sort of -- is it a straight-line type amortization or does it -- is there an accelerated component? Simon regarding the acquisitions right now our focus is really on integrating -- we really completed now the Embarq integration for all practical purposes.
We're now focused on Qwest and Savvis and the integration processes there.
And that's really what we're about right now.
We don't know of any large acquisitions opportunities that we would be interested in out there today.
So I don't think we'll be -- there's nothing that we know of at least that we would be looking at.
It’d have to be something extremely attractive extremely good price that clearly could drive shareholder value and I don't know what that would be today.
So our focus right now is strictly on the integration work and really executing our business plans.
Yes.
Simon with respect to the amortization so the actual amortization and depreciation in the second quarter was about $291 million.
And you can annualize that but it will be declining somewhat because at least where we are now and again we're not final we are using the sum of the years digits method to amortize the customer base that is allocated to the RMG group and the BMG group.
But the wholesale -- the part that's allocated to wholesale we’re amortizing straight-line at this point.
That may change because we are still looking at this.
So about $7.5 billion was allocated to the customer relationships.
And again we hope to have this finalized pretty much by the end of the third quarter.
But we have I guess until sometime next year to get it finalized.
But we're working with the appraiser to try to get it final.
We felt like we had better information than we did at the end of first quarter when we originally gave our guidance on this.
So we felt like though that even though we weren't final we really needed to reflect the most current thinking.
We don't think there'll be material changes for the day but there probably will be some changes.
Our next question comes from Phil Cusick.
I wonder if we could hit a couple of things.
First on the Qwest high-speed losses can you go into a little bit what happened there and how you've addressed it? Phil I'll ask Karen to address that for you.
In terms of the high-speed losses what the situation is at hand is that we've had good inwards.
However we want to change the quality of mix of the customers to less standalone.
And what we're doing is we’re rolling out some new bundling programs that we can improve our product attachment rate because we all know that churn’s better the more product attachment rate you have to a customer.
So essentially that's it in a nutshell.
Okay.
Was there incremental competition during the quarter that you're now addressing or was it just sort of steady and then… No.
I would say from a competition standpoint from a price point not a lot of change.
There might be pockets here and there but nothing extraordinary.
I would say from an advertising standpoint they did go hard after the change the conversion the acquisition.
So not handing your customer off to an unknown [ph] company like CenturyLink we've combated that with really some good I think competitive positioning and advertising and our brand advertising rolls our here in the next couple of weeks.
So other than that there's not been massive pricing change.
It really is about the standalone versus a bundle customer mix.
Okay.
And so you said the marketing rolls out on a couple of weeks the expectation for an improvement in the third quarter is that sort have been demonstrated so far or that's the expectation based on new marketing? Actually we're pleased with changes that we've made in terms of looking at going after high propensity churn customers and adding product as well as our approach.
In terms of our new go-to-market that we rolled out the response -- our response rates are much improved when you look at sequential quarter-over-quarter.
We feel good about that.
It's just the mix of the customer that we want to get more product attachment on.
Okay.
And then separately guys can you talk a little bit about the Qwest enterprise business? You haven't really addressed that on the integration.
How are you thinking about it as it relates to Savvis and then the rest of the business addressable market? Well Bill just one other thing on what Karen was saying just a reminder that our gross sales increased year-over-year on HSI.
So it's more of a churn issue as we talk about on any -- not a competitive issue necessarily as much as a churn issue on the a stand-alone HSI we expect higher churn and we really saw it.
That's what happens in these Qwest markets.
Regarding enterprise we -- enterprise remains steady during the quarter.
They actually increased quarter-over-quarter a little higher in the second quarter than it was the first and sequentially as far as revenues.
We believe that the combination is really going be strong with Qwest the cross selling with Qwest and Savvis.
We've already begun customers bids.
There’s some -- a great amount of interest in the cloud product and with the Savvis customer a great amount of interest in the network capabilities that CenturyLink brings.
So we're very optimistic that we're going to see revenue synergies here.
Of course we have not forecast any of those but in initial [indiscernible] customers as well as our sales leaders we're seeing a lot of optimism in what's expected there.
So I think the combination as we expected with the network and the cloud product hosting product that Savvis brings is going to be very effective.
And our next question comes from Scott Goldman.
Also a couple of questions.
I guess a different question on guidance.
If you look at your CapEx guidance previous to current where the difference would really be layering in Savvis.
It looks like you're bringing guidance up by about $250 million to $300 million which I think is a little bit more than what Savvis was guiding for the full year.
So wonder if you could talk about what's involved with the CapEx increase beyond Savvis.
And within that are there expectations? Have you guys made any decisions on bringing IPTV into the Qwest markets? It's really pretty much rounding.
I mean maybe the guidance is up $50 million or so related to the legacy CenturyLink but it's -- look at CapEx from Savvis.
Theirs is basically up to $240 million or so.
So it's pretty much rounding I think that's getting us… Okay.
So no change to the fiber to the cell or IPTV plans from what you guys have talked about previously? No.
We're still in the midst of the fiber to the cell and fiber to the node programs.
Those are unchanged from our discussion last quarter.
We still expect to get fiber to about 6 000 cell sites this year.
We'll have additional cell sites that we'll build next year as well as well as probably in 2013 and fiber to the node will continue to be on track there.
I'll let Glen address any IPTV.
Yes.
Just a little follow-up there probably the $50 million or so you talked -- it's more capacity side in the Qwest market.
We see opportunities there to add capacity that could generate revenue opportunities for us.
So a little more aggressive there in a few markets where they've built up had partial build-outs haven't finished build outs in some markets.
So I think we'll be looking at additional capacity opportunities there for sliding a little bit -- talking about the $50 million increase or so there of what Savvis will bring to the table.
Regarding IPTV as I mentioned earlier we're having good results in our markets overall.
For competitive reasons we won't talk say too much about what we're doing but I do think we'll be looking to roll to begin build out in at least one Qwest market by year-end buildout of IPTV products roll out sometime next year.
So that's kind of our view and again we’re looking to a great extent like success base we continue to see success in the CenturyLink markets that we have in the first build out of the Qwest we see continued success.
There is demand in the market.
There's no question.
There's demand for this product in the market.
It's a quality product.
We think it competes well with cable.
Actually our customers on our surveys said it's a better product than what cable has in most cases.
So we're confident.
It's just a matter of significant plant situations plant conditions loop shortening opportunities as far as the economics of building out in the Qwest markets.
Okay.
And then if I could follow-up the Phil's question just on the Qwest high-speed Internet churn.
I guess it just didn't make entire sense.
I understand you had good inwards but you're seeing churn from these standalone broadband customers.
Is that -- what would cause them to churn as you guys focus more on bundles? Did you try and raise pricing on the standalone broadband to encourage them to move to bundles and that's what caused them to leave? Or is something else that caused that churn to pick up there? No no.
If you just look at your churn your profile of your high-speed customer it's a customer that has another product say a double play or a triple play or a standalone customer.
Your standalone customers just have a higher churn 23 basis points higher.
And so therefore if you get a higher mix of your stand-alone you're going to have more churn.
So our objective is to take those standalone customers who are good customers they just have higher churn right than a bundled customer and try to get them into a bundle.
But we have not done any price increases or such.
Okay.
So I apologize for beating this one down.
So did churn within those customers pick up meaningfully from prior quarters and that's why we saw a bit of weakness in the HSI adds? And if you could give us any sense for what percentage of Qwest subscribers are standalone broadband subscribers? We're not going to give you the percent but yes it was prior higher standalone sales prior to close and it does have higher churn.
So as Glen said earlier our inwards this second quarter were strong.
It was more of a churn issue and the churn issue was caused by a higher mix of stand-alones than we anticipated.
As well as promotions rolling off as well.
I think that had something to do with it.
Our next question comes from Chris Larsen.
I just wanted to follow up on a couple of things.
First if I can characterize it seems like just all the EPS changes it's just that $0.09 that's operational.
And secondly you gave some pro forma figures in the beginning about 5% revenue declines.
Those pro forma figures do those include the eliminations or is that 5% excluding the eliminations on a year-over-year decline? Yes it includes the elimination so it's basically what we would expect to report.
Okay.
And then you mentioned some price changes some of it on minutes of use.
But you also mentioned the inmate business.
What specifically was going on with the inmate business that you are lowering prices there? Not really lowering prices on the inmate side.
We had one competitive bid situation with a current customer that we have that we lost and expect to churn off in the second half of the year and transition to the new provider there.
The price -- the intrastate access changes that really actually related to the approval process that we went through with respect the Qwest acquisition.
One of the states required us to reduce intrastate access rights a bit.
And lastly a lot of the focus obviously is on things that seem a little bit worse.
But we did see that access lines got a little bit better.
What specifically Karen do you think is driving the improvement in access line changes? Is it anything that you've done in the Qwest territories or is this across the board or is this some better housing dynamics perhaps in the old Embarq markets that are helping you with the access line declines getting 80 basis points better than they were a year ago? It's driven by better -- just less outs.
From a go-forward standpoint that is our objective is to improve the bundle with voice or other products.
But right now -- or video.
But right now it's just less outs.
The ins are still down year-over-year but they're improving but I wouldn't say a massive improvement there.
It's really about the disconnects being less.
I had one more question.
Stewart you had said you're continuing with a fiber to the node for the home build outs in this Qwest territory.
The Qwest have been doing about 1 million a year homes.
Is that still what you're targeting this year for fiber to the node? Yes it is.
We're continuing with the program that they had.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins.
First question I had was can you talk a little bit about in the quarter maybe how the Qwest assets did relative to the Century just in a little bit more depth and maybe a sense as you look at the revisions to guidance it sounds like the access side was more on the Qwest side? Is that true on the CPE front as well? And then the other question I just had was with regards to the questions that you're wrestling with in terms of finalizing the intangible amortization.
Just as I think back through a series of mergers that we've got to observe over the course of time it seems like that's been -- once the deal is closed and the books are closed it's become a pretty final number.
We haven't seen a lot of movement in what the companies have guided or produced once the deal is closed on an intangible basis.
Is there something that's different or unique about your circumstances with the way the Qwest acquisition was structured or the way the Savvis deal was structured that's creating a little bit more of that uncertainty or question over what the final numbers will look like? No Mike really what we tried to do is estimate the amount that would be allocated to customer base and the amortization to be pretty much in line with what we did with respect to the Embarq and the way the purchase price was allocated.
And I guess what we've subsequently found out after getting an appraiser in and going through the appraisal process with them is it looks like the accounting professions will actually change their process somewhat because if you -- we've gone through and listed out a number of transactions that have happened over the last 3 or 4 years and the amount allocated to the customer base seems to be increasing from about 10% or so of the purchase price that we used in the Embarq transaction to about 30% to 35% of the purchase price in more recent transactions.
So I think that's basically what's happening there so it's nothing structurally different about the Qwest transaction.
I think it's just more or less a change it seems like in the appraisers' approach to valuing the customer base.
I might talk a little bit about the synergy issue.
We anticipate that we rolled out our -- talk about the operational synergies the $575 million.
That was back in early part of 2010.
Over the past 12 months Qwest took out a huge amount of cost out of the business between the time we were estimating our synergies.
We're still saying we'll hit our targets in spite of all the cost they took out.
But it is a tougher hill when they took out so much of what we had initially counted as synergies ourselves.
They took that out of the business.
So we still think we'll -- we're confident we'll hit our synergy number but they did a good job reducing cost over the last 12 months before we closed.
Yes.
And with respect to the revenue decline Mike the -- half of the decline really or a little better than half is related -- or about half is really related to CPE.
Most of that is in the BMG side the segment that basically sells to larger business customers.
So that's where most of that CPE revenue decline is occurring.
The other legacy revenue declines are -- there's not much difference between the amount that we're experiencing at the legacy CenturyLink and the legacy Qwest there.
I'd say that's basically split pretty much equally.
And can you give us a recap of where you stand with the regulatory side with high cost federal USFs switched access and then your cost of access in terms of trying to understand what the implications of the reform proposal that you signed onto would mean for your financials over time? Mike I'll start out.
Basically the -- we do support the plan.
We don't think the status quo is good for us for us or our customers.
The communications environment is changing rapidly either the technology shifts and evolving customer demand.
So we think this is a good plan.
The plan's been rolled out it's not perfect but it does represent a rational compromise proposal that we believe makes significant strides towards reforming several critical elements that will ultimately be good for consumers and for the companies and the marketplace.
We'll make some meaningful short-term concessions but we think ultimately they'll provide long-term stability and predictability related to Universal Service support and inter-carry [ph] the compensation payments.
The transitional develop -- transitions developed in the plan are aggressive but we believe they're certainly manageable for us and the first of several steps to reduce switched access could begin in January if approved but there is a phase in approach and given the accelerating declines of intrastate switched access -- I mean some of which we've talked about today already there’s reasons for our guidance changing some.
We view the transition really ultimately as being really needed as a stabilizer in minutes of use and in revenues going forward.
Stewart do you want to address any..
Yes and on the USF at switched access I have to go pull that to be specific.
But I think as I recall on a pro forma basis USF and access was about 7% of total revenues and I think about 3% of that was USF if I remember right 4% access.
And do you have a sizing of how much the termination costs are that you pay? So I think the premise was that Qwest was in a significantly different position on the inbound versus outbound of terminating access revenue and costs relative to what you or Embarq might have been at in your heritage operations.
So do you have a sense of what that cost number is today as we try to think through the different moving parts from the proposed framework? No.
I'll tell you that's something we'll try to get and maybe try to have.
As the new access and broadband plan moves to the FCC we can try to give you more color maybe on what our access costs are relative to our access revenue and what any changes that are proposed might result in.
Our next question comes from Michael McCormack.
Stewart can you just give us a little more color? I mean just looking at the Business Markets group versus wholesale it clearly looks like you've had some movement of Qwest's formerly Qwest business markets revenue into wholesale.
I think that's what I'm seeing here but some clarity on that would be great.
And then in data integration the pro forma 2010 number looks a lot like data integration of Qwest historical which had been tracking from 145 into 170 at Q4.
And now obviously a number that's much lower than that.
So just trying to get a sense I know you mentioned in the release there's just some pressure there but trying to get a sense for exactly what that is.
And lastly on use of cash I mean obviously your stocks are down fairly significantly right now.
It just seems with an after-tax cost of equity with this dividend yield of 8.3% that  doing something sooner rather than later on the stock repurchase might make some more sense.
So Mike there's really no switch between -- or no reallocation between BMG and wholesale markets in terms of revenue.
Basically there were some -- we're basically allocating customers to the BMG group and to the RMG group and there were some -- RMG picked up some of the BMG customers and some of the smaller customers some of the state government customers using the local model in the RMG group might be closer to.
BMG picked up some of the larger enterprise customers that RMG had legacy CenturyLink RMG.
But we're basically doing that division similar to the way Qwest has done it in the past on a customer basis.
With respect to wholesale though there's no real change there and no movement of customers from any segment to wholesale or from wholesale to other segments.
Just sort of looking back at the Qwest second quarter reported results and business markets group is over $1 billion run rate and you’ve got 961.
I would have thought that adding Embarq and to a lesser extent legacy CenturyTel would have had a more positive impact.
So again there's very few customers that we moved over to BMG from RMG.
I can go back Mike and try to get that for you to basically be able to talk you through that.
We can take it offline that's fine.
I mean if you look at the 3 months the -- in BMG basically we only had $67 million of revenue if you look at second quarter a year ago in legacy CenturyLink.
So most of the -- and so that was basically what was moved from legacy CenturyLink over to the BMG segment.
Yes Mike some of that could be elimination of intercompany revenue too as well as elimination of some of the deferred revenue.
Some of that was allocated to wholesale as well.
We can get the details and get that to you so you can reconcile that.
Okay.
And on data integration turning around? In terms of data integration and the reason we're missing that again it's really -- most of it is on the BMG segment and really most of it and as far as we can tell and Chris can tell is really due to government spending slowing down on CPE which is what the data integration services primarily are as well as just the smaller average deals that they've obtained -- that they've sold this year.
Again the indication is that they've sold about the same number as they have in the past but the average size of each transaction seems to be smaller than they experienced last year.
Also if you look at our guidance BMG had a big fourth quarter last year in terms of data integration revenue and again we've scaled our guidance back because we really don't think we'll get to the same fourth quarter again of one-time revenue associated with the data integration that Qwest had in the fourth quarter last year in their BMG group.
And is it related at all to a change in the government's view on how quickly or whatever you're going to do on the networks contract? I don't think it has anything to do with that.
I think it -- the indications are it's just basically slower movement from the government and we're attributing some of it to basically just the debt ceiling issue and basically the government slowly spending down to wait to see what transpired there.
Okay.
And on use of cash? Yes.
I'll just tell Mike obviously we think our stocks -- I personally believe it's an amazing buy right now.
We'd likely buy it back.
We are committed to buying back or to reducing our debt by $1.5 billion to $2 billion over the next 2 years and we'll just have to look at stock buybacks.
We really don't plan to do anything before early next year.
Anyway we take a look through the rest of this year.
The -- I'm looking at again our buyback program use of our free cash flow.
But it's certainly a consideration for us especially with the stock price where it is now.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
In closing CenturyLink we believe had a solid financial result for the quarter improving top line revenue trends strong cash flows.
We are also pleased to have closed the Savvis acquisition.
And we're looking forward making solid progress integrating Qwest and Savvis in the months ahead.
The last few months have been truly transformational for CenturyLink and we believe we are well-positioned to provide customers the innovative products and service they need.
I'm confident we'll continue to see solid growth in the months ahead and create long-term shareholder value.
We appreciate your participation in our call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in the weeks and months ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Syed and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's third quarter 2011 results released earlier this afternoon.
Unless otherwise noted in the press release or in our remarks and related materials this afternoon the third quarter results discussed in the press release and during this call relate to CenturyLink including Savvis from July 15 2011 and prospectively thereafter.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we'll open the call for question and answer.
On Slide 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for fourth quarter and full year 2011 the integration of Embarq Qwest and Savvis and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Your host for today's call is Glen Post on Slide 3 Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
And also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through November 9 2011 and accessible by webcast through November 23 2011.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of November 2 2011 and should be considered valid only as of that date regardless of the date heard or reviewed.
With that I'll turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss CenturyLink's third quarter 2011 performance and share our strategic areas of focus heading into the months ahead.
I also have with us today our business unit heads.
They will be available for questions as needed.
We have Chris Ancell who's over our BMG Group Business Markets Group; Bill Cheek over our wholesale Markets Group; and Jim Ousley over at Savvis operations.
Our results were solid for the quarter as we continue to invest in key areas of growth meet our integration objectives and build positive momentum in a number of areas across our business in what continues to be a challenging economy and very competitive environment.
Let's turn to Slide 5.
Third quarter diluted earnings per share excluding special items were $0.34 at the top end of our guidance and reflect the full noncash impact of purchase accounting rules related to the Embarq Qwest and Savvis transactions.
Also included here is pro forma adjusted diluted earnings per share which were $0.61 for the third quarter and exclude certain noncash purchase accounting adjustments.
We believe this adjusted diluted EPS figure provides a better view of the performance of our business.
Stewart will provide more detail on the methodology for this calculation shortly.
Operating revenues for the quarter were $4.596 billion on a consolidated basis compared to $1.748 billion in the third quarter 2010.
The increase is due to the $2.73 billion and $223 million in revenue contributions we've realized with the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions respectively.
Our strategic revenues grew 5% to $2 billion driven by growth in our high-speed Internet customer base while our legacy revenues for the third quarter are $2.21 billion a decrease of 11.2% from pro forma third quarter 2010.
We expect strategic revenues to soon exceed 50% of total revenues.
We maintained our track record of strong free cash flow generating $891 million for this quarter ahead of expectations.
Our cash flow continued to support our financial strength and provides us with the flexibility we need to capitalize on opportunities to optimize the customer experience and maximize shareholder value.
To take advantage of these opportunities and promote the long-term growth of our business we are focused on investing in 4 primary growth drivers: broadband expansion and enhancement; our fiber-to-the-tower initiatives; Managed Hosting and cloud services; and CenturyLink's IPTV offering Prism TV.
We believe that these growth drivers will change our overall growth trajectory over the next few years.
Slide 6 offers more detail on each of these growth drivers and they specifically apply to the quarter.
We continue to make significant investments in the expansion and enhancement of our broadband network.
We achieved a net increase of 57 000 high-speed Internet customers this quarter a substantial increase over the 12 000 we had in the second quarter of 2011.
We continue to make progress in developing and expanding our fiber-to-the-node infrastructure.
We've also enabled over 330 central offices now with Ethernet over copper capability targeted toward of course the SMB market.
To meet the increasing data transport needs of wireless carriers we have also been working to complete fiber build as part of our fiber-to-the-tower initiative.
In the last quarter we made substantial additions to our fiber-to-the-tower infrastructure.
The integration of Savvis has given us new opportunities in Managed Hosting and cloud services which represents one of the most attractive growth areas in our sector today.
We've already seen initial success marketing the Savvis offerings across our business segments and are investing in the expansion of the Savvis data center capacity to meet growing demands for these services.
Finally we're pleased to report that CenturyLink Prism TV our IPTV offering is performing well in the markets where it's currently available.
We expect to generate strong sales trends and additional markets in the future.
We are optimistic about our Prism TV products and its impacts on future performance.
Moving on to our operating segment highlights let's begin with Slide 7.
The Regional Markets segment generated $2.2 billion in total revenues.
This is down 6.1% for the total revenues generated pro forma third quarter of 2010 due primarily to the continued decline in legacy services compared to last year.
Total strategic revenues for the segment were up 2.5% from pro forma third quarter 2010 and up 5.3% when normalized for allocations between strategic and legacy classification and certain one-time items coming in at $720 million revenue for the quarter.
For the full quarter of implementation of our local operating model and more aggressive direct response to marketing strategy we saw strong momentum on high-speed Internet sales in legacy Qwest markets.
We reported a reduction in access line loss of more than 20% this quarter compared with the pro forma third quarter and more than 15% sequentially.
We also successfully reduced our access line loss rate for the trailing 12 months to 7.1% down from 7.8% in the third quarter of last year.
We were encouraged by our 25% growth in Prism TV sales sequentially quarter-over-quarter driven by expansion in new markets and increased sales channel focus.
We're seeing continued success under our fiber-to-the-node initiative with 1 million homes to be added by year-end 2011 for a total of 5.75 million homes with fiber-to-the-node access.
In the Business Markets we continued to generate sales in strategic data services in legacy CTL markets and have seen an improvement in sales productivity in legacy Qwest markets due to heavier focus on the SMB sector.
Shifting to the Business Markets Group.
We continued to drive sales generating $927 million of total revenues down 5.1% from total pro forma third quarter 2010.
We continued to benefit from our advances in high-bandwidth offerings although not yet offsetting the legacy revenue decline.
Total strategic revenues increased by 2.1% from pro forma third quarter of last year up to $443 million.
If you exclude the Low Speed Special Access revenue our strategic revenue increased by 6% quarter-to-quarter.
We exited the third quarter with a strong sales funnel.
We expect it will provide additional sales opportunities in the fourth quarter.
We've seen early success cross selling our Managed Hosting and cloud services as well as our advanced network services to business customers in the Savvis and Qwest legacy markets.
And we intend to capitalize on additional opportunities in future quarters.
We won our second large federal networks contract this year demonstrating our continued ability to serve out the federal government sector a long-term customer of CenturyLink now.
Finally we have strengthened our frontline sales team in an effort to drive additional business and increase our future revenue stream.
Let's move on to our Wholesale Markets Group on Slide 8.
Strategic revenues were up by 9.1% to $573 million offset by legacy declines.
This solid third quarter growth was driven by our expansion of wireless carrier bandwidth and Ethernet sales as part of our ongoing initiatives to broaden our wholesale client base.
Improving our Ethernet and data transport services remains a top priority for us as we continue to win contracts from wireless and other wholesale customers.
As I mentioned earlier we also continued to make progress on the fiber-to-the-tower buildout initiative including nearly 1 000 fiber build this quarter to bring our total up to nearly 8 200 fiber connected towers today.
We have plans to complete an additional 2 000 sites by the end of this year.
The fiber-to-the-tower initiative continues to strengthen our wireless data transport capacity and we remain focused on meeting the growing data transport needs of wireless carriers in 2011 and beyond.
As we outlined in our press release Savvis will now be reported as the fourth operating segment.
Stewart will provide more detail in a few minutes.
Overall Savvis had a solid third quarter as the demand for Managed Hosting and cloud solutions continues to grow.
Operating revenues for the segment were $223 million between July 15 to closing date of the Savvis transaction at September 30 while pro forma operating revenues were $260 million an 8.3% increase from pro forma third quarter of last year.
Savvis continued to see strong demand for Savvis Symphony cloud solution suite as cloud compute revenue continues to increase led by steady demand for private dedicated solutions.
While bookings in the third quarter were slightly lower than the last quarter Savvis experienced good traction and attracting new customers to the business with particular success in the healthcare industry.
The global economic environment is contributing to a challenging sales cycle across all verticals but demand has not slowed.
We remain confident that Savvis would finish 2011 strong.
We expect to see an increase in bookings in the fourth quarter over the third quarter.
Managed Hosting and cloud services are important to the future of our industry and we are committed to investing in this key growth driver.
As part of this commitment we are expanding our data center footprint to 5 cities to bring our total sellable square footage to approximately 2 million square feet by the end of this year.
As shown on Slide 9 we continued to make progress on our integration objectives and hit all our key milestones and synergy targets.
We remain on track to meet our 2011 and 2012 integration operating and synergy goals.
We substantially completed the integration of the Embarq and plan to fully complete it by the end of this year.
We are also on track to complete the conversion of our Qwest financial and HR systems by year-end 2011.
To provide a little more color on the Qwest integration on the financial basis we are on track to achieve synergies of $80 million to $100 million for 2011.
We expect to close the year at a run rate of $190 million to $200 million in terms of synergies.
And finally we expect to achieve an annual operating expense synergy run rate of $575 million from the Qwest acquisition over the next 3 to 5 years as well as a capital synergy number of about $50 million over the next 2 years.
Despite large cost reductions made by Qwest prior to closing of the transaction these synergy targets are in line with our initial projections and we are confident we will achieve all of them as planned.
Our acquisitions are steadily improving the performance of our business from both an operational and financial standpoint.
Once the integration process is complete we believe these acquisitions will provide us the scale and scope we need to act on compelling new opportunities for growth.
Our targeted annual run rate synergies from these 3 acquisitions total more than $1 billion once fully realized.
We are also creating new advantages in data supply and transport as a result of our recent transaction.
So far the 210 000 route miles of our new combined network have substantially expanded our footprint and granted us access us to new markets.
Also Qwest and Savvis have supplied us with a superb suite of products and services to serve business enterprise customers throughout the country.
These offerings combine the data centers that we acquired from the Qwest and Savvis transaction position us as a global leader in Managed Hosting and cloud services and provide us with compelling long-term growth aspects and cross-selling opportunities.
As I mentioned earlier CenturyLink Prism TV represents one of our 4 key growth drivers in our target markets.
Slide 11 lays out progress around Century Prism TV and our plans for this offering in the future.
While IPTV revenues are currently less than -- less central to our top line than other parts of our business.
Prism is having a material impact on line loss high-speed sales and product attach rates in the markets where we offer this service.
I'd like the draw your attention to a couple of highlights on the slide.
Over the past 12 months our Prism subscriber base has grown 103% with nearly 25% growth in the third quarter alone.
In terms of pull through of other services 70% of our Prism customers have a triple play and almost 50% of our Prism inwards are new customers with strong attachment rate to high-speed Internet and voice services.
As of September 30 there are approximately 54 000 Prism subscribers and the services are now available to 1 million households across 8 markets.
To achieve our goal of reaching 4.5 million to 5 million households by the end of 2015 we're planning to launch CenturyLink Prism TV in 2 additional markets in 2012 with additional launches planned for 2013 through 2015.
We do not expect capital spend for Prism TV to exceed $250 million annually between 2012 and 2015 and we anticipate that the service will become EBITDA positive across all launched markets by the end of 2015.
We're taking a very capital efficient approach to Prism deployment by leveraging existing network investments such as fiber-to-the-node to keep start-up capital costs for household passed under $200.
With that I'd like now to turn this call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Stew? Thank you Glen.
I'll take the next few minutes to review some of the financial highlights from this quarter and I'll then spend a few moments explaining and expanding on the guidance that we included in our earnings press release.
As Glen noted earlier we have begun to report pro forma adjusted diluted EPS a figure which calls out certain unique items that we believe will help you better understand our results and provide a clear picture of our underlying business.
Pro forma adjusted diluted EPS excludes most of the impact of noncash items on diluted earnings per share resulting from business combination accounting rules as others in our industry have done following large acquisitions.
Those items excluded are the noncash impact of amortization of intangibles and the noncash impact to interest expense of the assignment of fair value to debt outstanding related to the Embarq Qwest and Savvis transactions.
For third quarter 2011 our adjusted diluted EPS was $0.61.
Beginning with Slide 13 I will take you through our consolidated financial results.
In order to be more relevant I'll be reviewing the financial results on a pro forma basis as if Qwest and Savvis were fully included in the results for all periods.
As you can see we generated a strong operating revenues and cash flows during the quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.63 billion compared with third quarter 2010 pro forma operating revenues declined 4.6% from $4.86 billion a year ago.
Strategic service revenues for the third quarter were $2 billion up from $1.91 billion in pro forma third quarter 2010.
Legacy service revenues for the third quarter were $2.21 billion a decrease of 10.8% from the $2.48 billion in pro forma revenue in third quarter 2010.
Data integration revenues represented $166 million and other revenue consisting primarily of Universal Service Funds was $247 million.
Pro forma cash operating expenses declined about 1.7% compared to third quarter 2010 with synergy achievements and other cost reductions partially offset by the costs related to the additional rollout of Prism TV the write-off of certain previously capitalized IT projects related to the business combinations and other items outlined in the press release.
We continue to be proud of our strong operating cash flow generation which was $1.89 billion for the third quarter.
Our free cash flow generation which is defined as net cash provided by operating activities excluding special items less capital expenditures was $891 million this quarter and represents a decrease of about 8.6% from $969 million in pro forma third quarter 2010.
The decline in free cash flow was driven by an increase in capital expenditures of $110 million.
Now turning our discussion to our operating segments.
On Slide 14 as you all know last quarter we began reporting results for our Regional Markets Group Business Markets Group and Wholesale Markets Group.
This quarter we've also added Savvis as a discrete operating segment and we'll be discussing it as a separate segment as well.
The Regional Markets Group generated $2.22 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 6.1% over pro forma third quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues grew to $729 million in the quarter up 2.5% pro forma year-over-year.
Excluding certain one-time items and shifts in the allocation between strategic and legacy revenue categories during the third quarter the normalized growth rate for strategic revenue was 5.3%.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined $156 million or 9.7% from pro forma third quarter 2010.
Our data integration revenues for RMG declined $5 million or about 13.5%.
Our total segment expenses in RMG declined 3.4% to $1 billion from pro forma third quarter 2010.
Our expense reductions for the third quarter were mainly driven by synergy achievements that were partially offset by costs related to a rollout of Prism TV in additional markets during 2011.
Moving to Slide 15 our Business Markets Group generated $927 million in operating revenues during the third quarter which represented a decrease of 5.1% from pro forma third quarter 2010 and was a result of declines in legacy services which more than offset growth in our high-bandwidth broadband offerings.
Excluding the decline in data integration revenues the total percentage decline for the quarter was only 2.9%.
Third quarter strategic revenues increased by $9 million or 2.1% to $443 million from pro forma third quarter 2010 driven primarily by Ethernet and MPLS services.
Our legacy revenue for BMG declined from third quarter 2010 by $33 million while data integration revenues decreased $26 million or 16.3% primarily due to lower equipment sales opportunities.
Our total segment expenses in BMG declined by 1.2% to $570 million from pro forma third quarter 2010.
Moving to Slide 16 our Wholesale Markets Group generated $979 million in operating revenues a decrease of 3.2% from pro forma third quarter 2010 as access and long distance revenues continued to decline but were partially offset by the acceleration in wireless carrier bandwidth expansion during the quarter.
Strategic revenues for WMG grew to $573 million representing a 9.1% increase from third quarter 2010 primarily driven by continued data transport from wireless providers.
Our legacy revenues declined by $80 million or 16.5% to $406 million.
Our total segment expenses in WMG declined to $297 million from pro forma third quarter 2010.
Now turning to Slide 17 in our Savvis segment.
During its first quarter as a distinct operating segment Savvis generated $223 million in operating revenues and $260 million in pro forma operating revenues resulting -- representing an increase of 8.3% from pro forma third quarter 2010 revenues of $240 million.
This growth comes primarily from year-over-year increases of 22% in Managed Hosting and cloud services revenues 12% growth in hosting revenues and a slight decline in network services.
Savvis' operating expenses were $200 million in the third quarter compared to $189 million in pro forma third quarter 2010.
This increase of 5.8% is due to staffing and maintenance costs to drive Managed Hosting growth across sales consulting and operations as well as costs for data center expansions.
Now moving to Slide 18 which addresses our guidance for the remainder of year 2011.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 CenturyLink projects total revenues of $4.60 billion to $4.65 billion and operating cash flow between $1.87 billion and $1.92 billion.
For full year 2011 and the pro forma full year 2011 CenturyLink's previous guidance for operating revenues operating cash flow capital expenditures and free cash flow has not changed.
We are also providing additional guidance for pro forma adjusted diluted EPS for full year 2011 to be in the range of $2.68 to $2.72 and on a pro forma basis to be in the range of $2.65 to $2.69.
Pro forma adjusted diluted EPS for fourth quarter 2011 is expected to be in the range of $0.58 to $0.62.
This compares to $0.60 in the third quarter of this year.
We also continued to anticipate that our dividend payout ratio will be approximately 50% based on our previous pro forma free cash flow guidance of $3.4 billion to $3.6 billion.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I guess Stewart in the text of the result you guys stated you absorbed some significant costs related to storms that impacted the EBITDA which I do not believe you excluded from the adjusted EBITDA number.
If you could kind of walk us through that it would be helpful.
And then I guess the next question would be just on the larger issue of now that we've gotten to the resolution of the intercarrier comp and U.S.
effort that it looks like we're getting closer there and you look ahead to 2012 and 2013 do you guys see now or projecting potentially material impacts positive or negative to the cash flow outlook of the business? Yes.
So related to the storm expense no we did not exclude that as a special item in the third quarter.
We had about $8 million to $10 million of expenses in the third quarter.
We expect to have probably another $6 million of expenses related to storms in the fourth quarter.
Glen if you can address...
David on the FCC order we along with rest of the industry are really waiting on the order to be published.
It's basically a 500-page order.
So we expect to be it in a lot more detail and it will ultimately really determine our view of it.
But based on what we know today we believe the reforms they are purposing are manageable for us and that long-term our customers and the company will benefit from the newly created Connect America Fund.
Until we really have more detail though we aren't going to really project the impacts.
We will provide you more information when the order is published.
But right now we don't see any major impacts positive or negative is the way we view it right now.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just follow up guys one last one.
Just on the line performance.
The line losses improved pretty quickly relative to I think our expectations.
Are you attributing that to the management approach in the local markets? Obviously when the Embarq deal came through it was mostly in the larger markets where they had an impact.
Or is it the Prism TV or is it some other effect? Well it's not Prism TV Dave.
We don't have that in any of the Qwest markets an improvement for most part in the Qwest markets.
Our local operating model we think had a major impact.
Our go-to-market approach -- greater direct response marketing efforts that we've been successful in the smaller markets.
And a lot of you don't think that work in the larger markets we are proving that they do.
We do get good response from those.
And Karen may provide further detail later on the call but we feel good about the approach we're taking in these markets and it’s making a difference.
Our next question comes from Dave Coleman from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the guidance the change in the EPS guidance is that attributable just to the change in definition or is there any revised outlook on the operating fundamentals that's included in the updated EPS guidance? And then looking at the operating cash flow guidance that's unchanged but it would imply about $100 million sequential increase versus the 3Q run rate just to get to the midpoint of that guidance range.
So I'm just wondering how you get to that improvement if it's more towards the low end that we should be expecting.
And then just finally operationally you talked about cross-selling opportunities with Savvis and CenturyLink.
I was just wondering if you could expand on those comments and what kind of bookings you're seeing from legacy CenturyLink customers for like managed services and Colo? So Dave just from our guidance standpoint the change in the EPS basically it's really the -- effectively the guidance is the same as it was in the third quarter for the full year.
We basically are just changing to eliminate the effects of the acquisition accounting with respect to amortization of the customer base.
And the interest amortization that occurs as a result of the marking the debt to fair market value at the date of acquisitions.
So that's really -- no real fundamental changes in the business just to hopefully get some of the noise out of our EPS number related to the acquisition accounting.
From the standpoint of the operating cash flow improvement I mean we expect to get to somewhere around the midpoint basically.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just if I could interrupt for a second how does that -- how do you get to the midpoint is that going to be on revenue stronger revenues or OpEx reductions because if you just sort of assume 3Q operating cash flow for the fourth quarter you're at $7.8 billion? So I'm just wondering how you get to that $7.9 billion if you think you're going to get to the midpoint? Yes.
We are going to have to basically -- I'd like to get with you offline and just go through your numbers that you're looking at so we make sure that we're in sync.
I mean we're really expecting about the same level of operating cash flow that we were expecting into the third quarter.
There's really no significant change in the guidance that we're giving.
The false cost setting [ph] opportunities with Savvis and business customers the sales we've achieved so far have been relatively small but there's a lot of activity and we're seeing tremendous demand from our -- interest and demand from customers across our footprint with the BMG customers and also our small business customers already looking for hosting services.
So it's a lot of activity going on.
And also we're seeing activity on the Savvis side for the expanded network capabilities that CenturyLink brings.
So a lot of interest.
So it will be -- this won't have to indicate -- it's the long sales cycles for really large customers but we're seeing a lot of interest right now.
I'm very optimistic about the opportunity here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one follow-on.
You mentioned that 3Q bookings in the Savvis business were slightly lower but you expect 4Q bookings to be stronger than 3Q.
What gives you that confidence in the improved bookings outlook? Well I'll let Jim add to this but we saw a lot of slowdown in decision making by the financial institutions as reorganization in some of those non-res and some of those areas we expect to see decisions made in the fourth quarter that we thought were going to be happening in the third quarter.
And we're just seeing a continuum of strong demand.
Jim do you want to add anything? The other major things that's causing -- this decision making is taking longer because of the economic environment but also our deals are much larger now and thus the time to make the decision is dragging out.
So we had -- and that's it's a little lumpier.
We have big deals in the quarter that get push into the first next quarter.
So we're going to see a very strong fourth quarter in bookings and we're going to see bigger size orders both in the fourth quarter and going into next year.
And our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
First on Prism your thoughts on the Qwest that Burnhouse [ph] sets up there and can you give us some numbers around success-based capital -- I'm sorry around passing capital.
But could you give us a little more color on what are the costs on the success-based spaces and maybe some penetration data points in some of the early markets? And then lastly just for Stewart on the credit markets any thoughts given the current environment out there on your leverage targets and use of cash going forward? Mike this is Karen Puckett.
In terms of the Prism TV success base the capital Glen was talking about is capital all in of that usually about 20-plus percent is success based.
And in terms of I think you had a question on penetration we look at the maturity or the age of the market and we have benchmarks that improvement every 3 months over a year.
First we expect the market to be well over 10% second year in the high teens to low 20%.
Research Division</strong> Karen any expectations with respect to ARPU baked into your overall profitability expectation? We're experiencing -- in terms of our triple play ARPU right now we're experiencing about 160 ARPU and that will grow as we get more customers and are able to do things like advertising and such add more feature sets.
And Mike with respect to the credit markets if you look at trailing 12 months debt-to-EBITDA with leases we were about 2.6x debt to EBITDA without leases about 2.5x.
Our target is more in the low to mid-2 range.
We do continue to expect to pay back between $1.5 billion and $2 billion of debt in 2011 and 2012 of which we've paid back a little over $700 million at this point.
Research Division</strong> And the target payout ratio is still do you think 50% is the right thing to think about or should we think about something higher than that? I mean I think it's -- our board will review our dividend periodically but we are focused on retiring debt over time.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> The metrics when you look at broadband adds and line losses were much stronger than we expected.
Can you provide some sense of that strength that continued into October or have you seen any increased activity from cables? And when you look at margins it was a bit lower than we thought.
You mentioned some one-off item and I was wondering if you could talk about some of the underlying expense trends if there is more opportunity to cut cost there and if we should expect that to improve from here on.
Batya we couldn't the first part of your question.
You talked about the broadband adds the line losses  than expected.
We couldn't hear the next -- the rest of that.
Research Division</strong> Is the strength continued into October or have you seen any increased activity from the cable guys? Yes I would just say that the programs that we have in place are working well for us.
I think I just talk about the quarter for a moment in terms of our high-speed.
We're very pleased and proud of the team for just excellent execution.
The local model definitely is kicking in.
We're holding the general managers accountable for the performance in their market.
We put our new go-to-market in place.
The increase in the shift into direct mail direct response marketing to noncustomers and marketing into Tier 2 and Tier 3 markets have had made a difference.
We did get an incremental juice from the DTV NFL package.
They did a lot of promotion so we benefited from that pulled through some HSI on that as well as our brand campaign that's been out.
So that was some incremental juice that won't happen in fourth quarter.
So the programs will remain.
In fourth quarter we normally see HSI seasonality does slow down and also just focused on the continuation of the bundle.
And then in terms of just access line losses we just continued to improve there -- the outs continue to improve as well as in.
And Batya with respect to margins we did have some one-time expenses in the third quarter primarily around generally one-time expenses the storms again about $8 million or so.
But again we'll have some of that again in the fourth quarter.
We'll have about $6 million we think probably in the fourth quarter.
We also -- third quarter is a little bit heavier on maintenance and utilities as you're aware just with higher costs during the summer and from a utility standpoint higher utilization.
And also we're able to get maintenance done then.
In the fourth quarter we would expect the margins to be about the same as they were in the third quarter.
We're going to have a few expense increases in the fourth quarter about $17 million of so of which $15 million to $20 million really related to higher revenue along -- around Universal Service and potentially CPE that we expect to sell to customers.
And then we'll have wage increases for the union employees at Qwest that will take effect in the fourth quarter as well.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about what are the sort of the next buckets to come through? You talked about ramping it up to $190 million to $200 million by the end of year so is this network grooming? Is this headcount? What are the big projects in the near term? And then you've had a few months now with your Verizon Wireless relationship.
I'd be interested in your reflections on how that's going and how you see wireless as part of your overall portfolio? So Simon yes I mean just in the buckets between the third quarter and the fourth quarter we'll start to see additional synergies towards the end of the fourth quarter and early first quarter of next year really in the finance group as we get the SAP conversion done and for the finance and the HR systems as well as some of the investments that we made this quarter and early fourth quarter related to consolidating the networks will start to show up in terms of synergies related to that as well.
And those are probably the 2 larger buckets that we'll see between third and fourth quarter.
Finally regarding the wireless the Verizon agreement we've been pleased with the agreement thus far.
We have actually focused more on the video model that we have the wireless bundle in the last couple of quarters because that's where the opportunity was initially.
We expect next year to put more emphasis on the wireless bundle and we think the agreement with Verizon is very attractive.
And as I mentioned earlier we're actually making a little money with this agreement with them so we don't have any real concerns at this point.
And our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess a question for Karen.
Is anything on the IT side looking at through the improvements in some of the line metrics and so forth and seeing you've gotten some of your go-to-market strategy in place in some of the Qwest territories how much more do you have? Any more systems do you have any other sort of IT barriers that left to beginning to sell take that strategy to the entire network at this point? Well the IT systems really don't keep us from taking our go-to-market or any of the changes that we need to make in the market.
That's not a barrier or a challenge at all.
I mean there are set of different systems but we're capable of making the changes and doing what we need to do in the Qwest market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess for Jim as you're looking at the Savvis transition here where are you as far as and I apologize I missed the early part of the call if you've covered this so where are you as far as being able to cross sell within the Qwest territory? Is that part of why you're seeing the transition to larger end customers getting those larger opportunities? And what is sort of the outlook for getting in front of those customers over the next 12 months? Well I think the outlook is very good in that but we're really at the beginning stages of this and basically just getting the engagement rules across channels formalized which has happened and we're just beginning training of the BMG sales organizations.
So we have a lot of prospects which initially come into the system.
They take some time to materialize.
But as people get trained we get the support [ph] of organizations in place.
2012 is when we'll start to see the real advantage.
And the bigger customer issues were really generated -- were previously generated by our activities in Savvis.
So those haven't come from those activities yet.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> First I was curious if you look at just the expense structure I know you did mention some of the transitory issues that you had like from the storm costs et cetera.
But if you sort of take synergy out of the discussion for a moment how should we think about the negative operating leverage in the business as you lose revenue and then translating that to the EBITDA line? Mike we believe that we can continue to take costs out of the business now.
Obviously as you lose the high-margin legacy revenue it becomes tougher and tougher on a dollar-for-dollar basis really take that out but we'll be working next year to try to take additional costs out of the business.
The other thing though that from a positive standpoint we believe that there's really good opportunity on the revenue side to really turn the top line over time as well.
It won't happen in 2012 may or may not happen in 2013.
It's just hard to say at this point.
We're not ready to put a pen in it but we believe that with the products and services that Savvis has and the ability to cross sell those services into the customer base that we have another tenet would be the IPTV rollout that Glen spoke about earlier and the additional revenue and lower customer losses we expect to see related to that.
And then just the increased sales forces that we expect to have both in the BMG Group and in the RMG Group to try to take market share back away from the cable companies and the CLECs areas.
We believe that these 3 opportunities really give us a lot of opportunities in the future to hopefully try to start growing revenue at some point.
This year the fiber-to-the-tower investment should have stabilized as we're going forward as well.
Our next question comes from Chris Larsen from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So I had a few questions.
First of all let me go back to the comment on Prism.
Qwest had rolled out high-speed data capabilities to about 3 million homes if I'm not mistaken.
What are your thoughts around rolling Prism out on top of those already upgraded data rates in the Qwest territory? And then secondly on the integration of Savvis you did a great job telling [ph] us the integration of the Embarq and the Qwest properties.
So I wonder if you could talk a little bit about how the integration is going there.
I know it's not so much about cost savings but talk about integrating the sales force and then possibly even cross selling the Qwest data centers that you've got now in your portfolio that the Savvis sales force knows how to sell your thoughts on that and where you are on that process.
Yes first of all Chris the fiber-to-the-node has been very beneficial to us as we roll out Prism TV.
You've got fiber deep into the network closer to your customers so it's a real advantage for us.
It helped set up the rollout of Prism TV and one of the reasons that the maximum we will spend in any year is $250 million.
We expect it to be less than that in those years for the next 3 to 4 years.
But that's a key reason.
We can keep our cost per customer under $200 a customer for this effort.
So it's certainly an asset for us.
As far as with the Savvis and the Qwest data centers we will actually move the Qwest data center operation over to Savvis beginning of the year.
We should see impacts from that.
Savvis is obviously that's where their focus is and we have not seen a lot of growth in data hosting in the Qwest side CenturyLink side to date.
So we think that will be a positive for us.
We've just -- Jim just mentioned we have completed the rules of engagement across the sales forces now.
SO we are moving forward quickly with that.
We're training the CenturyLink sales force enterprise sales force to sell the cloud and the hosting product.
So we feel very good about where we're headed.
We're also seeing demand from our business customers or interest by business customers for the expanded enhanced network that CenturyLink brings for the Savvis sales efforts to Savvis customers.
So we feel very good about this whole process.
Our next question comes from Scott Goldman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to revisit Prism for a second.
You talked about spending up to $215 million in CapEx in any give year.
It sounds like it could be a little bit lower than that based on what Glen just said.
But if you could just refresh us on how much you spent in 2011 on Prism in terms of CapEx.
And then as you sort of thinking about it I know you're not going to give us guidance for next year but as you sort of think about fiber-to-the-cell fiber-to-the-node spend like are we staying at current levels are you willing to bring CapEx above current pro forma levels to do Prism IPTV or is that something you think you can keep in doing under the current budget? In 2011 we're spending about $90 million on Prism product expectations and Scott we do not expect to increase the budget for this.
We just had no other activity in the budget.
We would expect to keep within our current guidance in the $3 billion range for our capital budget.
So there may be other things that would eventually call us to make a decision to go a little higher but it would not be the Prism investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just if I could maybe talk about Qwest a little bit.
You had another quarter quarter you've been to sort of take a look in the books and get to know the customers a little bit better.
Anything else? Last quarter you talked a bit about the CPE maybe you can give us an update on maybe anything else you've learned over the quarter.
And then as I look at the BMG results looks as though strategic services revenues slowed a little bit.
Maybe you can comment a little bit is that macro related or just maybe comment about what's happening in the strategic services side of BMG.
First of all at CPE we have seen some delays last quarter and pushing into this quarter.
The kind that we're seeing the slowdown in decision making but there's a lot of activity.
We're seeing some good bookings come into the fourth quarter at BMG on those quarter.
And I'll let Chris -- you want to talk about maybe the strategic revenue question Qwest Chris? We're seeing a couple of things on the strategic side.
One of things is in the -- as Glen mentioned earlier in the low-speed private line space we continue to see pretty significant migration and cost compression go on there.
And then the other one that we saw specifically in the strategic space is around acquisition and retention of new customers.
As Glen said we had a couple of significant wins where the expectation on the part of customer in terms of transition credits and services are fairly significant.
And so we saw some of that in the third quarter as well.
And to clarify that we have a 3- to 5-year contract with the customer.
When you renew the contract process have gone down so we have to renegotiate the new contract prices and that's what we're dealing with there.
And our final question for today comes from Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Karen you obviously have a great track record of improving operational performance but can you give us maybe a little bit more detail what you're doing to improve the buying growth here? And Stewart can you maybe just remind us what the pro forma revenue growth trends have been in the last couple of quarters? And I guess the question being is the 4.6% near the bottom of what you expect and we can start to see improvements here? Tim the question was around improvement of -- you said line performance? Research Division</strong> Well line and broadband you've done a great job here but can you give a -- little more specific on what you're doing? Yes.
If I just look at some of the basic foundational things one it really is holding the general manager as a local model.
The accountability they have clearly a line of sight that you can't have from a corporate headquarters and so they know what are the right grassroots the marketing programs to implement in their markets be it military colleges schools.
They also work back with the corporate marketing group to make sure that we've got the right placement in terms of media in terms of our direct mail just increasing that direct mail and marketing to more of the noncustomers as well as the Tier 2 and Tier 3 markets.
We increased our promotional call volumes significantly as a result of that.
The Price-Lock which is a high-speed it's a double play it's a data and a voice play has worked very well for us.
Customers like the Price-Lock for 5 years.
The give them some assurance in terms of their budget and it gets them in a bundle.
So those are really -- and then from a channel standpoint the call center there has been a lot of focus on just sales execution in our model in terms of how we sell from a top-down approach working through the needs of the customer.
And we've improved our sales per hundred rate in every category there too.
So I'd say just good execution by the team.
And Tim with respect to the revenue trends yes we do expect it to get better from here.
Fourth quarter we would expect somewhere between 3.5% to 4% if you look back fourth to fourth.
So we do expect an improvement from the third quarter amount.
Additionally I guess you'll have to look at 2012 to see what the impact of the FCC order is once we have an opportunity to first receive it and then get through the 500 pages.
But as Glen mentioned at this point we don't expect that to be materially negative to us.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Before closing I would like to briefly outline our strategic objectives to drive long-term shareholder value I think that's on Slide 21.
First we are committed to creating a powerful portfolio that will drive revenue and cash flow growth.
Second we are committed to investing in our network to increase penetration of broadband in our markets.
We're also focused on intensifying customer and revenue growth and strengthening our customer and revenue and retention efforts.
We are committed to investing in and developing new products in related business initiatives that will help us keep pace with our rapidly evolving industry.
Fifth we are focused on successfully completing the integration efforts surrounding the Qwest and Savvis transactions and achieving our stated synergy targets.
And finally we remain vigilant about maintaining our strong balance sheet while managing operating expenses and making prudent investments in our business.
In summary overall we are pleased with the third quarter results and we are optimistic about our business in the months ahead.
Thank you all for being on our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the months ahead.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's fourth quarter 2011 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available on our Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
On Slide 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for 2012 the integration of Qwest and Savvis and other outlooks on our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Turning to Slide 3.
Your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen today will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
And also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer and leader of our Regional Markets Group; Chris Ancell who's President of our Business Markets Group; Bill Cheek President of our Wholesale Markets Group; and Jim Ousley CEO of our Savvis Group.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through February 22 2012 and accessible by webcast through March 8 2012.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of February 15 2012 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or reviewed.
As we move to Slide 4 I'll now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today as we discuss CenturyLink's fourth quarter 2011 performance and share our strategic areas of focus heading into the months ahead.
Our results were strong.
During the fourth quarter we continue to invest in key areas of growth meet our integration objectives and build positive momentum in a number of areas across our business despite a challenging economy and a very competitive business environment.
Now turning to Slide 5.
I want to highlight a number of accomplishments we achieved during 2011.
First we completed the acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis adding strategic high-quality asset to CenturyLink which further diversified our revenue mix broadened our portfolio of assets that strengthen CenturyLink's position as a leading communications company.
We've also added a global aspect to our business through these transactions.
Second during the fourth quarter we achieved operating revenues above the top end of our fourth quarter revenue guidance.
And for full year 2011 we successfully lowered the rate of revenue decline to 3.8% from approximately 5.6% for pro forma full year 2010.
We also successfully completed integration of Embarq and made solid progress with the integration of Qwest and Savvis while reaching our full operating expense synergy target for Embarq and exceeding our 2011 operating expense synergy target for Qwest.
From an operating metrics standpoint the rate of access line loss in our business continue to decline in 2011 improving from 8% at year-end 2010 to 6.6% at the end of 2011.
Additionally we experienced solid broadband subscriber growth of nearly 240 000 subscribers during 2011 a 4.5% decline -- I'm sorry improvement.
We completed over 1 500 fiber-to-the-tower builds during 2011 and enabled Ethernet services to more than 430 000 exchanges since April 1 2011.
Lastly we expanded our Prism TV product through 5 additional markets and now pass over 1 million homes.
We ended 2011 with a penetration rate of about 7% of homes passed.
Moving to Slide 6.
We entered 2012 excited about our business and the prospects for continued top line revenue improvement as well as customer retention and growth.
The chart on this slide illustrates we have slowed the rate of revenue decline on a pro forma basis from roughly 5.6% in 2010 to 3.8% in 2011.
We expect to significantly reduce the rate of revenue decline in 2012.
This continues our path toward revenue stability and eventual growth as we begin to see our strategic initiatives to have a greater impact on our revenue streams.
Top line revenue trends improved in 2011 as we began to realize the benefits of our higher index to growth.
Nearly 60% of our revenue has now come from business services as a result of the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions.
We're also encouraged by our ability to continue to mitigate line loss now at 6.6% from 8% a year ago.
Our investments in fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-tower are paying off.
Our broadband subscriber growth in fourth quarter is best-in-class among Starbuck [ph] peer group.
We have seen a pickup in the legacy Qwest markets in the second half of the year as the extension of our local operating model has begun to gain traction in these large markets.
We're pleased with the overall revenue mix shift in the business.
Our strategic revenue plus Savvis accounts now it's now the fourth quarter of '11 nearly 44% of our revenue up from 40% a year ago as we continue to reindex our business to areas of growth.
We're seeing growth in strategic revenues.
They grew over 6% in 2011 and we expect this growth will continue in 2012.
Our business markets strategic revenue growth when adjusting for material private line services accelerated the fourth quarter '11 to nearly 8% as we see continued high demand for next-generation IP services like MPLS and Ethernet.
Turning now to Slide 7.
As discussed last quarter we're focusing our resources in areas that we believe will drive our future growth.
They include broadband expansion and enhancement including fiber-to-the-node deployment the expansion of CenturyLink's IPTV offering of Prism TV our fiber-to-the-node initiative and our managed hosting cloud services.
We are pleased with the progress we've made on each of these key areas during 2011 and expect to invest in it and to drive results for these initiatives in year 2012 and beyond.
We continue to make significant investments in expansion and enhancement of our broadband network and achieve a net increase of over 70 000 high-speed Internet customers in this quarter.
We also successfully expanded our fiber-to-the-node infrastructure to an additional 340 000 living units during the fourth quarter and into 2011 with 6.1 million fiber-to-the-node-enabled living units.
Looking forward into 2012 we expect to enable approximately 1 million additional living units in the year and -- end 2012 with about 7.1 million fiber-to-the-node enabled living units.
Now turning to Prism TV we're focused on expanding our footprint and growing our subscriber base and we're encouraged by the 30% growth in Prism TV subscribers during the fourth quarter as we ended 2011 with over 70 000 Prism TV subscribers.
We also continue to see Prism TV have a positive impact on churn and line loss trends and we continue to experience greater than 90% broadband pull-through rate with our Prism TV sales to new customers.
We also look forward to launching Prism TV in our first legacy Qwest market in the coming months.
Continuing with our fiber-to-the-tower initiative on Slide 8.
We continue to make progress with fiber-to-the-tower buildout initiative which strengthens our wireless data transport capacity and enables us to meet the growing data transport needs of wireless carriers in 2012 and beyond.
Now during fourth quarter we completed over 1 250 fiber builds and finished the year with nearly 10 200 fiber-to-the-tower builds completed.
We expect to build fiber to another 4 000 to 5 000 towers in 2012.
Lastly we remain committed to investing in the managed hosting cloud services space in the months ahead.
We believe part of our operation -- this part of our operation has significant potential for growth in the coming months and years.
As part of our commitment we expanded our data center footprint during the fourth quarter as we opened one center and added space and centers in 2 other cities to bring our total sellable square footage to 1.3 million by the end of 2011.
We anticipate adding another 100 000 additional square feet of sellable space during 2012.
Also we're pleased to announce Savvis has been recognized by the analyst firm Gartner as a leader in both the Magic Quadrant for Public Cloud Infrastructure as a Service and the Magic Quadrant for Cloud Infrastructure as a Service and Web Hosting.
And we believe this esteemed recognition solidifies Savvis' reputation as an industry leader in this space.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Stewart? Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing some of the financial highlights for the fourth quarter and then I'll provide an overview of the guidance that we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Now turning to Slide 10.
First in order to provide more relevant comparisons I'll be reviewing the financial results on a pro forma basis as if Qwest and Savvis were fully included in the results for all periods.
As you can see we generated strong operating revenues and solid cash flows during the fourth quarter.
For fourth quarter 2011 operating revenues were $4.653 billion on a consolidated basis slightly above the top end of our guidance for the quarter representing a 3.2% decline from pro forma fourth quarter 2010 operating revenues and a sequential increase of 0.4% compared to the prior quarter.
Strategic revenues grew 4.7% to $2 billion while our legacy revenues for fourth quarter were $2.2 billion a decrease of 9.5% from pro forma fourth quarter a year ago.
On a full year basis operating revenues declined 3.8% which was a little better than an anticipated 4% year-over-year decline and a nice improvement over the approximately 5.6% decline in pro forma operating revenues for 2010.
You will recall when we reported earnings last quarter we outlined and spoke about adjusted diluted earnings per share similar to what other companies in our industry have done following a major acquisition.
Adjusted diluted EPS excludes acquisition integration costs and any other special items that may occur during a given quarter.
It also excludes the noncash impact of the amortization of intangibles and the noncash impact to interest expense of the assignment of fair value to debt outstanding from the application of business combination accounting rules to recent acquisitions.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.55 for the fourth quarter.
Excluding a $30 million additional noncash employee benefit cost due to changes in the discount rate and actuarial assumptions the adjusted diluted EPS was $0.58 for the quarter.
Total cash operating expenses increased 1% in fourth quarter 2011 compared to pro forma fourth quarter a year ago with the synergy achievement and any other cost reductions offset by additional noncash employee benefit cost driven by the reduction of the discount rate and the actuarial assumptions and higher-than-anticipated network expenses and customer premise equipment cost that more than offset lower salaries and wages marketing and advertising expenses.
We generated solid operating cash flow of approximately $1.85 billion for the fourth quarter especially if you consider that we incurred the approximately $60 million of higher-than-anticipated operating expenses during the quarter.
Additionally we achieved free cash flow which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income of $515 million during the quarter.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility we need to capitalize on opportunities and meet the challenges that arise and take advantage of opportunities that arise to drive long-term shareholder value.
Now turning to Slide 11.
I'll begin the operating segment discussions today with our Regional Markets Group.
Further I want to remind you that we will be providing revised pro forma segment financials when we report first quarter 2012 results reflecting the transfer of legacy Qwest data centers to the Savvis operating group which we accomplished as of the first of the year.
Regional Markets Group generated $2.24 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 3.9% over pro forma fourth quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues grew to $761 million in the quarter up 5.8% pro forma year-over-year.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined $136 million or 8.6% from pro forma fourth quarter 2010.
Our total segment expenses in RMG declined 2.7% to $991 million from pro forma fourth quarter 2010.
Our expense reductions for the fourth quarter compared to previous year were mainly driven by synergy achievements which were partially offset by costs related to the rollout of our Prism TV product in additional markets during the year.
Moving to Slide 12.
Our Business Markets Group generated $947 million in operating revenues during the fourth quarter which represented a decrease of 3.3% from pro forma fourth quarter 2010.
Excluding the decline in data integration revenues the total percentage decline for the quarter was only 1.2%.
Fourth quarter strategic revenues increased by $12 million or 2.8% to $446 million from pro forma fourth quarter 2010 driven primarily by Ethernet and MPLS services.
Excluding low-speed private line strategic revenue grew 7.8% from the year ago period.
Legacy revenue for BMG declined from fourth quarter 2010 by $22 million primarily due to ongoing migrations of customer acquisitions applications from legacy LAN and voice products to next-generation IP and Ethernet solutions.
While data integration revenues decreased $22 million or 12.7% due to the unusually higher results for fourth quarter 2010.
Our total segment expenses in BMG increased by 1.7% to $587 million from pro forma fourth quarter 2010 as we experienced higher expenses related to CPE and an increase in the number of sales professionals.
Moving to Slide 13.
Our Wholesale Markets Group generated $955 million in operating revenues a decrease of 4% from pro forma fourth quarter 2010 as access in long-distance revenues continue to decline but were partially offset by wireless carrier bandwidth expansion during the quarter.
Strategic revenues for WMG grew 5.4% to $564 million from fourth quarter 2010 primarily driven by continued strong data transport demand from wireless providers.
Our legacy revenues declined by about 15% to $390 million.
Now turning to Slide 14 in our Savvis segment.
Savvis generated $260 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 3.6% from pro forma fourth quarter revenues of $251 million.
This growth comes primarily from year-over-year increases of 12% in managed hosting and cloud services revenues with total hosting year-over-year growth of 7% and a slight decline in network services.
Savvis' operating expenses were $208 million in the fourth quarter compared to $193 million in pro forma fourth quarter 2010.
This increase of 7.8% is driven by additional cost to support revenue growth across staffing expansion of data centers third-party services and sales and marketing.
As shown on Slide 15 we continue to meet our integration objectives and achieve all our synergy targets as we realize the benefits of the Embarq Qwest and Savvis acquisitions.
We completed the integration of Embarq during the fourth quarter and achieved our targeted annual run rate synergies of $375 million.
With respect to Qwest we ended 2011 having achieved an annual operating expense synergy run rate of approximately $235 million or about $35 million better than our expected year-end 2011 exit run rate primarily due to achieving certain synergies earlier than anticipated.
In total we expect to achieve an annual operating expense synergy run rate of $575 million from the Qwest acquisition and anticipate reaching that synergy target over the next 2 to 4 years.
During the fourth quarter we successfully completed the conversion of the Qwest financial and HR systems as we had planned and previously discussed with you.
Slide 16 addresses our 2012 guidance.
For first quarter 2012 CenturyLink projects total revenues of $4.58 billion to $4.64 billion and operating cash flow between $1.84 billion and $1.90 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be $0.57 to $0.63 per share.
For full year 2012 CenturyLink expects operating revenues of $18.2 billion to $18.4 billion representing an annual decline of 1.5% to 2.5% from 2011.
Continued successful execution of our local operating model further investment in broadband and IPTV video and key initiatives in the business markets and managed services areas will fuel further revenue improvement in 2012.
We estimate operating cash flow of $7.4 billion to $7.6 billion and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.45.
We expect to generate free cash flow of $3.2 billion to $3.4 billion.
Capital expenditures are expected to be slightly below 2011 and range from $2.6 billion to $2.8 billion excluding approximately $100 million of integration-related capital.
To elaborate on the expense portion of our full year 2012 guidance we continue to take costs out of our business through synergies and other incremental expense cuts.
At the same time we're investing both capital and operating dollars in other growth areas of the business.
While this causes our expense trends to not reflect the cost management that we've undertaken we believe these investments are important to achieve our fundamental goal which is profitable top line growth.
Our 2012 EBITDA expectations reflect the combination of factors: Incremental synergy achievement of $250 million in 2012; ongoing cost management initiatives aimed at streamlining processes and rightsizing our support structure; continuing disciplined investments in strategic growth initiatives including IPTV expansion fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-tower footprint expansion; business markets growth initiatives and hosting and managed services.
We expect to exit the year with $450 million in run rate synergies from the Qwest acquisition on the path to deliver the full $575 million we have previously communicated.
That concludes our prepared remarks so at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Mike McCormack from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the EBITDA trend Stewart throughout the year we saw margin pressure sort of building throughout the year.
With the 2012 expectation it looks like there's something to recover in Q1 and stayed pretty strong throughout the year.
Just trying to get the puts and takes there.
And I noticed also BMG margins took a pretty strong hit in the quarter.
Just trying to figure out if that's a seasonal impact or whether we'd see continued margin pressures there? Mike for BMG the CPE was a portion of the margin hit that they took in the fourth quarter.
And in terms of 2012 yes we would anticipate -- we see some normal seasonal improvement in the first quarter.
I mean there'll be some continued pressure during the year but we hope to relieve some of that pressure with the continued synergy achievement that we expect during the year as well as our business as usual expense cuts.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> One question on the EBITDA reported EBITDA for the fourth quarter.
I think you missed your guidance a little bit.
Can you go through the drivers for that? And if that number also has impacts on the noncash pension and OPEB cost? And how should we think about that pension cost? How much of that is included in the EBITDA guidance for 2012? Yes so Batya the reason we missed the EBITDA guidance slightly in the fourth quarter was due to the additional expenses in the fourth quarter.
Again about $40 million of that related to pensions and benefits $30 million of which was really noncash and is really included as a cash expense in EBITDA the way we handle it.
But that $30 million related to lowering of the discount rate and changing in some of the other actuarial assumptions related to primarily long-term disability.
The other $10 million really related to the medical expenses being about $10 million over what we had expected for the quarter.
So that was about $40 million.
Additionally we had some network expense incremental network expense in the quarter of probably $25 million $25 million to $30 million or so.
Some of that was driven by the additions that we had with respect to high-speed Internet our IPTV.
That growth drove some incremental expenses as well as completing the connections the Ethernet connections to fiber-to-the-tower.
So that really accounts for most of the other expense increases during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And for 2012 guidance how much do you think pension and OPEB is going to hit EBITDA? So we'll have about -- there's about $50 million or so.
When you combine pension and OPEB that hits expense as a cash expense in our EBITDA number.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you walk us through sort of the trends of the Savvis business? It looks a little bit lower than we would have thought in the quarter.
When did the bookings turn into sales and actually start hitting the books? And then what's the status with the Qwest data centers that were sort of underutilized? And at what point should we start to see that either be lumped into that Savvis business or start to see that start to grow? Frank this is Glen.
I'll start we'll then ask Jim Ousley here to really go into a little more detail.
We had low bookings in the third quarter.
Of course we knew we had some federal stuff coming in -- flowed into the fourth quarter there and we had some higher churn as well in the third quarter.
All that caused the -- some delay in the revenues.
With the larger deals that we're working on there is a larger time frame required for it to complete those.
But overall we think we'll see that pick up in the first quarter and we're going to spend some revenue in the second quarter.
And we're seeing in 90 days or so lag on the revenues.
But Jim do you? Yes this is Jim Ousley.
Third quarter obviously was when the transaction took place so we had a lull in bookings in the third quarter due to the transaction.
Customers waiting to see if there was going to be an impact what was going to transpire employees of course are also so third quarter bookings definitely affected the fourth quarter.
The very positive aspect is once that was all done we communicated with our customers.
We had the strongest fourth quarter bookings we've had in several years.
So that fourth quarter bookings will reflect in revenues starting the end of the first quarter and into the second quarter.
So we see the recovery out of the third quarter lull as very strong.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe Stewart can you comment on use of cash? I'm seeing you're still working on some of the debt repayment commitments you've made and then thoughts on use of cash after that? Yes.
So Frank basically we'll -- it'll take most of the year to really complete the $1.5 billion to $2 billion pay down of debt commitment that we made to the rating agencies and really frankly take most of the free cash flow that we have this year that won't be used for dividends.
So yes I would expect that towards the end of the year as we see how we have performed in 2012 and have our outlook pulled together for 2013 we'll talk with the board about use of cash going forward.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You had strong broadband results and you talked a little bit about the local market.
Is this something that you think there's an opportunity to continue into 2012? Perhaps if you could just talk around some of the things you're doing there and the results you're getting? Also in terms of the capital spending budget I think the capital spending is coming down a little bit in terms of intensity.
Just talk about how much of this is related to things like IPTV and sort of growth initiatives how much is sort of maintenance.
Simon Karen Puckett.
In terms of the broadband growth we did have a good quarter.
Key enablers really the local market holding the general manager accountable for specific and getting the local team involved.
Secondly our go-to-market continues to ramp the changes we've made.
Marketing to noncustomers more DM the 5-year Price-Lock as well as Bundle Your Way is playing very well for us.
And then our channels and our call center channels we've improved pretty significantly ourselves per 100.
The other benefit we're really ramping on some retention programs that we've been working through.
So all of that is equated to this overall significant improvement in broadband especially in the Qwest market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And so something that is sustainable into '12? We're optimistic about 2012.
And typically first quarter we had such a strong fourth quarter first quarter likely will not.
We're putting some plans in place to make sure of quality of customer less peers so that would have an impact in terms of inwards.
But in terms of quality double play kind of customers we'll continue to focus there and see what happens here in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And on CapEx? On CapEx Simon first of all about 25% of our capital budget is what we would consider just maintenance.
If you look at other a few other big buckets that are really associated with our growth drivers basically with respect to the Savvis and the hosting business we'll spend between $330 million and $350 million in 2012.
Our fiber-to-the-tower initiative somewhat dependent there on finalization of plans by the folks that we're building the towers for or building the fiber-to-the-tower for.
But expect to spend $250 million to $275 million there.
High-speed Internet related which would include our fiber-to-the-node continuation which is a project that Qwest has had ongoing for several years we expect to pass about an additional 1 million homes in 2012 with fiber-to-the-node.
We'll spend $290 million to $320 million there.
That includes extra -- additional capacity as well and modems for the fiber-to-the-node financial side customers things like that.
In our Prism and video we'll spend some of this is success based but somewhere between $80 million to $120 million.
So that's about $950 million to $1.05 billion or so for the capital budget this year.
And again another 25% or so is maintenance.
Our next question comes from Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Three questions if you don't mind.
What kind of speeds can you get on the fiber-to-the-node improvements or potential anyway in a couple of years? And how many homes do you think you can really economically build out to over time? And then secondly now that you've really gone through a lot more you're done with Embarq and looking at Qwest are there any real differences in integration between Qwest and Embarq? And then lastly why aren't you counting maybe the pension hit as a little bit onetime in nature here? Okay.
First Tim regarding the fiber-to-the-node we normally expect to get 20 to 40 megabits buildout.
With that expected bonding we can take that to 40 to 80 megabits.
That's the range we're looking at on fiber-to-the-node.
And as far as how many homes you can economically build over time? We're still working through that with technologies changing and improving all the time.
We're about I think about 37% of our homes now built to the fiber-to-the-node plus we have other direct other loop shortening efforts and we have -- now we're getting 10 to 15 megabits in a lot of other areas without fiber-to-the-node using just our loops.
Even up to 25 megabits in a lot of our -- in all of our base level of our Prism TV areas which are not Qwest really not fiber-to-the-node.
This are fiber builds and shortening loop-shortening capabilities.
So although we feel good about where our network is right now.
We've got a lot of work in the network and it's really a high-quality network in most of the cities we're in.
And Tim just in terms of differences in integration of Qwest and Embarq.
Really the Embarq systems are more complicated than the Qwest -- I'm sorry Qwest systems are more complicated than the Embarq systems were.
Just if you take for example the conversion of the financial and HR systems there were many many more systems that surrounded the financial and HR systems that were feeding the Qwest financial systems that we had to provide interfaces for and things like that associated with the conversion to the ERP systems that we use.
So it was a much more complex conversion than the Embarq conversion.
If you look at the billing and customer-care conversions there too you'll have more complexities associated with Qwest than we do with Embarq.
With respect to the employee benefit cost in the quarter first of all I guess there were not pension costs which others I guess had called out as changes in the discount rate impacting in their fourth quarter.
This was really for us related to our long-term disability plans and it was the result of the discount rate decline as well as some other actuarial costs associated with medical insurance.
But basically we have that adjustment at the end of each year.
It's just that it was higher in the fourth quarter this year than it typically is due to the decline in the discount rate primarily.
Our next question comes from Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you can delve into 2 numbers a little bit.
First on the business market side the direct expenses have been ramping for the last few quarters.
Can you talk about sort of what's driving that? You've talked about sort of adding to sales there in the past but help us out there.
Yes so that's it.
Basically you see some fluctuation from quarter-to-quarter with respect to CPE expense.
That fluctuates kind of based on the CPE revenue that we see quarter-to-quarter.
But the other driver of expense increases in BMG had really been the sales people that we've added over the past 3 quarters or so.
So we ramped up the sales force to try to basically get to revenue stability hopefully on BMG and it has resulted in improved sales bookings quarter-to-quarter.
Over the last 3 quarters we've seen higher bookings than Qwest had previously seen in the few quarters prior to the acquisition.
Research Division</strong> And does that feel more sales-driven? Or is it an improvement in the overall business? It's more sales-driven.
We've really not seeing any difference that we can tell at least associated with the economy at this point.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the wholesale markets revenue the strategic revenue declined this quarter.
I would think that with all the towers coming online that would continue to increase.
What should we be thinking about there? Yes.
We had a couple of one-time adjustments in the fourth quarter that impacted the strategic revenue on wholesale.
But again it's just a  one-time adjustment that we had there.
Basically it's a settlement or accrual for settlement with a carrier more or less.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So without that it would have continued its upward trajectory? Yes.
Without that we would have had continued increase.
We're very pleased with the fiber-to-the-towers that we installed during 2011 and especially in the fourth quarter and expect that to -- as well as copper circuits as the wireless carriers continue to order the towers where we don't have fiber.
So we expect to continue that trend of upward revenue hopefully on the strategic side in the wholesale business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
As long as we're on wholesale maybe you can help us on the legacy side.
Down 17% in 2011 versus '10 how should we think about that trending in '12? Yes.
Basically that's minutes of use-driven.
Our minutes of use were down probably a little over 15% in 2011.
And what you'll see in 2012 is with the implementation of the plan that the FCC has put in place we'll see the Switched Access revenues over the course of the next few years decline significantly pretty much go away.
But the good news there is that we're hopeful that we'll get some relief on -- get some additional Universal Service Fund revenues associated with the broadband plan that they have in place as well as we got some flexibility to make some rate adjustments with our customers as part of that as well.
Our next question comes from Kevin Smithen from Macquarie.
I'm wondering when you think about the trade-off between higher operating expenses and getting to revenue stability sooner how do you evaluate that trade-off going forward? And if you had the opportunity to go out and spend another $200 million or $300 million in 2012 to get maybe another 20 or 30 basis points of year-over-year growth exiting the year is that a trade-off that you'd make? And at what point do you say we've invested enough and we're drawing the line in the sand in OCF and free cash flow? Kevin a couple of things or points I'd make Stewart may want to follow-up.
First of all the legacy revenue losses those are high-margin revenues and we're going to expect to see that mix change.
So they were just talking about with the minutes of use issues we have.
That's going to be reduced.
At the same time we think we have really strong opportunity to grow -- for growth in our major strategic initiative areas with our continued broadband expansion with our fiber-to-the-node with our Prism TV efforts and our fiber-to-the-tower.
That's going to help stabilize our revenues and grow revenues over time.
And then finally the managed hosting cloud services we think there's outstanding growth potential.
Bringing all those together we believe that we're on a good track to where we can -- with the reduction in revenue losses this year that we should see an evolution toward revenue stability and eventual revenue growth.
So we feel good about what we're doing for specific opportunity every one it just depends.
And where do you expect to end the year in terms of year-over-year revenue declines exiting Q4 of 2012? Not really ready.
We'd rather see the year develop a little bit but I mean we're comfortable in the 1.5% to 2% range for the full year.
Our next question comes from Tom Seitz from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The cable companies are increasingly talking about Wi-Fi hotspots.
For now it's an add-on for their higher-tier broadband customers.
I know you've done one-off Wi-Fi projects in the past.
But is that something that you're looking at as a retention tool or potential opportunity down the line in connection with your broadband offerings? Yes.
It is and we're looking at it.
Of course we do have a number of hotspots across the country today.
We're looking also for an opportunity to -- for offload opportunities for wireless carriers even our Wi-Fi.
So that's another area we're looking that we think could drive more traffic and then be a revenue generator.
So yes it is an area we continue to look at Tom.
Our next question comes from Kathy [ph] From UBS.
Just 2 quick questions.
First hoping you can give us kind of your current thoughts on potential M&amp;A over the next 18 months or so.
And then second related to that I'm wondering if you can also give us your thoughts on some comments AT&amp;T made about divesting access lines what your appetite might be for access lines.
As far as M&amp;A potential we're focused today on our 4 primary growth areas that I just talked about.
And we have also -- second we're focused on integration of Savvis and Qwest and we have to get that right.
And so we're not -- we don't feel a need to go out and acquire right now.
Doesn't say we wouldn't look at opportunities that came along that drove long-term shareholder value but that's not our focus today.
As far as AT&amp;T we won't comment on AT&amp;T lines.
We don't know what their plans are.
We've heard those rumors for many years a number of years now and we won't comment on that.
But we don't think we need to just go out and buy access lines for additional scale.
So if there's an opportunity there that drives shareholder value we consider it.
But it's not a real big appetite from our view today.
I'd like to hand the conference back over for any closing remarks to Mr.
Glen Post.
Thank you.
Turning to Slide 19 we are pleased with where the company exited 2011 and we feel well positioned to achieve our goals in 2012.
Since 2011 we generated pro forma revenues of $18.7 billion a 3.8% decline from pro forma 2010.
Our revenue continues to shift toward faster-growing strategic services now representing nearly 45% of our total revenue.
And we expect that decline to be reduced in revenues to be reduced to 1.5% to 2.5% in 2012.
Also after several years of hard work from our dedicated employees we have successfully completed the Embarq integration and now we look ahead to completing the integrations of Qwest and Savvis and we feel we've made solid progress in both of those fronts so far.
Our local operating model continues to prove effective and show long-term benefits to our operating trends as illustrated by the improved access line losses the higher broadband subscriber growth and increased Prism TV customers we saw during the past 2 quarters.
With our broadband suite of products -- product suite and the  strong asset mix we are gaining momentum across selling products throughout the business segments.
We feel we'll see that continue to grow.
And overall we're pleased with the quarter results and are optimistic about our business.
So thank you for being on our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the months ahead.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Sayed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's first quarter 2012 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
On Slide 2 you find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for second quarter and full year 2012 the integration of Qwest and Savvis and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Now turning to Slide 3.
Your host on today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen today will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
And also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer who leads our Region (sic) [Regional] Markets Group; Bill Cheek President of our Wholesale Markets Group; and Jim Ousley Chief Executive Officer of Savvis and President of our recently announced Enterprise Markets Group.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through May 16 2012 and accessible by webcast through May 31 2012.
Anyone listening to a tape or webcast replay or reading a transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of May 9 2012 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or reviewed.
As we move to Slide 4 I will now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today as we discuss CenturyLink's first quarter 2012 performance and review our strategic focus areas for the months ahead.
For the past few quarters we've outlined our plan to continue to move toward revenue stability stable cash flow and further growth.
That plan includes investing in key strategic initiatives broadband expansion enhancement Prism TV fiber-to-the-tower and Managed Hosting and Cloud Computing services areas that we believe provide the best opportunities for future revenue growth.
We're executing well on this plan and remain focused on continuing this progress in the months ahead.
Now turning to Slide 5.
During the quarter we made good progress in improving our top line revenue trend.
We generated over $4.61 billion a 2.7% year-over-year decline comparing favorably to the 3.6% decline from the first quarter 2011 and a 3.2% decline from the pro forma fourth quarter 2011.
Full year 2012 we remain on track to reduce our annual revenue rate of decline to between 1.5% to 2.5%.
Business customers now drive about 60% of our total operating revenues.
Our focus on delivering advanced solutions and data hosting services to businesses are key factors in improving our top line revenue trend.
Also in the first quarter we achieved further access line loss improvement and strong broadband subscriber growth and we continue to scale our Prism TV service in the 8 markets where it is currently available.
The integrations of Qwest and Savvis remain on track and we will continue to leverage these assets to strengthen our competitive position.
Due to the -- to better-than-expected synergy achievement and better visibility related to the Qwest acquisition we have raised our annual operating expense synergy target to $650 million from $575 million an increase of 13%.
As of the end of the quarter we have achieved an annual synergy run rate of $340 million related to the Qwest integration.
Now we expect to end 2012 with an annual synergy run rate of about $465 million.
Still we'll provide additional color around the Qwest synergy target increase a little later in the call.
To more effectively leverage the strategic assets obtained from the Embarq Qwest and Savvis acquisitions we announced the restructuring of our operating groups in March.
Effective April 1 this year we consolidated our organizations focused on business and government customer segments into 2 organizations: the Enterprise Markets Group or EMG and Regional Markets Group or RMG.
EMG is led by Jim Ousley and serves national and international business customers that operate primarily outside of local market areas along with Savvis customers and Federal Government customers.
Regional and local business customers that operate primarily in our local market areas and state and local government customers are now served by Regions -- Regional Markets Group which Karen Puckett continues to lead.
The Wholesale Markets Group led by Bill Cheek continues to serve our wholesale international customers.
They also now provide sales and support for the Savvis wholesale carrier customers.
We believe this structure provides a more integrated approach that will allow us to serve our business and government customers more effectively and competitively and it underscores the strategic rationale for the acquisitions we made the past few years.
Moving to Slide 6 I'll provide a few highlights regarding these 4 key strategic initiatives.
Our first quarter results reflect the solid progress we're making in these key areas.
During the quarter we continued our disciplined investment in broadband expansion enhancement in Prism TV our fiber-to-the-tower and in Managed Hosting and cloud services.
Now first we continue to make significant investments in the expansion enhancement of our broadband network.
During the first quarter we added over 89 000 high-speed Internet customers.
Our customer retention efforts and the benefit of bundling broadband with products and services resulted in the continued decline of the rate of access line losses in our business.
We improved from 7.6% at first quarter 2011 to 6.4% at first quarter 2012.
But we also expanded our fiber-to-the-node infrastructure to an additional 175 000 living units during the quarter and now pass nearly 6.3 million living units with fiber-to-the-node and we expect to pass about 7.1 million living units by year end.
Also in late first quarter we rolled out simplified packages for higher-speed Ethernet bundled with voice over IP and IT services targeted to our SMB customers.
Early indicators were encouraging with positive market feedback as this bundling is simple and compelling and begins to position us for further provisioning of IT services in the SMB market.
As a result of our network investment enhancements broadband speed availability has continued to improve.
Nearly 70% of enabled lines receive speeds of 6 megabits or higher now almost 55% of enabled lines receive 10 megabits or higher and over 25% have speeds of 20 megabits or higher.
We expect to continue to make investments in our network to deliver competitive broadband products and services across our markets in the months ahead.
Second our Prism TV service represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to cable TV services in the 8 markets where it is currently available.
We remain focused on expanding our Prism TV-enabled footprint and on driving additional subscriber growth in the months ahead.
Our Prism product continues to perform well.
We added nearly 15 000 Prism subscribers during the first quarter 55% of which are new to CenturyLink.
We now have a penetration rate of over 8% across the 8 markets in which this service is available.
Prism TV continues to have a positive impact on churn and line loss trends and we experience greater than 90% broadband pull-through rate with our Prism sales to new customers.
We continue to see an annualized 350- to 400-basis-point improvement in churn for our customers taking the Prism product.
We remain on track to launch Prism TV in our first legacy Qwest market in the coming months.
Continuing on to Slide 7.
Our third quarter -- our third key strategic initiative is investing in fiber builds to as many towers in our service areas as economically feasible.
This initiative supports anticipated long-term growth in data transport most of which is driven by wireless data traffic and it expands our addressable customer footprint by enabling fiber access points to other strategic locations where viable along these routes.
Through the first quarter we completed 650 fiber builds.
This is in line with expectations.
And we continue to anticipate completing 4 000 to 5 000 builds in 2012 as fiber-to-the-tower construction continues to ramp up through the remainder of the year.
Now we believe our fiber-to-the-tower program solidifies our wholesale special access revenue for the long term and you can see a stabilization of our revenue trend.
As we have discussed with you before we do expect some near-term revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers transition from copper-based DS1 backhaul facilities to fiber-based Ethernet backhaul services.
However we believe the continued acceleration in wireless data consumption will drive increases in Ethernet service revenues that will offset any revenue compression within a reasonable period of time and provide solid growth over the 7- to 10-year lives of the associated contracts.
And finally we continue to invest in Managed Hosting and cloud services to increase data center capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
During the first quarter Savvis bookings were strong once again growing 26% from the year ago period and comparable to the fourth quarter '11 which had the highest bookings level since first quarter 2008.
Additionally to further expand our global presence we announced a joint venture with Digital Realty Trust to build a data center in the Hong Kong financial district and we launched Savvis cloud products in both Hong Kong and Japan.
We're also adding a data center in Singapore that will enhance our ability to provide service in the Asia region and better meet the needs of our global clients.
Also our Savvis Operating Group was provisionally selected by several third-party global IT service providers and financial service companies to provide their cloud and hosting services to help transform their existing IT infrastructure into more agile cost-effective computing environments.
We also gained traction in cross-selling opportunities for our Savvis product to our existing enterprise customers through our RMG and BMG segments.
For example several existing network customers now have signed agreements for Savvis hosting services.
We expect further improvement in this key effort in the second quarter and beyond.
Finally we ended the first quarter with 51 data centers in North America Europe and Asia with total salable square -- salable floor space of 1.36 million square feet.
In summary I am pleased with the first quarter financial results which were supported by strong customer metrics.
We continue to improve our top line revenue trends as we move toward revenue stabilization and eventual growth.
Our employees did a very good job of containing costs and we generated strong cash flow during the quarter.
We also reduced our access line losses by more than 20% compared to pro forma first quarter 2011 and 6% compared to fourth quarter 2011 and grew our high-speed Internet customers by nearly 90 000 subscribers.
And we made some solid progress on our key strategic initiatives that we believe position us well as we continue to improve our top line revenue trends in the months and years ahead.
With that I'll turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the first quarter and then I'll provide a brief liability management update and conclude my remarks with an overview of the second quarter and full year 2012 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Turning to Slide 10.
First in order to provide more relevant comparisons I'll be reviewing the financial results on a pro forma basis as if Qwest and Savvis were fully included in the results for all periods.
I'll also be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
Additionally this quarter we continued to report 4 operating segments: RMG BMG WMG and Savvis.
Next quarter we'll continue to report 4 segments.
However they will be realigned to report under the new operating structure we announced in late March which are the Enterprise Managements Group which will include 2 segments Network Services and Data Hosting Services and the Regional Market Group and the Wholesale Markets Group.
When we report second quarter results in early August we plan to publish historical quarterly segment financial information along the new reporting lines as outlined in more detail in the earnings release.
With that let's turn our results -- to our results for the first quarter.
As you can see we generated strong operating cash flows and solid cash flows during the first quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.61 billion on a consolidated basis in line with our guidance for the quarter and represent a 2.7% decline from pro forma first quarter 2011 operating revenues.
This also represents a solid improvement from the 3.6% annual decline in the year ago period.
Strategic revenue in the quarter increased to 45% of total revenue from 42% of total revenue in first quarter a year ago.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for first quarter was $0.68 exceeding guidance by $0.05 which was driven by lower-than-anticipated depreciation professional services and operating tax expenses the timing of certain hardware and software maintenance contracts as well as higher-than-anticipated capitalized expenses.
Adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain noncash purchase accounting adjustments as we have discussed during prior earnings calls.
Total cash operating expenses declined modestly from our pro forma first quarter 2011 to first quarter 2012 with synergy achievement and other cost reductions partially offset by continued investments in our key strategic initiatives.
We generated solid operating cash flow of approximately $1.94 billion for the first quarter about $40 million above the top of our prior guidance and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 42.2%.
Additionally we generated $1.04 billion of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash taxes paid interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Now turning to Slide 11 I'll begin my operating segments discussion today with our Regional Markets Group.
Regional Markets Group generated $2.2 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 4.1% over pro forma first quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues grew to $764 million in the quarter up 3.9% pro forma year-over-year.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined $124 million or 8.1% from pro forma first quarter 2011 due primarily to a continuing decline in revenues related to access lines.
However this 8.1% decline represents a solid improvement over the 9.4% year-over-year decline in legacy revenues in pro forma first quarter 2011.
Our expense reductions for the first quarter compared to the previous year were mainly driven by lower employee-related expenses professional fees and marketing and advertising costs which were partially offset by higher Prism TV expenses.
Moving to Slide 12.
Our Business Markets Group generated $917 million in operating revenues during the first quarter which represented a decrease of 1.3% from pro forma first quarter 2011.
That said excluding data integration revenues the year-over-year decline in BMG operating revenues for the quarter was only 4/10 of 1%.
First quarter strategic revenues for BMG increased by $13 million or 3% to $450 million from pro forma first quarter 2011 driven primarily by strength in high-bandwidth services such as Ethernet MPLS and DWDM.
Excluding low-speed Private Line Services which were in decline as customers migrate to higher-bandwidth services strategic revenue grew nearly 8% from the pro forma year ago period.
Legacy revenue for BMG declined by $16 million from pro forma first quarter 2011 due primarily to declines in local and legacy WAN services while data integration revenues decreased $9 million or 7% due to lower equipment sales and professional services revenues.
Our total segment expenses in BMG increased by 9.6% to $581 million for first quarter 2012 as we experienced higher expenses related primarily to the expansion of sales resources and increased network allocations from RMG.
Moving to Slide 13.
Our Wholesale Markets Group generated $957 million in operating revenues a decrease of 4.2% from pro forma first quarter 2011 as access and long-distance revenues continued to decline but were partially offset by wireless and other wholesale carrier bandwidth revenue growth during the quarter.
Strategic revenues for WMG grew 4.2% to $576 million from pro forma first quarter 2011 primarily driven by continued strong data transport demand from wireless providers.
WMG's legacy revenues declined by 14.6% to $381 million reflecting the continued decline in access revenues.
WMG's operating expenses for the quarter were $278 million 4.1% below the pro forma period from the prior year.
The decline was primarily due to lower professional fees and reduced headcount.
Now turning to Slide 14 and our Savvis Operating Group.
Savvis generated $266 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 3.9% from pro forma first quarter 2011 revenues of $256 million.
This growth came primarily from year-over-year increases of 4% in colocation revenues and over 7.5% in Managed Hosting and cloud services revenues which were partially offset by a 1.5% decline in Network Services revenues.
Savvis' strong fourth quarter 2011 bookings which we discussed last quarter helped drive this revenue growth in first quarter and we believe the continued strong Savvis bookings in the first quarter provide a solid provisioning funnel to support continued revenue growth in the second quarter.
Savvis' operating expenses were $209 million in the first quarter compared to $190 million in pro forma first quarter 2011.
This increase of 10% is driven by the expansion of data center operations and additional sales and marketing staff to support revenue growth.
As shown on Slide 15 we continue to make good progress on our $1.5 billion to $2 billion gross debt repayment program.
In 2011 we set a target to repay $1.5 billion to $2 billion of gross debt on a pro forma basis over the 2-year period ending December 31 2012.
We remain on track to reach this goal as we've accomplished approximately $1 billion of our target through the first quarter.
Recent liability management actions have extended the weighted average maturity of our debt by approximately 2 years and slightly decreased our weighted average interest rate.
The chart illustrates the change in annual debt maturities.
As you can see these recent actions position CenturyLink well from a debt maturity standpoint through 2017.
As a result of the refinancing and debt reductions over the last several months we currently expect interest expense to decline modestly each quarter through the remainder of 2012.
Slide 16 addresses our second quarter and full year 2012 guidance.
For the second quarter 2012 CenturyLink projects total operating revenues of $4.55 billion to $4.6 billion and operating cash flow between $1.86 billion and $1.91 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be $0.59 to $0.64.
For full year 2012 the previously provided guidance for operating revenues free cash flow and capital expenditures remains unchanged from the previous guidance we gave when we reported fourth quarter 2011 earnings.
However primarily as a result of our lower-than-anticipated first quarter operating expenses we now expect operating cash flow to be in the range of $7.45 billion to $7.65 billion and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.35 to $2.55.
Lastly as Glen mentioned earlier we've increased our annual run rate operating expense synergy from the Qwest acquisition to $650 million from $575 million.
The majority of this $75 million increase is driven by non-personnel-related costs primarily in RMG finance and Network Services areas.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just if I could quickly Glen could you go into a little bit more behind the rationale for the restructuring? I guess Chris has left and now Jim I think you're going to be taking over a larger swath of responsibilities.
What are the specific benefits that are supposed to come out of that and is that part of the synergy guidance change? And then second Stewart could you refresh us or remind us kind of where your net operating loss tax carryforward now stands? And as you look out into the future how many years are you now thinking that you'll be shielded from taxes under the current regime? First of all regarding the rationale for the organization change first of all we have a lot of common customers between our BMG -- legacy BMG group and our Savvis group number one.
Secondly we're finding that virtually all of our enterprise customers now are asking and talking about what is -- wanting to talk about cloud and hosting services.
And we believe that bringing those sales groups together manage those groups together will enhance our ability to bring value to those enterprise and business customers.
So that's a major factor there.
And that -- we believe that opportunity will grow in the months ahead.
Of course we have a lot of training to do cross-training to do with our BMG sales folks on cloud and some network training in the Savvis group.
But we'll get that done over time.
And it also consolidates how we approach the enterprise customers with one contact with coordination here.
And we'll have leads and of course experts in different types of services.
But it makes a lot of sense to us.
Secondly if you look at the businesses we moved to RMG and territory the large businesses that we -- where we have local presence and we feel like with our region management system and our general managers we can bring more personalized -- build better relationships in these cities and markets where we have our local operating [indiscernible] business.
So we think it makes a lot of sense and really will drive value for us and for our customers over time.
And David as of the end of 2011 we had $6.2 billion of NOLs and we would expect to be a full taxpayer probably in 2015.
And also on the synergy question David we did not include the reorganization synergies as part of the synergy increase we're talking about with Qwest and -- with Qwest transaction.
Our next question comes from Michael McCormack from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Stewart can you just address the change in guidance? It looks like the benefit on both the EPS and SGF [ph] was reached in Q1.
I'm just trying to get a sense for how we should think about margins as the year progresses.
It looks like again that the guidance increase was already captured.
And then maybe just a quick comment a little more color on the Qwest upside.
You mentioned it was non-personnel.
Is that access or other things we should be thinking about? Yes so Michael basically the change in the guidance most of it was captured.
We always have a seasonal increase in expenses in the second and third quarters really related to our folks being able to get out and do more maintenance on the network and energy cost increase with heating -- with cooling rather in the summer and things like that.
So most of it was really captured in the first quarter.
With respect to margins we'd expect the margin it was a little bit over 42% in the first quarter would expect to end up somewhere in the 41.5% range or so probably for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any Qwest comments? You mentioned it was non-personnel.
I'm just trying to get a sense for what the moving parts were there on the upside.
So basically in the network side I think we've basically been able to consolidate do more from the standpoint of consolidating some of the networks and getting more efficiencies there getting off of third-party networks.
With respect to RMG I think they were just able to basically reduce some of the expenses associated -- that are really -- they're not headcount-related but they're related to getting out of some buildings and things like that.
And then with respect to the finance group basically we were able to reduce some of our insurance costs more than we thought and then just some of the other costs actually building-related costs too that were financed -- that were related to their...
And some contract labor.
And some contract labor.
Contract labor reductions as well both in the finance group and in RMG.
Our next question comes from Dave Coleman from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on your revenue guidance for 2012 if I take the midpoint of the 2Q and the full year revenue guidance it suggests a material improvement in the rate of decline in the second half of the year almost to the point of flat revenues existing -- I'm sorry exiting 2012.
So I was wondering what your revenue trend expectations are for the year and when you would anticipate achieving revenue stabilization.
And then just on the broadband side you continue to post pretty good broadband subscriber numbers.
Just wondering what the source of these new subscribers are if it's new to category or switchers from cable or another broadband provider.
Yes.
So basically on the revenue guidance I mean we do expect revenue to continue to improve throughout the year.
And the reasons that it will continue to improve is one on the RMG side basically we'll continue to add customers with our Prism TV service.
We also expect to add additional broadband customers.
And our folks are doing a really good job on the business side as well attracting new customers and data revenues from our business customers.
On the -- and we expect Savvis revenues to continue to grow throughout the year.
So we believe that will help revenue growth as well during the year or help improve the reduction that we've been seeing in the past.
Yes we're not ready to call yet that we'll get to revenue stability in the fourth quarter but hopefully we should see some continued improvement throughout the year.
And on the -- this is Karen Puckett.
On the high speed really there's 3 categories.
One our local model.
General managers and the local engagement from the team having quota kind of by market has been extremely helpful in visibility into that.
Secondly I would just say the continuation of the change in the go-to-market.
So first off our Price-Lock 5-year Price-Lock as well as our Bundle Your Way [ph] which is something we've had in the market for a couple of quarters now have continued to play extremely well for us.
Our call center continues to perform.
Their Sales Per 100 [ph] continues to go up especially in the legacy Qwest centers that we were attempting to get up to the legacy CenturyLink levels.
And then we've initiated quite a few contact kind of retention strategies that has helped us on the churn side.
So all 3 of those really gave us a great quarter.
Relative to second quarter I would just be mindful that there is seasonality always in second quarter pretty significantly right around Snowbirds.
And so typically that had been [indiscernible] for us.
Now we have Arizona and other areas as well as college students.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> For the BMG unit I believe that you mentioned some personnel increases that caused some pressure on expenses and on margins in the first quarter.
Have you reached the scale that you want now? Can we expect margins for that unit to continue to improve from here? I understand those organizational changes are going to change the overall outlook but would you -- just for that segment would you expect margins to improve? Batya yes.
We believe that the -- now we're going to be changing segments next quarter so it's going to be awfully -- and we're going to have to go back and restate what is BMG segment today because some of their -- all their customers that are in -- for the most part their customers that are in the legacy local exchange areas are going to be moving over to the RMG group.
So we'll have to see what impact that has on margins.
But just from the standpoint of where the sales force is I mean we think the expense associated with the sales force is where it needs to be at this point and don't really expect any continued expansion there in the BMG.
And our next question comes from Scott Goldman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
Maybe Stewart just going back to one of the previous questions and talking in reference to the margin trajectory but help us think through how some of the costs layer in throughout the year.
What would be the timing of that? With the Qwest markets are you still planning on doing 2 Qwest markets throughout the year? And what might be the timing of that and perhaps the timing of some of the other initiatives around hosting and cloud to help us think through that? And then secondly maybe Glen maybe you can help us think about or your latest thoughts on M&amp;A.
Clearly with the synergy guidance hike today I think that suggests you're more comfortable with the Qwest integration progress.
So maybe you could talk a little bit about your appetite for further M&amp;A and what types of assets could be of interest.
Yes so cash expenses we would expect to be up marginally in the second quarter over the first quarter again just due to mostly seasonality and then marginally up again in the third quarter partially due to seasonality there in the utilities and the expectation that we would be increasing cost associated with the Prism TV service and also Savvis where we're adding some data center capacity throughout the year.
And then hopefully costs would flatten out somewhat between third and fourth quarter as those seasonal increases start declining somewhat as the weather cools off.
And Scott regarding the Qwest integration but it is going well.
We're on target there.
We successfully completed the SAP conversion.
We have selected all the major systems now.
We're going to be converting in the months ahead.
So it's going well.
We have more visibility than we had.
So we're feeling good about it.
But there still has to be a lot of focus on integration.
We have to get it right.
So we're not letting up there.
Also we have still Savvis coming in and really the reorganization a lot of focus there.
However as we see these -- the integration really come to fruition like we expect we will continue to first of all focus on our 4 key initiatives like we've talked about: the broadband expansion fiber-to-the-tower our Prism TV and Managed Hosting and cloud services.
That being said we will continue to look at opportunities for inorganic growth and drive shareholder value but more so the further we move down the road with the Qwest integration.
So I'm not ready to tip our hand on what our favorites would be there but we'll be looking at opportunities that we think can drive long-term shareholder value.
And that will be our goal as we look at inorganic opportunities.
Yes Scott it's not really a cash flow item but we would expect depreciation expense to increase marginally each quarter as well as we continue to make investments for growth in the future.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just following up on that Stewart.
Is it -- can you help us or remind us how much incremental IPTV costs you'll see on the OpEx side this year? Yes I think it's about $70 million over last year over 2011.
And our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk to us about the Connect America Fund money that you've been offered and what your thoughts are there and when we might see some announcement of how much of that you might be able to put to use? And then maybe a question for Jim.
Looking at having all of BMG and the Savvis units together how differently will you be going to market? And how should we think about your approach in the enterprise space with those combined assets as opposed to maybe the way Qwest and Century were operating before? Yes Frank so we were allocated about $90 million of the Connect America Fund.
And in very rural areas where we really have the greatest need for support this amount on a per-location basis will not be enough to allow us to really do an economic build-out.
So we're still in the process really of evaluating our opportunities with respect to that fund and we'll make a decision within the 90-day period and talk with the FCC.
And Frank on the enterprise the new enterprise approach clearly we'll still keep focus on network because we have a large base to maintain there.
But more importantly and the reason we brought these together is a very small percentage of the Qwest and BMG customer base today are using any level of Savvis hosting services or even competitor hosting services.
So the opportunity to go to that customer base and leverage our services is very high.
So we'll have a focus on hosting we'll have a focus on network and we'll bring products and services together.
In fact we'll be announcing some in the next few weeks that combines network capabilities with hosting capabilities and cloud capabilities that we can take to that large Qwest base that we think will afford some significant growth opportunities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
One quick follow-up do you have the Qwest data center assets? I think those are under Savvis now? What are the -- what is the outlook for those assets? Were they underutilized? And should we expect to see any -- when should we expect to see that sort of impact the Savvis numbers? We do have those data centers and those were relatively high utilization.
And so we're in the process of one kind of refocusing those.
And also they -- in several cases they weren't up to the Savvis level of data center quality that we need for true enterprise markets.
So we've been upgrading those.
That'll probably take until the end of the year.
And so we'll hopefully be able to expand that by the end of the year.
And one of the reasons we brought it under Savvis was to be able to get it under the Savvis umbrella and then leverage those assets.
So I would say in the second half of the year you'll see some growth from those Qwest assets.
Our next question comes from Armintas Sinkevicius from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys engaged in a significant amount of debt refinancing this quarter.
What sort of visibility do you have with...
Yes we're having trouble hearing you I'm sorry.
Could you speak up? Much better.
Research Division</strong> So you guys have engaged in a significant amount of debt refinancing this quarter.
And just wondering what kind of visibility you have into the rating agencies and how you think about buybacks or dividend increases as we go towards the end of this year and beginning of next.
Yes so basically we'll have our normal conversation with the rating agencies after today in the next week or 2.
And -- but we do plan on really fully executing on the $1.5 billion to $2 billion debt payback that we committed to by the end of the year.
And then the board will talk at the end of the year or early next year about what to do with free cash flow in 2013.
So we can't really make any commitments there now.
It will take the rest of the year really to fulfill the commitment that we have.
Our next question comes from Kevin Smithen from Macquarie.
I noticed there was no change to free cash flow guidance despite the upside in Q1.
Maybe you could talk about the sort of progression of CapEx and working capital puts and takes over the remainder of the year and how you view that.
Are you -- are there anything I'm missing aside from the CapEx? Because even if you keep CapEx flat with the upside in Q1 you should see higher free cash flow for the year.
Yes so the range of guidance that we've given for CapEx is a couple of hundred million dollars.
And we were just -- we really wanted to get further into the year before we adjust free cash flow guidance just to see where we think we're going to end up from a CapEx standpoint.
If we end up towards the top of the CapEx guidance or from the mid to the top then basically we wouldn't be able to raise our guidance on free cash flow.
So we wanted to give ourselves another quarter there to let that flush out a little bit.
So we should think of your CapEx progression as more along the lines of AT&amp;T and Verizon seeing a sequential acceleration versus Frontier who seems like they front loaded more of their CapEx given the warm weather? Yes.
We'll see.
It'll really be pretty -- I would imagine pretty steady for the rest of the year.
We had -- we probably -- our CapEx was unusually high the first quarter this year the cash CapEx because of really a lot of money that we spent and invested at the end of last year and the -- just our payables didn't get paid until after the first of the year.
So that's why the cash CapEx number was higher than it normally is in first quarter.
And expect it to be pretty flat next quarter.
Any further thoughts on Prism TV CapEx for 2013? I had in my notes that you were going to get back to us with some more color at some point as to sort of success-based CapEx there for next year.
I think we need to get through 2012 or further into 2012 and get one of the Qwest markets turn to see if we continue to have the success that we've experienced in the 8 markets that we have today and also get one of the Qwest markets up.
And then I think we'll be able to give some guidance on 2013.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you Sayed.
CenturyLink's first quarter financial results and operating metrics reflect a solid start toward achieving our 2012 objectives.
We're improving our top line revenue trend slowing the rate of our line loss and driving product penetration of our broadband services including Internet and Prism TV and high-bandwidth services.
Our integration of the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions are proceeding well and as a result we've increased the annual synergy run rate to $650 million.
Our operating group restructuring announced in late March became effective April 1 which we expect to drive additional benefits in the integration of Qwest and Savvis.
And we believe this enhances our ability to leverage our asset portfolio to serve our business and government customers.
We expect to continue to invest in our key strategic initiatives as we believe these investments continue to strengthen CenturyLink's ability to compete on a local national and a global scale.
Finally I'd like to invite all of you and the investment community to our Analyst Day that we have scheduled for June 12 at the New York Stock Exchange.
The invitation and registration information will be sent out this week.
We hope you'll be able to attend and meet members of our executive team there.
Thank you for being on our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the months ahead.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you [Zaid].
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink’s second quarter 2012 results released earlier this afternoon.
Let me begin by saying I apologize we got the release out a little later than we have planned; had a little glitch in the release process and we will certainly strive to get it out sooner next quarter.
So thank you for your patience and understanding in that.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations Section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for a Q&amp;A.
On slide two you’ll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for third quarter and full-year 2012; the integration of Qwest and Savvis and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describes factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in are forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
As you turn to slide three your host on today’s call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink’s Chief Financial Officer and also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink’s Chief Operating Officer who leads our Regional Markets Group Bill Cheek President of our Wholesale Markets Group and Jim Ousley Chief Executive Officer of our Savvis and President of our Enterprise Markets Group.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through August 15 2012 and accessible by webcast through August 30 2012.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of August 8 2012 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or reviewed.
As we move to slide four I will now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today as we discuss CenturyLink’s second quarter 2012 results and guidance for the third quarter and full year 2012 as we provide an update as well about our business.
During the second quarter CenturyLink achieved solid results and we continue to make good progress on a number of fronts.
As announced previously we restructured operating groups during the second quarter.
We completed the reorganization successfully with minimal disruption of our business operations; we are pleased with the results of that restructuring.
Our national and international legacy Business Markets Group BMG customers our Savvis customers and Federal Government customers are now served by new Enterprise Markets Group or EMG and our end region large business customers and state and local government customers are now served by our Regional Markets Group RMG.
We believe this restructuring strengthens our ability to better serve our business and government customers locally nationally and internationally.
We also continue to make good progress with integration of Qwest and Savvis and remain on-track to meet our synergy targets for these transactions.
Our operating group restructuring is just one example of how we continue to further integrate these acquisitions in to CenturyLink.
Additionally we continue to see solid bookings in our enterprise business segment and we continue to map integrated network co-location managed hosting and cloud services and we continue to invest in additional data center capacity to position us to drive further growth from these services in the months ahead.
With our fiber-to-the-tower initiative we continue to make excellent progress in completing power builds and enabling high bandwidth Ethernet data services to support the growing demand for wireless data backhaul capacity.
As we have previously discussed while this transition rather than from traditional copper based data services to fiber based data connectivity create some near term revenue pressure we are confident our investments in fiber-to-the-tower will generate good returns and provide solid revenue growth over the seven to 10 year lives of these agreements.
Finally we remain on schedule and launched Prism TV services in our first legacy Qwest market later this year and also on schedule to launch our (inaudible) managed hosting and cloud services platform for businesses in the fourth quarter of this year.
Now turning to slide five.
During the quarter we made good progress in improving our topline revenue trend.
We generated revenue of $4.61 billion or 1.2% year-over-year decline comparing favorably to the 3.8% decline and the 2.7% decline for proforma second quarter 2011 and first quarter of 2012 respectively.
Excluding data integration revenues which widely fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter the annual revenue decline in second quarter was 1.7%.
For full year 2012 we remain on-track to reduce our annual revenue rate of decline to the 1.5% to 2.5% range.
The integration of Qwest and Savvis remain on-track and we will continue to leverage these assets to strengthen our competitive position throughout our operating areas.
As well at the end of the second quarter we achieved an annual synergy run-rate in excess of $380 million related to the Qwest integration.
We continue to expect to end 2012 at an annual synergy run rate of $465 million related to Qwest.
Also in the second quarter we delivered further access line loss improvement and subscriber growth in broadband and Prism TV services.
We continue to scale our Prism TV service in the eight markets where it is available today and are progressing on our plans to roll Prism out in the first leg of Qwest market later this year.
We remain focused on delivering advanced communications solutions and data hosting services to businesses as key factors of improving our topline revenue trend.
As of the second quarter business customers drive more than 60% of our total operating revenues and during the quarter we generated strong strategic data growth from our business customers in both RMG and EMG.
Moving to slide six I’ll provide a few highlights regarding our key strategic initiatives.
As we have outlined we are focused on continued investment in broadband expansion and enhancement.
Prism TV fiber-to-the-tower and managed hosting and cloud computing services; our second quarter results reflects the solid progress we are making in these key initiatives.
Starting with broadband expansion enhancement we continue to make significant investments and during the second quarter we had over 18 000 high speed Internet subscribers.
We saw some weakness in demand but second quarter is a seasonally weak quarter as we have significant presence in two snow bird states Florida and Arizona.
Our customer retention efforts and the growth benefits of bundling broadband with other products and services resulted in the continued decline of the rate of access line loss in our business improving with 7.4% in the second quarter 2011 to 6.1% at second quarter of 2012.
We expanded our Fiber-To-The-Node [FTTN] infrastructure to an additional 215 000 living units during the quarter and now passed nearly 6.6 million living units with Fiber-To-The-Node and we expect to pass approximately 7 million living units by end of this year.
As a result our network investment enhancements broadband speed availability has also continued to improve.
Nearly 70% of enabled access lines now receive speeds of 6 megabits or higher and more than 55% of our enabled lines receive 10 megabits or higher and 27% have speeds of 20 megabits or higher.
We expect to continue to make investments in our network to deliver competitive broadband products and services across our markets.
Turning to slide seven; our Prism TV service represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to Cable TV service in the eight markets of where it’s currently available and it continues to perform well for us.
We added over 9 000 Prism TV subscribers during the second quarter into period with over 94 000 subscribers.
The new customers we've added over the past 12 months approximately 50% are new customer to CenturyLink.
We now have a penetration rate of over 9% across the eight markets in which the service is now available.
In addition we continue to enhance our IPTV experience by introducing new functionality and applications.
This quarter we launched our (inaudible) application allowing our customers to aggregate multiple channels on one screen and new TV applications as well including Facebook Picasa Weather Channel Yahoo! Sports and others that we've enabled this quarter.
Prism TV continues to have a positive impact on churn and line loss trends and we experienced a greater than 90% broadband pull-through rate with our Prism TV sales to new customers.
Approximately 65% of Prism customers have a triple play bundle with CenturyLink and the ARPU by the way is between $165 to $170 a really strong average revenue per customer with our Prism bundles.
We continue to see an annualized 350 to 400 basis point improvement in churn for customers taking our Prism product.
We remain focused on expanding our Prism TV enabled footprint in driving additional subscriber growth and we are on-track to launch Prism TV again in our first Qwest market in the coming months.
And turning on to slide eight our third key strategic initiative is investing in fiber builds there are many towers in our service areas economically feasible.
Now these initiatives supports anticipates long term growth in data transport both of which is driven by wireless data traffic expanse our addressable customer footprint by enabling fiber access points to other strategic locations were viable along these routes.
During the second quarter we completed approximately 1 350 fiber builds this is in line with expectations and we continue to anticipate completing 4 000 to 5 000 builds in 2012 as fiber-to-the-tower construction season ramp up through the remainder of the year.
We believe our fiber-to-the-tower program have solidify our wholesale special access revenue for the long-term and assist in stabilizing our revenue trend.
As we discussed with you before we do expect some near term revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers' transition from copper-based DS1s backhaul facilities to fiber based Ethernet services.
And we believe they continue the acceleration in wireless data consumption will drive increases in Ethernet service revenue will offset any revenue compression within a reasonable period of time and provide solid growth over the seven or 10 year lives of the associated contracts.
Moving on slide nine we continue to invest in Managed hosting and cloud service to increase data center capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
During the quarter we announced our 2012 plan data center expansion in seven markets four of which were online in the second quarter.
And we also lost our Savvis Symphony Virtual Private Data Center product cloud solution in (inaudible) and all these service in five locations across three continents.
We continue to focus on leveraging multiple sales channels to drive further growth in data hosting services and at the end of the second quarter we are seeing significant growth in potential sales of hosting products within the EMG network and RMG segments.
And in the months ahead we will focus on allowing hosting product offerings and solutions bundles with existing RMG and EMG network client as we see that demand continuing to grow.
We ended the second quarter with 50 datacenters in North America Europe and Asia with total salable force of about 1.4 million square feet.
On July 31 we announced the acquisition of certain assets Ciber’s Global IT Outsourcing or ITO business.
The addition of these assets will complement Savvis existing ITOs assets by expanding their capabilities for application management services and help desk support.
And now on slide 10 and a summary I am pleased with our second quarter financial results.
We continue to improve our top line revenue trend.
Our employees did a good job of containing costs and we've generated solid cash flows during the quarter.
We reduced our access line losses by 22% compared to proforma second quarter of 2011 and we grew high speed internet and Prism customer bases during the quarter.
We also made solid progress in our key strategic initiatives that we believe positions us well to continue to improve our top line revenue trend in the months ahead.
Let me now turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the second quarter and then I'll provide a brief liability management update and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the third quarter and full year 2012 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Now turning to slide 12 first in order to provide more relevant comparisons I will be reviewing the financial results on a pro forma basis as if Savvis was fully included in the results of all periods.
I will also be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
With that let's turn to our results for the second quarter.
As you can see we generated strong operating revenues and solid cash flows.
Operating revenues were $4.6 billion on a consolidated basis exceed in our guidance for the quarter and represent a 1.2% decline from pro forma second quarter 2011 operating revenues.
This also represents a solid improvement from the 3.8% revenue annual decline in the year ago period.
Excluding data integration revenue the year-over-year decline in revenue is 1.7%.
Strategic revenue in the quarter increased to 45% of total revenue from 43% in pro forma second quarter a year ago due to growth in strategic products such as high-speed internet data services Prism TV and Managed hosting services.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.65 exceeding guidance by driven primarily by higher growth and strategic revenue than anticipated and a one-time adjustments to depreciation expense.
As we discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items as certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments.
Total cash operating expenses increased modestly from pro forma second quarter a year ago to second quarter 2012 with synergy achievement and other cost reductions partially offset by continued investments in our key strategic initiatives as well as other related revenue growth.
We generated solid operating cash flow of approximately $1.9 billion for the second quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 41.2%.
Additionally we generated $779 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash taxes paid interest cash interest as well as capital expenditures and an additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet the business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
As a result our operating group restructured that Glen discussed earlier the segment financial information has been realigned this quarter to support this new operating structure.
We have also provided a supplemental financial schedule this quarter that provides restated historical quarterly segment financial information retroactive to first quarter 2011.
The four segments are defined as follows regional markets group is reported as one segment and includes region market groups financial information as previously reported along with revenues and related direct and allocated costs associated with the in region large business customers and state and local government customers transferred through the region markets group from legacy business markets group.
In appliance markets group is operated and reported as two segments first the network services segment includes the network services revenues and related direct and allocated cost associated with the national and international business markets grew customers and federal government customers transferred to EMG from BMG along with Savvis operating group's network services customers.
Second the data hosting services segment includes Colocation and Managed Hosting and Cloud services revenues and related direct and allocated cost associated with the national and international business markets group customers and federal government customers transferred to the EMG group from legacy BMG group along with Savvis operating groups data hosting services customers.
Wholesale market groups is reported as one segment and includes the wholesale market groups financial information as previously provided along with revenues and the related direct and allocated costs associated with the Savvis operating group wholesale customers that we transferred by Savvis.
Now turning to slide 13 I will begin the operating segment’s discussion today with our regional markets group.
Regional markets group generated $2.48 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 2.6% over pro forma second quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues grew to $894 million in the quarter up 5.8% pro forma year-over-year excluding the impact of product line revenue strategic revenues grew approximately 7%.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined to $122 million or 7.5% from pro forma second quarter 2011 due primarily to a continuing decline in revenues related to access lines.
Our expanse reductions for the second quarter compared to the previous year were mainly driven by lower employee related costs professional fees and marketing and advertising costs which were partially offset by higher Prism TV and data integration expenses.
Moving to slide 14 our wholesale markets group generated $944 million in operating revenue a decrease of 4.1% from pro forma second quarter 2011.
This decline was a result of wireless and other wholesale carrier bandwidth revenue growth being more than offset by the continued decline in access and long distance revenues.
Strategic revenues for WMG grew 2.1% to $572 million from pro forma second quarter 2011 primarily driven by continued strong data transport demand from wireless providers.
WMG’s legacy revenues declined by 12.3% to $372 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long distance revenues.
WMG’s operating expenses for the quarter were $286 million or 6.8% below the pro forma period from a year ago.
Moving to slide 15 EMG network services segment generated $648 million in operating revenues during the second quarter which represented an increase of 2% from pro forma second quarter 2011.
The second quarter represented the second consecutive quarter of sequential growth in recurring revenues for the network services segment.
Second quarter strategic revenues for EMG network services increased by $9 million or 2.8% to $333 million from pro forma second quarter 2011 driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and DWDM.
Excluding private line services strategic revenue grew nearly 7% from the pro forma year ago period.
Legacy revenue for EMG network services declined by $8 million from pro forma second quarter 2011 due primarily to declines in local and legacy WAN services while data integration revenues increased $12 million or 14% due to higher equipment sales and professional services revenues from government and enterprise customers.
Our total segment expenses in EMG network services were virtually flat from a same period a year ago.
Now turning to slide 16.
In our EMG Data Hosting Services segment which is primarily legacy Savvis operations.
This segment generated $277 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 6.5% from pro forma second quarter 2011 revenues of $260 million.
There is an additional $45 million of data hosting revenues reflected in other segments.
We expect to provide a schedule that will reflect total data hosting revenues across this company on our website early next week.
This growth came primarily from year-over-year increases of 4.7% in collection revenues and 11.5% in managed hosting and cloud services revenues and a modest increase in network services revenues.
Strong bookings in data hosting services in the prior two quarters helped drive this revenue growth in the second quarter.
A solid pipeline and additional capacity will support continued revenue growth in the second half of 2012.
EMG data hosting operating expenses were $211 million in the second quarter compared to $196 million from pro forma second quarter 2011.
This increase of 7.7% is driven by an added headcount in operations and sales and marketing staff to support revenue growth.
As reflected in slide 17 we continue to make good progress on our liability management plans.
In 2011 we set a target to repay $1.5 billion to $2 billion of gross debt from pro forma basis as of December 31 2010 over the two-year period ending December 31 2012.
We remain on track to reach this goal as we've accomplished approximately $1.5 billion of our target excluding debt financings year-to-date for July.
If you consider year-to-date refinancings including the associated premiums incurred to call data associated with the refinancings we've accomplished about $1.1 billion of our target.
Recent liability management actions have extended to weighted average maturity of our debt by approximately two years and slightly decreased our weighted average interest rate.
The chart reflects the change in annual debt maturities and as you can see these recent actions positions CenturyLink well from a debt maturity standpoint through 2017.
Maturities over the five year period of 2013 through 2017 have declined over 35% from $9 billion to $5.6 billion making the annual maturities over that period very manageable.
As a result of the refinancing and debt reductions over the last several months we currently expect interest expense to decline modestly each quarter through the remainder of 2012.
The Pension Relief Act passed as part of the highway bill in June reduced our required pension contributions by approximately $1 billion over the next three years.
We currently expect our required contribution to be $100 million in 2013.
This compares with an unexpected contribution of about $500 million in 2013 prior to the passage of the legislation.
Slide 18 addresses our third quarter and full year 2012 guidance.
CenturyLink expects growth and strategic revenue in the third quarter.
However we also expect third quarter 2012 revenues to be negatively impacted by the decline in access revenues as a result of the implementation of the FCC’s USF/SEC transformational order and the reduction effective July 1 2012 in monthly universal service contribution rate assessed to end users which will be partially offset by the implementation of Access Recovery Charges in accordance with the order.
The total negative revenue impact of these three items on the third quarter compared with the second quarter will be about $25 million.
Operating expenses are also anticipated to increase in the third quarter of 2012 as compared to second quarter of 2012 due to the normal seasonality of outside plant maintenance and utility costs which we believe approximates an additional $50 million increased data center operating costs as a result of some of the expansions that we’ve done in our data hosting area; and higher depreciation and amortization of approximately $20 million which will be partially offset by other operating efficiencies.
For the third quarter of 2012 CenturyLink projects total operating revenues of $4.54 billion to $4.59 billion and operating cash flow between $1.82 billion and $1.86 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be $0.54 to $0.59.
The company expects fourth quarter 2012 operating revenues and operating cash flow to increase compared to third quarter 2012 due to anticipated continued growth in strategic revenues and lower outside plant maintenance and utility marketing costs.
Slide 19 reflects our full-year 2012 guidance.
Our operating revenue we expect it to be $18.3 billion to $18.4 billion which is consistent with the guidance that we gave last quarter or actually it's up a $100 million on the lower end.
Our operating cash flow from $7.5 billion to $7.65 billion adjusted diluted EPS from $2.45 to $2.55 capital expenditures from $2.7 billion to $2.8 billion and free cash flow from $3.25 billion to $3.4 billion.
In essence we've tightened our ranges and increased the midpoints of our guidance by moving the bottom of our ranges up to reflect our year-to-date performance Turning to Slide 20 in summary we are investing to drive growth in our strategic initiatives that we believe will result in continued improvement of our top line revenue trend.
We continue to believe a solid balance sheet is important to have financial flexibility and feel confident about our cash flow generate-ability which allows CenturyLink to return meaningful cash to our shareholders.
That concludes our prepared remarks for you today.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
(Operator Instructions) and our first question comes from Simon Flannery [Morgan Stanley].
You mentioned the pension impact.
Can you give us an update on the labor negotiations with the contract up in October and what you are hoping to achieve from those.
Also noted that you were doing some metro fiber builds in Charlotte.
Perhaps you can provide a little bit more color on how extensive those metro deployments are and are we going to see more of those over time and what’s the sort of the payback on some of those projects? Yes Simon.
Regarding the union negotiations we are not going to really discuss any specifics at this time but we could be looking for ways to really better align our cost of revenue sources.
That will be our primary objective.
The Qwest contract expires October 6th.
We’ll be well prepared for the possibility of a strike but we remain really cautiously optimistic that we will be able to reach agreement with the CWA and IBEW.
We will negotiate in good faith and expect the CWA and IBEW leaders do the same.
However you just never know until the negotiations are over as we have seen this past week with AT&amp;T sort of things happening there.
But we're cautiously optimistic and have begun preliminary discussions with them.
And Simon on the metro fiber build at Charlotte I am not familiar with that one.
(Inaudible) build I know that we do we are building to customers as we pickup additional customers and it makes sense from an economic standpoint.
So there is no real change in your mix of CapEx? No there is no real change.
I mean we are doing some data center builds.
We are building in some data centers that we have not been built into previously.
We are also in conjunction with Savvis doing some work there to basically integrate their network with our network and give some redundancy to some of the data centers that Savvis has.
So we are doing some things like that but there is no real specific change in our CapEx budget or philosophy there.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan [Raymond James] Can you give us an idea on the enterprise side so what percentage of new RFPs and things are incorporating more to the Savvis type products versus the more traditional voice and data products.
And looking at your fiber-to-the-tower expansion there are there any fiber-to-the-tower builds that you are seeing that are uneconomic that you're walking away from or you are pretty much going after everything that comes up? Frank I'll get the last one first.
With respect to fiber-to-the-tower we are walking away from some of the builds that aren’t economic for us.
It's really very very insignificant I think and I mean generally if we can't build a tower no one else can either.
And we are not seeing a lot of people build in our markets that we're aware of from the standpoint of the towers that we wouldn’t be willing to build to.
So with the agreements that we have with major carriers and some of the smaller carriers as well we feel very good about our ability to be able to capture the revenue that would otherwise be cannibalized from the wireless providers.
Frank I'll make a brief comment about the (inaudible) to talk to more about your question about the RFPs.
I don’t have the RFP percentages but I just know in our dealing with customers and the request we are receiving from our large customers I would say that the vast majority are talking about the Savvis type or the cloud hosting products that I talk with.
And that as I talk with our sales folks around the country and they are very interested; some long sales cycles here but a lot of interest.
And Jim you want to -- Frank I would just reinforce that now with the combination of the old BMG enterprise sales force working together virtually every one of our major enterprise CenturyLink customers are now interested in talking about Savvis products.
So we are not seeing a big change in the RFP type alignment; but clearly every major customer is now talking about Savvis products and vice-versa.
The Savvis enterprise customers are requesting information on CenturyLink capabilities so we are going to see leverage from it no question about it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Barden [Bank of America-Merrill Lynch].
Hey guys this is Julia (inaudible) for Dave.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess just on synergies and so where they are coming in this year; is it more sort of fourth quarter weighted or are we going to see some in the third quarter; may be just some detail on kind of exactly where those synergies are coming from? And then just a side note you guys put in the supplemental breakdown of Savvis; are going to continue to give that going forward? Thanks.
So we ended the quarter at a run rate of about $380 million so we still expect ending the year about $465 million or so.
We will see incremental synergies in the third quarter and then we will see some other incremental synergies in the fourth quarter as well.
So I would say if you are doing a model basically spread evenly and you will be in a pretty good shape.
Also we will continue to breakout Savvis as we did this quarter and the rest of the year.
And we're probably going to do more than just bringing Savvis out; I think we're going to provide you with a schedule.
We have data hosting.
Our segments are really more about customers.
So we have customers the Wholesale Group and the RMG Group that also have hosting services and we are basically going to provide you a schedule of all of the hosting revenue across the company so we’ll get that hopefully on the website next week or so.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from [Nicole Black] Stewart I was hoping you could clarify the comment you made about the $1.5 billion debt reduction excluding debt refinancing we look at that does not net out the $2 billion of bond issuance that CenturyLink did in March of the $900 million of bond issuance that Qwest Corp.
has done this year?  So basically when we first look at the debt pay downs that we will do; we didn’t know what refinancings we will do.
So we basically looked at the maturities that were coming up as well as the other debt that was going to be coming due.
The debt was going to be coming due plus other debt that I am not able to recall.
And we were going to get to $1.5 billion to $2 billion.
The $1.5 billion really includes everything that we have paid off to-date that was a scheduled maturity or something that we could call early.
The other the $1.1 billion really takes into consideration all the refinancings that we did and the associated premiums that we had to pay as well.
So we paid about $350 million to $400 million of premiums associated with the debt that we called associated with the refinancings that allowed us to really get our maturity towers to where we needed to get them for the next five years.
Does that mean $1.1 billion is how much you have accomplished against the $1.5 billion to $2 billion goal?  If you look at it that way then basically we will probably get towards the lower end of the range maybe $1.4 billion or $1.5 billion or so because we have got a $319 million maturity that comes up August 15th that we expect to pay off and put it in credit facility but we’ll ultimately pay that off.
If not by the end of fourth quarter or sometime during the first quarter; if you count the premiums that we had to pay and in fact then we’ll get closer to the $2 billion.
So that’s a way to look at it.
The way to look at it really is we’ll get kind of towards the bottom end if you look at net debt more or less; if you look at the debt including the premiums that we had to pay then basically we’ll be closer to the top-end of the range.
And then at your Analyst Day I believe you cited that your leverage target of 2 to 2.5 range; do you have a timeframe associated with that?  Yeah we really don’t; I mean our leverage with leases was about 2.8 times trailing 12 months and in the third quarter probably about 2.7 times or so to exclude leases and our target is more or less in that range but not any specified period of time to get to there.
And the ratings agencies do count leases in their calculations correct?  Yeah they do and of course Moody’s has in their calculation and their target for us is to get down to 3 times and we are a little bit over 3 times now based on the target that they have for our rating.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Chris King [Stifel Nicolaus].
I just wanted to follow-up a little bit on the regulatory issues that are impacting you in the third quarter to the tune of $25 million or so.
And realizing there is a lot that’s yet to be decided at the SEC level in terms of timing up of step downs and subsequent recovery mechanisms.
Just was wondering if we could get your quick thoughts on kind of how you see that at least at this stage playing out over 2013 and as they say right now you guys expecting to see another kind of $25 million step down in the middle of 2013 is that kind of your internal plans for right now and then secondly just wanted to get any of your latest thoughts regarding special access I guess re-regulation at the (inaudible) and where that currently stands in your mind? Thanks.
So Chris the $25 million inclusive of $15 million step down in the USF contribution right you know that will result in reduced revenue but it also results in reduced expense for us as well the way we account for.
The access reform on a net basis if you take the access charges that reduction which is I remember right about $30 million $27 million $30 million and you net that with the increase that we can flow through to our customers it nets to about $10 million negative in the third quarter and of course that will recur it will be flat in the fourth quarter.
So next July we will see another step down really don’t know how much at this point and then we're in the process of building on our 2013 performance to go over with board and we will have that done by the mid-September so timeline but wouldn’t expect anything more significant in the step down than we saw this year.
Thanks.
And on the special access? Yeah basically I mean you know we provided additional information to the SEC we know that this is something that’s on their agenda to look at over time I mean its been there for long time I mean at this time there is plenty of competition in special access market so we don’t really foresee any re-regulation of special access I mean that would really be the long shot if that were to happen its probably not in the near term.
Our next question comes from Scott Goldman [Goldman Sachs].
I wonder if you can may be talk a little about the revenue trajectory you guys highlighted in the $25 million impact in the third quarter but the trajectory would suggest the second half it should be about 1.2% decline and may be even little bit worse presumably in part due to 25 million with potential possibly even sequential step up in the fourth quarter I just wonder if you guys can just kind of way out the trajectory for revenue and what some of the drivers there in the (inaudible) as well?  So if you look at the fourth quarter probably there will be about 6% decline 1.6% decline from the year ago.
Is it 1.6%?  Yeah about 1.6% probably.
I assume part of that just a tougher comp from the year ago quarter? Yeah.
And so I mean if your say 1.2 now obviously a tougher comp how do you think about the trajectory over revenue going into 2013 in your ability to possibly even grow revenue on a sequential basis.
Yeah we are getting closer than before and if you take our last six quarters or eight quarters and just plow them out you can see that we make really good progress in terms of getting the hopefully flattening out revenue and starting to grow revenue you know we mentioned in our EMG network segment to exclude the CPE type revenue basically that fluctuates you know we've seen our second quarter of sequential growth so we are getting close I mean we are not ready to put a stake in the ground and say its 2013 or some time in 2013 or 2014 but we are definitely moving closer and we would expect our revenue decline in ’13 to be lower than the decline that we end up with in 2012 because we expect continued growth in the network area we are having good success with the local model that we have put in place in the markets where we are the primary telephone company and we are seeing improved growth we think in the second half of this year with respect to the data hosting revenues.
So I mean if we think that’s setting it pretty well.
And then just to follow-up on your commentary about the network segment I thought you know I was looking at the proforma information you put out looks like a nice step up on the year-over-year improvement in strategic services but in equally good step down actually and the rate of decline in the legacy services so maybe you can talk a little bit about what's driving that and just what your expectations are for data integration for the back half of the year.
Data integration is hard to say I mean we've got a number of deals in the pipeline but it's hard to say when they might close that gets pushed from time to time and quarter to quarter.
In terms of the strategic revenue I mean we are seeing s good growth there.
We are seeing good opportunities with larger business customers that have asked us to take a look at being a participant in providing services to them or taking over one of the other larger carriers or MPLS.
And Ethernet growth is really strong and we expect it to continue to be strong during the rest of the year.
And some of that revenue growth is actually cannibalizing some of the other revenues that we have some of the legacy revenues that we have.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael (inaudible).
Just looking at the Prism TV adds in the quarter they are maybe little bit lighter than I would have expected given how new you guys are in that business.
I was just wondering if you could talk about anything in the competitive environment that you are seeing or if there are any changes that you guys are anticipating making in terms of maybe promoting the service or anything else that you might be thinking or planning to jump start growth in Prism adds as you go forward? In terms of the Prism TV I mean in general second quarter has weak seasonality and high speed and in Prism and when I look at overall we're happy with our inward.
From a competitive standpoint we continue to get really good comments from our customers and depending on which market at least 50% of our customers are new to our company and so it is a big inward driver for us.
As we expand we'll continue work on just a distribution of the inwards but not any competitive issues.
In fact we are very pleased with the performance of (inaudible) right now.
And we do expect to increase some of the advertising in some of these markets in the last half of the year as well Michael.
Our next question comes from [Brian Turner].
Just one quick for me.
Can you give us any color on potential conversations you have had with the rating agencies as you look forward towards the end of the year and into 2013.
Specifically have they provided any granularity around the criteria they might be looking for in order to maintain or stabilize the current ratings? Yes Brian well we are not investment grade at S&amp;P.
So we are finding their terms of the writing that we have today and wouldn’t expect to get an upgrade there until we can show that we can stabilize revenue and start growing cash flow again.
With respect to Moody’s and Fitch on Moody’s we have had conversations with them.
They are target more or less to take the negative outlook of the parent company is to -- is basically for them to be able to see that we can get down to three times debt to EBITDA based on their calculation and they are willing to give us some time to do that and they understand where we are.
We have a conversation with them each quarter and we have face to face visits a couple of times a year.
We expect to be able to give them our 2013 projections probably sometime after we meet with our Board in September.
And again I think they want to be able to see clearly that we can get down to three times leverage on their basis in order to remove the negative outlook.
With Fitch the dividend payout ratio is more of what they look at and it's about 55% which is in line with where we are.
I think they are willing to potentially give us a little flexibility if we need to make other investments that they can see are strategic investments from the standpoint of driving revenue in the future or preserving revenue.
And example of that is fiber-to-the-tower.
So that's kind of where we are at the agencies.
Thank you.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you (inaudible).
We are pleased with the continued progress we made during the second quarter for stabilizing topline revenues in our business.
And we believe our continued investment in what we see as key strategic opportunities will help us continue to drive growth both near term and long term.
Our strategic revenues continue to grow nicely and our guidance reflects our expectations that our revenues from strategic services will continue to grow in the months ahead.
We also remain focused to ensuring that our operating costs are in line with our revenue mix and on achieving our operating expense synergy targets for the successful completion of the Qwest and Savvis integrations.
Additionally the expansion of our Prism TV service and launch of managed hosting and cloud services for small and medium-sized businesses and customers.
Later this year we will further strengthen our product portfolio and provide us additional revenue and growth opportunity as we look into 2013.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CenturyLink's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's third quarter 2012 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
On Slide 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for fourth quarter and full year 2012 some outlooks for 2013 the integration of Qwest and Savvis and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Now turning to Slide 3.
Your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
And also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer who leads our Regional Markets Segment; Bill Cheek President of our Wholesale Markets Segment; and Jim Ousley Chief Executive Officer of Savvis and President of our Enterprise Market Segment.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through November 14 2012 and accessible by webcast through November 28 2012.
Anyone listening to a tape or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of November 7 2012 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to Slide 4 I will now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
First I want to express my sympathies to those affected by the storm along the East Coast last week.
Located in Louisiana we of course are all too aware of the devastation of hurricanes and tropical storms can create and our thoughts are with all those affected.
CenturyLink did experience some operational disruptions as a result of the storm.
However we are pleased that all of our East Coast data centers remained fully functioning during the storm so we could continue to serve our customers during this difficult time.
Early indications are that we experienced about $5  million to $6 million of operating and capital expenses as a result of the storm so we were relatively displaced less than I know many were.
I also want to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication to ensuring the best possible service for our customers during this difficult time.
Now I'll turn to discuss CenturyLink's third quarter 2012 results and guidance for our fourth quarter and full year 2012 as we provide other updates -- as well as provide other updates about our business.
During the third quarter CenturyLink has achieved solid results and we continue to make progress on a number of fronts.
We remain on track to meet our synergy targets for the Qwest and Savvis transactions and continue to make progress with the integration of these 2 acquisitions.
We continue to see solid growth in our Enterprise Markets and Regional Markets business segment with continued demand for integrated network colocation managed hosting and cloud services.
We also continue to invest in additional data center capacity to drive further growth from these services in the months ahead.
With our fiber-to-the-tower initiative we continue to make excellent progress in completing fiber builds enabling high-bandwidth Ethernet data services to support the growing demand for wireless data backhaul capacity.
We are experiencing some near-term revenue pressure resulting from the transition from copper-based data services to fiber and Ethernet connectivity.
However we are confident that our investment in fiber-to-the-tower will generate good returns and provide solid revenue growth over the lives of these agreements.
We're pleased to announce the soft launch of our Prism TV service in the Phoenix market.
By the end of this year this will be our first legacy Qwest market that we will offer the service.
We anticipate the commercial launch in the first half of 2013.
Additionally we expect to enter our second legacy Qwest market in mid-2013.
Finally in October we launched our click-to-buy managed hosting and cloud service platform for businesses of all sizes and we'll talk a little more about that later on.
Now turning to Slide 5.
We made continued progress in improving our top line revenue trends.
In the third quarter we generated revenue of $4.57 billion a 1.3% year-over-year decline but comparing favorably to the 4.6% decline for pro forma third quarter 2011.
Excluding data integration revenues which widely fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter the annual revenue decline in third quarter was 1.4%.
For full year 2012 we remain on track to reduce annual revenue rate of decline to the 1.5% to 2% range.
The integration of Qwest and Savvis remains on track and we will continue to leverage these assets to strengthen our competitive position throughout our operating areas.
As of the end of the third quarter we achieved an annual synergy run rate of $450 million related to Qwest integration.
We now expect to end 2012 with an annual synergy run rate of $480 million related to Qwest up from $465 million previously anticipated as operating expense savings are being achieved earlier than expected.
Also in the third quarter we achieved strong improvement in access line loss and continued subscriber growth in broadband and Prism TV services.
And during the quarter we generated strong strategic data growth from our business customers in both Regional Markets and Enterprise Markets segments.
As of the third quarter business customers drive more than 60% of our total operating revenues.
As we move forward we remain focused on making disciplined investments in our strategic initiatives to drive growth in top line revenue and over time EBITDA and free cash flow improvement.
Turning now to Slide 6.
I will briefly discuss our preliminary outlook for 2013.
We expect to provide full guidance for 2013 in mid-February when we release our fourth quarter 2012 results.
That said we believe the investments made in our key strategic initiatives have been successful in driving additional strategic revenue growth in 2012 and we expect to continue investing operating capital dollars in these key areas.
We anticipate further improvement in the top line revenue trend in 2013 with a year-over-year rate of decline in the range of 0.5% to 1.5% compared with full year 2012.
We now believe we will reach revenue stabilization in 2014.
As I mentioned we expect to continue to invest in the key strategic initiatives in 2013.
With these strategic investments and the continuing shift in the company's revenue mix along with the lower level of incremental annual synergies in 2013 I anticipate it to negatively impact operating and free cash flows for 2013 as compared with 2012.
Currently due to the high level of synergies achieved in 2012 and late 2011 we anticipate approximately $150 million to $200 million lower incremental synergies in 2013 compared to the level achieved in 2012.
On Slide 7 the chart illustrates the steady improvement we have made in operating revenues and strengthening strategic services and lower access line losses have helped reduced the quarterly rate of decline.
And for the third quarter we achieved a 1.3% rate of revenue decline and we remain on track for a 1.5% to 2% annual revenue decline for full year 2012 a significant improvement over the 3.8% pro forma revenue decline in 2011.
Now turning to Slide 8.
Third quarter revenue declined 0.9% from second quarter 2012 as growth in strategic revenue was offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
Our strategic revenue growth was driven by strength in high-speed Internet and high-bandwidth business data services.
Additionally during the quarter we experienced a small net decrease in the legacy revenues due to the implementation of the CAF Order in which the rate step-down was largely offset by Access Recovery Charges implemented beginning July 1 2012.
Third quarter 2012 revenue declined 1.3% from pro forma third quarter 2011.
Again growth in strategic revenue was offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
MPLS and Ethernet services high-speed Internet managed hosting products and Prism revenue continued to grow.
Now moving to Slide 9 I will provide a few highlights regarding our strategic initiatives.
As we've outlined over the past several quarters we are focused on continued strategic investment in broadband expansion and enhancement Prism TV fiber-to-the-tower and managed hosting and cloud computing services.
Our third quarter results reflect the solid progress we're making in these key initiatives.
Starting with broadband expansion and enhancement we continue to make significant investments in this area.
And during the third quarter we added over 44 000 high-speed Internet customers.
This represents a solid rebound in new subscribers from a seasonally weak second quarter '12.
We -- with these new subscribers we now have more than 5.8% -- 5.8 million broadband customers.
Our customer retention efforts and the growth benefit of bundling broadband with other products and services contributed to the continued decline of the rate of access line loss which improved from 7.1% in third quarter 2011 to 5.8% in third quarter 2012.
We also expanded our fiber-to-the-node infrastructure to more than 310 000 new living units during the quarter.
We now pass over 6.8 million living units with fiber-to-the-node and we expect to pass approximately 7 million living units by end of this year.
As a result of our network investment enhancements broadband speed availability has continued to improve.
Over 70% of our enabled access lines receive speeds of 6 megabits or higher more than 57% of enabled lines received 10 megabits or higher and then 29% have speeds of 20 megabits or higher.
Additionally during the quarter we continued to expand our Ethernet over copper footprint which has increased nearly 70% year-to-date.
We expect to continue to make investments on our network to enhance speed capabilities to deliver competitive broadband products and services across our markets.
Turning to Slide 10 our Prism TV service represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to cable.
In the 8 markets where it is currently available it continues to perform well.
We added over 10 000 Prism TV subscribers here in the third quarter ending the period of more than 104 000 subscribers.
Of the new subscribers we've added over the past 12 months approximately 55% were new customers to CenturyLink.
We now have a penetration rate of over 10% across the 8 markets in which the service is available.
In addition we continue to enhance our IPTV experience by introducing new functionality and application.
Prism TV continues to have a positive impact on churn and line loss trends.
We experienced greater than 90% broadband pull-through rate with our Prism TV sales to new customers.
We continue to expand our Prism TV-enabled footprint and expect to drive additional subscriber growth in the months ahead.
As I mentioned we are on track by the end of the year to soft launch Prism TV in Phoenix which will be our first legacy Qwest market to receive the service.
The Phoenix market will be commercially launched in the first half of 2013 and we expect a second legacy Qwest market in mid-2013.
Continuing onto Slide 11 the third key strategic initiative is investing in fiber builds to as many towers in our service area as economically feasible.
During the third quarter we completed approximately 1 335 fiber builds for a total of over 3 300 year-to-date and we currently anticipate completing 4 000 to 4 500 builds in 2012.
This initiative supports an anticipated long-term growth in data transport much of which is driven by wireless data traffic.
It also expands our addressable customer footprint by enabling fiber access points to other strategic locations where viable along these routes.
We believe our fiber-to-the-tower program helps solidify our wholesale access revenue for the long term and assists in the stabilization of our revenue trend.
As we have discussed with you before we're experiencing some revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers transition to copper-based DS1 facilities to fiber-based Ethernet services.
However we anticipate that wireless bandwidth growth will result in expansion of Ethernet consumption reversing the revenue -- current revenue compression by late 2013.
Moving onto Slide 12.
We continue to invest in managed hosting and cloud services to increase our data center capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
During the quarter we opened a data center in Singapore and expanded capacity in a data center in the New York/New Jersey market.
We ended the quarter with 53 data centers in North America Europe and Asia with total sellable floor space of approximately 1.4 million square feet as we continue to expand the global reach of our managed hosting services.
While we continue to see strong demand in the hosting market third quarter bookings came in lighter than expected as we believe a handful of potential large deals were pushed to the fourth quarter.
We're working hard to improve our prospect-close ratio.
We expect stronger bookings in the fourth quarter and we're focused on opportunities for growth from both new prospects and our current client base.
Savvis was recently recognized as a leader in Gartner's Magic Quadrant for Cloud Infrastructure as a Service.
We also anticipate increasing hosting and cloud expansion opportunities as we further train and enable Enterprise Markets Regional Markets and Wholesale Markets sales channels.
We expect to see incremental revenues from these channels in 2013.
In the months ahead we will focus on allowing -- on aligning hosting product offerings and solutions bundles with existing Regional Markets and Enterprise Markets-Network client needs.
In October we announced the beta launch of Savvis Direct our simplified approach to cloud computing for businesses of all sizes.
And finally we -- on October 15 we closed the acquisition of certain assets of Ciber's global IT Outsourcing or ITO business.
In addition these assets will complement Savvis' existing ITO assets by expanding our capabilities for application management services and help desk support.
And now onto Slide 13.
In summary I am pleased with the third quarter results.
We continue to improve our top line revenue trends.
Our employees did a good job of containing costs and we generated solid cash flows during the quarter.
We reduced our access line losses by 22% compared to the pro forma third quarter 2011 and we achieved high-speed Internet subscriber growth as well as solid increase of Prism customers.
Also the focused investments we have made in our key strategic initiatives have positively contributed to a strategic revenue growth and continued to improve our top line revenue trend.
We believe the soft launch of Prism TV into the Phoenix market towards the end of this year will present -- position us well to grow video subscribers in 2013 and beyond.
And lastly we feel good about leveraging the acquisition of Savvis to generate organic growth.
Our new Savvis Direct product offers the opportunity to gain market share in the fast-growing cloud space across our interior -- entire range of customers.
With this I'll turn this call over to Stewart for in-depth look at our financial results.
Stewart? Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the third quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the fourth quarter and full year 2012 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Turning to Slide 15.
First in order to provide more relevant comparisons I'll be reviewing the financial results on a pro-forma basis as if Savvis were included in the results for all periods.
I'll also be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
With that let's turn to our results for the third quarter.
As you can see we generated strong operating revenues and solid cash flows.
Operating revenues were $4.57 billion on a consolidated basis which was in line with our guidance for the quarter and represented 1.3% decline from pro forma third quarter 2011 operating revenues.
This also represents a solid improvement from the 4.6% annual decline in the year-ago period.
Strategic revenue in the quarter increased to 46% of total revenue from 43% in the pro forma third quarter a year ago due to growth in strategic products such as high-speed Internet high-bandwidth data services Prism TV and managed hosting services.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.66 exceeding the midpoint of our guidance by about $0.095.
The difference from our expectations were driven primarily by lower depreciation and amortization lower-than-expected seasonal plant maintenance lower property taxes and a slightly better-than-expected impact from the implementation of the CAF Order along with higher synergy achievement.
As we've discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments.
Total cash operating expenses decreased from pro forma third quarter 2011 to third quarter 2012 with synergy achievement lower marketing and advertising costs and other cost reductions partially offset by continued investments in our key initiatives as well as other costs related to revenue growth.
We generated solid operating cash flow of approximately $1.9 billion for third quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 41.5%.
Additionally we generated $905 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flow is continuing to provide us with the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Now turning to Slide 16.
I'll begin my operating segments discussion today with our Regional Markets segment.
Regional Markets generated $2.47 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 2.1% over pro forma third quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues grew to $912 million in the quarter up 7.9% pro forma year-over-year.
Excluding the impact of private line revenue strategic services grew approximately 9%.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined $108 million or 6.8% from pro forma third quarter 2011 due primarily to a continuing decline in revenues related to access lines partially mitigated by implementation of the access recovery charge.
Our expense reductions for the quarter compared with the previous year were mainly driven by lower employee-related expenses which were partially offset by higher Prism TV expenses.
Moving to Slide 17.
Our Wholesale Markets segment generated $908 million in operating revenues a decline of 7.6% from pro forma third quarter 2011.
Strategic revenues for Wholesale Markets declined 1% to $568 million from pro forma third quarter 2011 primarily driven by the rate compression in special access services as customers transitioned to Ethernet-based services.
Wholesale Markets legacy revenues declined by 17% to $340 million reflecting the continued decline in access in long-distance revenues and the implementation of the CAF Order rate step-down.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $273 million 11% below the pro forma period from the year -- prior year driven by lower access expense and allocated costs.
Moving to Slide 18 Enterprise Markets Network segment generated $658 million in operating revenues during the third quarter which represented an increase of 5.6% from pro forma third quarter 2011.
The third quarter represented the third consecutive quarter of sequential growth in recurring revenues from a Network Services segment.
The third quarter strategic revenues for Enterprise Markets-Network increased by $23 million or 7.2% to $341 million from pro forma third quarter a year ago driven primarily by strength in high-bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and DWDM.
Excluding Private Line Services strategic revenue grew more than 13% from the pro forma year-ago period.
Legacy revenue declined by $3 million from pro forma third quarter 2011 due primarily to declines in local and legacy Wide Area Network services while data integration revenues increased $15 million or 17% due to higher equipment sales and professional services revenues from government and enterprise customers.
Our total segment expenses declined $13 million from the same period a year ago.
Now turning to Slide 19 and Enterprise Markets Data Hosting segment which is primarily the Savvis legacy operations -- legacy Savvis operations.
This segment generated $280 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 8.1% from pro forma third quarter 2011 revenues of $259 million.
This growth came primarily from year-over-year increases of 7.6% in colocation revenues and 9.2% in managed hosting and cloud services revenues and a 7.1% increase in Network Services revenues.
Strong first half 2012 bookings in hosting services helped drive this revenue growth in the third quarter.
While churn was in line with the expectation for third quarter we do anticipate a slight increase in fourth quarter churn due to bankruptcy-related issues.
The Enterprise Markets Data Hosting operating expenses were $219 million in third quarter compared to $193 million in the pro forma third quarter a year ago.
This increase of 13.5% is driven by added headcounts to support revenue growth including our Savvis Direct operations.
Slide 20 addresses our fourth quarter and full year 2012 guidance which includes the acquisition of Ciber.
The company expects fourth quarter 2012 operating revenues and cash flow to increase compared to third quarter 2012 due to anticipated continued growth and strategic revenues and lower outside plant maintenance and utility costs.
Additionally we expect depreciation and amortization to be $20 million to $30 million higher for fourth quarter 2012 than it was for the third quarter due to higher balances of plant in [ph]   service and a onetime adjustment to software amortization that occurred in the third quarter.
For the fourth quarter 2012 CenturyLink projects total operating revenues of $4.56 billion to $4.61 billion and operating cash flow between $1.9 billion and $1.94 billion and adjusted EPS is expected to be $0.64 to $0.69.
To reflect the year-to-date performance and fourth quarter expectations we've also updated our previously given full year 2012 guidance and this is provided in our press release.
Turning to Slide 21.
In summary we're generating solid strategic revenue growth.
We achieved good cost containment during the quarter and achieved Qwest synergies earlier than anticipated -- originally anticipated.
And finally we continue to believe a solid balance sheet is important to our financial flexibility and feel confident about our cash flow generating ability which allows CenturyLink to return meaningful cash to our shareholders.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Barden from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask maybe a couple more strategic questions if I could Glen.
Obviously in the last couple of months I think that there's been some maybe erroneous reports that CenturyLink was trying to buy TW Telecom and your stock took it on the chin to the tune of a couple of dollars as result of those reports which I think were later actually retracted.
But I was wondering if you could kind of set the table a little bit based on where you are in the integration and what your appetites are when we see these kinds of reports how should we be reacting to them? And then I guess the second question is -- obviously the free cash flows are coming in ahead of expectations.
The guidance is going up.
I know that you guys have talked about stock buybacks as a priority for cash but could you revisit your thinking about how you consider the dividend -- being a dividend-paying company versus maybe being a dividend growth company looking into maybe next year? Yes.
David first of all regarding the acquisition rumors and where we are with these 2 for inorganic growth we have -- really we're focused on the -- investing in our 4 primary growth initiatives that we've talked about: the broadband expansion and enhancement fiber-to-the-node fiber-to-the-tower initiative the managed hosting cloud service and our Prism TV services.
The integration of Qwest and Savvis is going well but there's still a lot to do.
We're achieving expected -- hit our objectives in terms of synergies but there's a lot of work to do.
These are large acquisitions and to do them right it's going to take more time as we've stated previously.
So there's a lot of focus there.
We don't feel the need to acquire in order to drive growth.
Our 4 initiatives have strong potential for driving growth and our size is good.
We don't need the additional synergies necessarily that additional acquisitions would bring.
We'll continue to evaluate investment opportunities that arise both organic and inorganic but we don't feel compelled to make an acquisition.
We'll be focused on ways to create [ph] value for shareholders but there's no -- we don't feel compelled and we are not out beating the bushes looking for an acquisition.
So I'll leave it at that.
That's pretty much how we feel about our position here.
As far as increasing the dividend or stock buybacks that's obviously a question that we consider continually with our board.
We'll continue to evaluate the best ways to create value for shareholders.
Obviously how we utilize our cash is a key component of that process.
We'll consider our future reduced debt and the value of debt reduction.
We'll look at the benefits of increasing the dividend or buying back stock --  what that can mean to value for shareholders.
And we'll continue to consider investment opportunities both organic and inorganic that can drive value for shareholders.
These are obviously important and complex considerations and we'll continue our very disciplined approach to these types of investment decisions.
Again with the objective of really maximizing long term shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> Glen if I could just follow up on that real quick.
Obviously we saw about 2.3% increase in the dividend from AT&amp;T today and I think the investors tend to look at dividend growth companies as being a higher value proposition than simply companies that pay out a dividend.
Do you agree with that that statement and do you think that CenturyLink has it within its financial wherewithal to maybe support that kind of limited amount of dividend growth but growth nevertheless? I'm sorry do I support what? Agree with what statement? Research Division</strong> The idea that there's a higher value to companies that grow their dividend even if it's only a small amount as opposed to just simply keeping a dividend steady through time.
Yes I have seen some studies that indicate that companies that grow their dividend do drive value -- good value for shareholders.
So yes I have seen some of that and I don't have any -- don't disagree with the studies.
It's something that we consider as we talk about our use of free cash flow basically every quarter and certainly every year.
We talk in detail about what's the best way for us to drive long term shareholder value and we realize that growing dividends is one way that companies have done that over time.
So it is part of our consideration.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> A question on revenue trends.
Revenue decline has been consistently improving every quarter for a while now.
You mentioned in 4Q you're expecting some churn from Savvis.
Can you -- maybe can you clarify do you still expect Savvis to -- Savvis revenue growth to accelerate to double digits in 4Q? And your 4Q guidance suggests that revenue decline will stay at flattish.
Is that a function of this churn that we talked about or what else is in there? And then mainly just a clarification for your longer-term guidance for revenue stabilization in '14.
Do you expect some stabilization in '13 end of '13 and then maybe flat revenues in '14 or will we see some declining trends in '14? Batya this is Glen.
I'll talk on this start about Savvis and I'll ask Jim Ousley to also comment.
The churn absolutely impacted us a couple of companies that were in bankruptcy -- it impacted us during the quarter.
Also just the longer decision-making process that we're seeing with some enterprise customers we think that impacted the -- or affected the bookings for the third quarter.
That will of course roll into the fourth quarter as far as our revenue growth and early next year.
However we feel very good about the demand that's out there the potential the interest from customers the potential funnel that we have out there.
So we still feel very good about the growth here.
It's just a matter of getting some of these deals closed and secondly just the churn that we experienced or experienced in the latter part of this year.
Jim you want to? Yes this is Jim Ousley and I would just support what Glen said.
We do -- we would expect that fourth quarter hosting revenue will be double digit kinds of growth levels.
So we still stand by that what we've been saying.
And the effects of 2 major churn events in the fourth quarter which were bankruptcies will flatten it a little more but it'll still be double digit and we see no downturn in demand.
As we and some of our competitors have stated before the only issue we're seeing is the elongation of decision-making for Savvis Direct [ph]   large enterprise customers are clearly taking longer.
They're not buying.
They're just taking longer to make decisions.
Hopefully that'll ease with the election and all the other issues and the macroeconomics issue.
But we're still seeing strong demand.
Research Division</strong> Maybe the question about longer-term revenue decline.
Would you expect some stabilization in 2013? Batya with respect to the statement that Glen made in the release on revenue stabilization in '14 we really hope -- hopefully we'll have revenues such that in 2014 it'll be equivalent to a 2013 revenue on a full year basis.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Glen can you just update us on the labor negotiations? Where are we at this point? Any hope of a near-term resolution? We've obviously seen Verizon strike a deal.
Presumably there's a little bit of a template there.
And Verizon and AT&amp;T have made some differing proposals on their pension.
Have you got any interest in pursuing either of those sort of approaches? And maybe if you can just talk a little bit about CapEx levels for '13? We obviously saw AT&amp;T increase their capital spending.
Are you likely to hold capital budgets pretty similar to 2012? What's implied in your initial guidance? Simon first of all on the pension that AT&amp;T and Verizon have done the stabilization there.
We were looking evaluating them and made no decisions there.
Stewart may want to talk about that more in a moment.
But we have -- it's an area we are looking at and evaluating.
As far as labor negotiations the current contracts with the legacy Qwest unions were set to expire on October 6.
We and the unions agreed to extend the current agreements day-to-day as we continue the negotiations.
Our primary focus on these discussions of course is to more closely align our cost structure with the competitive marketplace the revenue streams that we are seeing and operating in while continuing to provide our employees competitive wages and benefits.
So that's our goal here.
We have a number of issues to work through but we believe we're making progress with these negotiations.
And we're not targeting a specific date that we want to complete this agreement by but we are hopeful that the process can be resolved without too much further delay.
We believe we are again making progress in these discussions.
And the final question on CapEx we expect CapEx to be in the range it is in 2012.
It can be slightly higher as we due to some expansion of the data center expansion and along with the Prism TV investments.
And this is pursuing our strategic initiatives.
But we are going to take a very disciplined approach to those investments and if we just see any increase involved [ph] it will be what we expect revenue gains in the relatively near future from those investments.
Simon just a couple of quick comments on the negotiations.
Qwest either the last time they renegotiated the contract or the time before last they moved new bargaining unit employees that are hired subsequent to that date over to a cash balance plan.
So there is no longer really a defined benefit plan for the new Qwest employees.
And again secondly we are reviewing what others have done with respect to the plans and we'll decide at some point if we want to try to execute a transaction similar to what has been done.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the Savvis side I'm seeing you're working on some more customer-facing cloud products for SMB customers and small -- a little simpler interface and so forth.
Where does that stand? How successful is that? And then just on a bigger picture you've been consistently hitting and exceeding the guidance targets on top line and cash flow and so forth which is refreshing.
What would it take for you to get to positive top line growth in 2013? I mean you're guiding to maybe negative 0.5% that's getting pretty close.
Is that a possibility and what would have to change? Is that more of a macro issue? Yes Frank first of all Savvis Direct we had our launch our self-launch in October and it's going well thus far.
We have a lot of high hopes anticipation for the success of this product.
It's a one click easy-to-use web-based solution and we're seeing lots of interest from customers.
Of course it will start in the small and midsized businesses where we see the most interest but also there'll be you'll have the large enterprise business who will eventually use more of the public cloud and this one-click type [indiscernible] that we're providing there.
So it is a significant rollout for us and we believe it's going to have a major impact in the years ahead on the growth.
As far as top line growth and what would have to take place and we just have to see some of these new initiatives take off a little faster than we anticipate.
Now we're trying to be conservative on those but if they were to take off faster the rollouts were a little more quickly done and the penetration rates exceeded what we were anticipating and that could change the -- we'd see some increases there.
But that's what it would really require.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the sort of 2013 look that you've given us.
And I know Glen you had mentioned obviously the Qwest synergy opportunity won't be there obviously in '13.
But if it weren't for the Qwest headwind would you have expected EBITDA to be flat absent that sort of $200 million to $250 million headwind on synergies year-over-year? And then Stewart just thinking about cash taxes what's your current thought process on when that starts to kick in? And also maybe wrap in the discussion about the potential pension funding.
Mike regarding the EBITDA if we'd had the same level of incremental synergy we would've been close to flat right around even there breakeven on the EBITDA.
That's correct.
We just saw it based a lot of those initial start-up cost expenses investments and the new initiatives especially.
And Mike with respect to cash taxes in '13 probably around $100 million or so.
We'll still be using the Qwest NOLs.
We'll continue to use the NOLs in 2014 and probably complete the utilization of all the NOLs.
We don't have a cash tax number to talk about yet for '14.
Pension funding required contributions for next year 2013's a little over $100 million.
We may possibly look at doing that towards the end of this year as we did last year for the 2012 contribution that we made.
Our next question comes from Scott Goldman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess when I look at the EBITDA for this quarter and you guys exceeded the top end of your guidance by a pretty healthy mark which I think is the second time you've done that this year.
And I guess what I'm trying to figure out as I've gone through the different quarters this year is what's changed as you go through and you issue your guidance and then you come out with a higher number on the quarters? Are these costs that are merely being pushed out perhaps on the Prism IP TV into the next year? Are these the more seasonal maintenance costs and the lower property taxes that you highlighted on the EPS slide that really drove that? And of those costs sort of which ones are onetime in nature versus sustainable cost improvements? So Scott I think what's happened is we've exceeded the top end of the guidance because we've been able to get some of the Qwest synergies quicker than we had otherwise expected in the guidance that we gave and it's really in the strategic sourcing area network integration area and some headcount as well.
In terms of onetime items that we had in the third quarter probably the larger onetime item that we had that's reflected is the we had about a $20 million reduction in property taxes below what we expected for the third quarter.
$12 million of that was related to a true-up or finalization really of a prior year property tax issue in the state of Florida that came with us -- to us from Embarq.
And then basically the remainder of it was really related to a state where we were able to successfully reduce an assessment that they had previously provided to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess just listening to AT&amp;T at the Analyst Day today they laid out a path for investment in broadband whereby they plan to bring speeds up to 100 megabits per second on the U-verse platform probably 75 megabits or even higher on using IPDSLAM technology.
Glen you laid out sort of the coverage where your speeds are up to say 20 megabits per second for 1/4 or more of your territory.
Just wondering longer term how comfortable you are with the speeds you're driving towards now? Do you feel the need to maybe have to drive to the 50 megabit or 100 megabit by either driving fiber out deeper or utilizing pair bonding or some of the other technologies that may be out there? Yes Scott we do think we'll need to continue to drive additional speeds.
We think -- we're shooting for the 20 megabit 25 megabits for a very large percentage of our areas.
But with bonding we can virtually double the capacity that -- the broadband capacity and speeds in our markets.
We're already doing bonding in a number of markets today.
So where ever we have 20 megabits basically we could have 40.
Where you have 10 you could have 20.
So that is a major area we're looking at.
We look at the -- with our fiber-to-the-node work where we're hitting 25 to 40 megabits and depending on the distance to our customer's prim [ph] and then we can double that to 80 megabits.
And the fiber-to-the-node work there it's a large percentage of those customers.
We are doing the same thing -- looking at ways to economically reach that customer base with higher speeds.
And it's important us.
That's why our broadband investment is one of our key initiatives.
We're expanding our broadband capabilities.
That's a key investment for us and helps drive our penetration levels as well with our broadband products.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question is if you could just size the revenue that you get the access revenue you get from towers from the combination of copper and fiber? And then secondly I was wondering if you could just going back to the cloud and managed services business that you have what are you seeing in terms of the learnings the ability to cross-sell telecom services to your cloud customers and vice versa? And are there other areas that you need to develop to further create this cross-selling opportunity rather sales force-wise customer service any other kind of infrastructure that you need? It'd be great to see -- to get your perspective there.
Mike we haven't given and I actually don't have right now the access revenue that we get from towers whether they be fiber or copper.
But we obviously serve a very high percentage of the towers in our legacy local exchange areas either with copper or fiber.
And we'll have -- by the end of the quarter we had about 13 500 towers that we had built fiber to.
So it's a good -- and they're all under long-term contracts.
So it's a good growing revenue stream for us as bandwidth demands increase.
This is Jim Ousley.
On the second part on the cloud and managed services crossover we clearly see the opportunity there.
And in fact we have put a major organization in place of roughly 10% to 15% of the Savvis sales and marketing group are now dedicated to enabling the CenturyLink sales organization to start selling hosting and cloud services.
So we see a lot of pull-through there.
I would say it's not a surprise to us I would say that it's not an overnight process.
It's going to take a couple of quarters of training programs certification programs et cetera to get the organization up to speed to take on that challenge.
But the pull-through going both ways major network customers that need hosting and major hosting customers that need network we see significant opportunity.
And we will start realizing that based on the training programs in the first quarter of 2013.
Our next question comes from Kevin Smithen from Macquarie.
I wondered if you could talk about the enterprise business.
We've seen a series of weak results across the board from your competitors so far in enterprise and SME and I wanted to know if you could talk about -- they cited specifically weakness in Europe.
What are you not seeing that others have seen so far this quarter? Well Kevin we're seeing long delayed -- longer decision cycle times.
We had benefited from some pretty large customer deals we've had coming in over the last few months the last few quarters that really came to fruition over the last few months.
So we've been fortunate we've had a lot of demand in our areas.
I don't know that we're seeing anything different.
We're not seeing a lot of improvement in the economy.
We are seeing businesses be willing to spend more.
But in recent months we're seeing that delay come -- just like the other carriers have said we're seeing the same thing.
It's just that our revenue has not been impacted like those because some deals we had going that are really -- been good.
Our salespeople our management folks in enterprise group have done a great job of penetrating that market and continuing to grow our revenues in that sector.
So it's certainly a challenge but our folks have done a good job.
The issue we see is lack of job growth and what's that going to do longer term to this demand and decision cycle for these businesses.
Jim you want to add anything to that? Can you also give us a little granularity as to your exposure to Europe as a percentage of revenue now? Others have clearly cited Europe and multinationals exposure to Europe as a big area of weakness.
Yes I'll try and address both of your questions.
One CenturyLink in total has very little exposure to Europe.
Savvis has some exposure to Europe but it's fairly minimal and most of our business is in U.K.
so we're not affected by the Southern Europe issues that are going on.
So minimal impact in Europe to speak of.
On the enterprise piece I would say 2 things are going on.
One we're smaller than our major our other 2 major competitors.
So we have the ability to go after segments that they aren't really paying attention to.
And so we put some very focused programs in place that we're seeing very positive results from on a quarter-to-quarter basis on winning business away from those competitors.
To be honest they just aren't paying attention to.
So those -- I would say it's in execution that organization enterprise network group has executed some focused programs quite effectively.
Our next question comes from Timothy Horan from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 broad questions.
One for Jim with Savvis how important is it for you have the bandwidth and fiber connectivity? I guess how much benefit has Qwest long distance network and fiber connections brought you? And then second for Glen some of the carriers are talking about using wireless to be able to shutdown copper and replace the copper to save expenses I know both in the U.S.
and globally.
Do you think that sounds feasible from a regulatory perspective and an economic and quality perspective? On your first question the fiber connectivity the whole cloud agenda if you will is network-based.
And for enterprise which Savvis is focused on it's high-speed connectivity.
So Savvis used to buy those services from third parties and wasn't very good at providing them.
So we had to subcontract those et cetera.
Now as part of CenturyLink one we have a cost advantage compared to what we had before and we have a parent that is in the business.
And so it should be extremely important to us and we believe it will be and as far as the rationale on the acquisition.
Tim regarding using wireless to displace copper.
From a regulatory standpoint that could be a tough go.
There may be some areas that will have better service with wireless in some ways.
As far as a competitive threat we don't see that being a real issue for us because just the bandwidth requirements and the limited wireless access or capability in a lot of areas.
Obviously in the most rural areas it could be an issue but we're not seeing -- we don't see that as being a major issue right now for CenturyLink.
We are looking at the opportunity to use broadband data in some different ways to serve these customers.
But right now we don't see that as a major investment for us or a major risk at this point.
And our final question for tonight will be from Brian Turner from JPMorgan.
Just in the context of the initial '13 guidance the continued improvement towards top line stability.
Any sense as to whether that provides incremental flexibility around the balance sheet and M&amp;A with respect to the rating agencies? And I guess along those lines can you help us think about how you'd manage potential opportunities for growth inorganic opportunities for growth within the context of maintaining IG ratings at both Moody's and Fitch? Brian I don't think given where Moody's is and we'll go and talk with them probably actually after the year ends so that we can talk fully about 2012 and 2013 as well.
But I'm not sure that really offers too much flexibility if you understand where Moody's is with respect to the requirement to get down to their 3x debt to EBITDA using their formula.
Okay.
I mean I think that they've certainly given a few different parameters and one of them I know was stabilization of the top line but certainly the balance sheet remains the focus.
So I just didn't know if that would give you guys any sense of incremental flexibility to do something but it sounds like...
I don't think it's give us significant incremental flexibility.
And then I guess the second part on how you'd think about inorganic opportunities in M&amp;A within that context and how you think about maintaining investment grade versus opportunities out there that may pressure that? We've always valued the investment-grade rating and we still value it.
It really depends on the opportunity what it could do.
Future acquisitions should be more -- if we were to make another acquisition in the future it'd be more focused on an area that could drive growth for us.
So we'd have to weigh that opportunity with the issues around credit ratings.
We hope we'd find ways to maintain our investment grade credit rating which we initially do every time we do a transaction now.
It's a factor that we consider.
So every deal is different.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Just one comment to -- someone asked what our required contribution was for pensions for 2013 and I said a little over $100 million about $100 million.
It's actually about $35 million the required contribution for 2013.
Thank you Stewart.
And thank you Saeed.
We are pleased with the continued progress we made during the third quarter towards stabilizing the top line revenues and believe our continued investment in key strategic opportunities will help us continues to drive growth both near term and long term.
Our strategic revenues continue to grow and our guidance reflects our expectation that our revenues from strategic services will continue to grow in the months ahead.
We also remain focused on ensuring operating costs align with our revenue mix and on achieving our operating expense synergy targets through the successful completion of the Qwest and Savvis integrations.
Additionally the expansion of our Prism TV service later this year and the recent launch of managed hosting and cloud services for small and mid-sized business customers will further strengthen our product portfolio and provide us additional revenue growth opportunity as we look into 2013.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results and our capital allocation changes released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
As you move to slide two you will find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for first quarter and full year 2013 the integration of Qwest and Savvis our capital allocation changes and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press releases and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us and our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Now turning to slide three your host on today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer; and also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of Wholesale Operations and Jim Ousley Chief Executive Officer of Savvis.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through February 20 2013 and accessible by webcast through March 6 2013.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of February 13 2013 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to slide four I will now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss CenturyLink's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
We will also provide guidance for the first quarter and full year 2013 as well as other important updates about our business.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter and full-year results and we continue to make good progress on a number of fronts.
Starting on slide five I would like to highlight the progress CenturyLink made in 2012 towards achieving the goals we set a year ago.
Our top line pro forma revenue trend continued to improve in 2012 with an annual revenue decline of 1.7% compared to 3.8% decline in pro forma 2011 and an estimated 5.6% decline in pro forma 2010.
This continued improvement is driven by strength in our strategic products including high-speed internet Prism TV high-bandwidth our data services to enterprise customers and wholesale customers and our hosting services.
For full year 2013 we believe we will reduce our annual revenue rate of decline to the 0.5% to 1.5% range and we expect to reach revenues stability in 2014.
While we continue to face declines in legacy services we believe we have the right asset mix in place to stabilize our top line and grow revenues over time.
Continuing onto slide six.
During the year we achieved strong improvement in access line loss and continued the subscriber growth in broadband and Prism TV services.
We added over 196 000 broadband subscribers and nearly 45 000 Prism TV subscribers during the year.
In Enterprise Markets network segment during 2012 we grew recurring revenue for four consecutive quarter driven by strength in high-bandwidth data services revenue.
In addition we made continued progress on the Fiber-to-the-tower initiative completing over 4 500 fiber builds during 2012 ending the year with approximately 14 700 within our territory.
During 2012 we continued to expand the global reach of our colocation and managed services adding three new data centers expanding available space in four existing data centers.
Also in December we launched savvisdirect our simplified approach to cloud computing for both small and large businesses.
During 2012 we increased our operating expense synergy target related to Qwest acquisition from $575 million to $650 million and we are pleased with our synergy achievement throughout last year as we ended 2012 with an annual synergy run rate of $480 million.
Moving now to slide seven.
I will provide a few highlights from the fourth quarter of 2012 regarding our key strategic initiatives.
As we have outlined over the past several quarters we are focused on continued strategic investment in broadband services expansion and enhancement of Prism TV Fiber-to-the-tower and our hosting and cloud computing services.
Our fourth quarter results reflect the continued progress we are making in these key initiatives.
Starting with broadband expansion enhancement we continued to make significant investments in this area and during the fourth quarter we added over 41 000 high-speed internet subscribers.
With these new subscribers we now have more than 5.85 million broadband customers.
Our customer retention efforts and the growth benefits of bundling broadband with other products and services contributed to the improvement in the decline of the rate of access line loss which improved from 6.6% in the fourth quarter 2011 to 5.7% in fourth quarter 2012.
We also expanded our Fiber-to-the-node infrastructure to more than 274 000 new living units during the quarter adding nearly one million living units in 2012.
We now passed over 7.1 million living units with Fiber-to-the-node technology As a result of our network investment enhancements broadband speed availability has continued to improve.
Over 70% of our enabled access lines receive 6 megabits or higher.
Nearly 60% of enabled lines receive 10 megabits or higher and 31% have speeds of 20 megabits or higher.
We have been very focused on expanding our Ethernet and MPLS services for our business customers.
During the quarter we continued to expand our Ethernet over Copper footprint which has increased over 80% in 2012 to over 700 Ethernet enabled central offices.
We expect to continue making investments in our network enhance speed capabilities in order to continue delivering competitive broadband products and services across our markets.
Turning to slide eight.
Our Prism TV service continues to perform well and represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to cable TV service in the markets where it is currently available.
We added over 10 000 Prism TV subscribers during the fourth quarter ending the year with 115 000 subscribers.
Of the 45 000 new subscribers we have added over the past 12 months over 50% were new subscribers or new customers to CenturyLink.
We now have a penetration rate of nearly 11% across eight markets in which the service is available during 2012.
In addition we continued to enhance our IPTV features by introducing new functionality and applications including expansion of our TV Everywhere capabilities our video-on-demand library and successful trial of wireless set-top boxes.
Prism TV continues to have a positive impact on churn and line loss trends.
We experienced greater than 90% broadband pull through rate with our Prism TV sales to new customers.
We continued to expand our Prism TV enabled footprint and expect to have additional subscriber growth in the months ahead.
As announced last quarter Phoenix will be the first legacy Qwest market to receive Prism TV service.
The soft launch occurred in late December and the early results and impressions are favorable.
We are optimistic about success in this market.
The Phoenix market will be commercially launched in the first half of 2013 and we also expect to enter a second legacy Qwest market in mid-2013.
Continuing on to slide nine.
A third key strategic initiative for us is investing in fiber builds to as many towers in our service area as is economically feasible.
During the fourth quarter we completed approximately 1 175 Fiber-to-the-tower builds for a total of over 4 500 during 2012.
Current we have over 14 700 fiber builds completed across our footprint and we anticipate completing an additional 4 000 to 5 000 builds in 2013.
This initiative supports anticipated long-term growth in data transport much of which is driven by wireless data traffic.
It also expands our addressable customer footprint by enabling fiber access points to other strategic locations where it's viable along these routes.
We believe our Fiber-to-the-tower program have solidified our wholesale access revenue for the long term and assist in the stabilization of our revenue trends.
As we have discussed with you before we are experiencing some revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers transition from copper based DS1 facilities to Fiber-based Ethernet services.
However we do anticipate that wireless bandwidth growth will result in expansion of Ethernet consumption reversing the current revenue compression by early 2014.
On average bandwidth capacity of initial fiber-based connections is increasing.
Moving onto slide 10.
We continue to invest in managed hosting and cloud services to increase datacenter capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
We are seeing benefits from our investments in this area and realize the highest quarterly bookings in four years in the fourth quarter rebounded from the third quarter.
We continued to expand our facilities and opened a data center Frankfurt Germany in the fourth quarter.
With this facility we ended the quarter with 54 data centers in North America Europe and Asia with total sellable floor space of about 1.4 million square feet as we continue to expand the global reach of our Managed Hosting Services.
We anticipate increasing hosting and cloud revenue expansion opportunities in 2013 as we further train and enable our sales channels for business and wholesale customers.
In October we announced the beta launch of savvisdirect our simplified approach to cloud computing with small and large businesses the commercial launch occurred launch in December and early indications are promising.
And finally on October 15<sup>th</sup> we closed acquisition of certain assets of Ciber's global IT outsourcing business.
In addition these outfit assets will complement savvis' existing ITO assets by expanding our capabilities for application management services and helpdesk support.
Now turning to slide 11 I want to address our announcement today regarding changes to our capital allocation strategy.
We have decided to repurchase up to an aggregate $2 billion of our outstanding common stock for the next two-year period ending February 13 2015 and we've decided to reduce our quarterly dividend to $0.54 a share from $0.725 per share.
Just little history here is backdrop.
As we were finalizing our budget for 2013 and working with the rating agencies it became apparent that in order to maintain investment grade ratings we need to reduce investment.
We need to reduce investments in the business and our growth that is investments and really on our growth initiatives and/or we need to reduce dividend significantly and use 100% of free cash flow to repay debt.
Again if we want to maintain our investment grade rating we decided that it is in the long-term best interest for the company and our investors to significantly reduce the dividend and use the proceed to payback debt to maintain investment grade rating.
We believe it is important to continue to invest capital in our growth initiatives that will help bring us to revenue and EBITDA growth and returning cash to shareholders as well.
Also we determined if we were willing to accept the loss of investment grade rating we could return more cash to shareholder during 2013 2014 and we were even with reducing the current dividend and while in implementing our share our repurchase program.
We decided to take advantage of the opportunity to get more cash to shareholders now and adjust the dividend to a level that will be closer to the payout ratio that we have historically maintained actually we've utilized all our NOLs.
So we expect to be a full cash taxpayer in 2015.
And as with this plan we will be able to continue to investment in our business and our growth initiatives at a strong level.
We've worked to make our decisions based on our ability to drive long-term shareholder value and we believe these decisions these changes will do just that.
On the slide 12 in summary before handling the call to Stewart let me say I am pleased with our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
We continue to improve our top line revenue trend and reach the target level of rate declines we set early last year.
We reduced our access line losses by 9% compared to fourth quarter 2011 and we achieved good high speed internet subscriber growth as well as a solid increase in the number of Prism TV customers.
Also the focused investments we made in our key strategic initiatives have positively contributed to strategic revenue growth and continue to improve our top line our revenue trend.
We believe the soft launch of Prism TV into the Phoenix market in the December and the subsequent commercial launch in the first half of this year will position us well to grow video subscribers during 2013 and beyond.
We are also optimistic about leveraging the acquisition of Savvis to generate organic growth our new savvisdirect product offers the opportunity to gain market share in the fast-growing cloud space across our entire range of customers.
Finally we believe the capital allocation initiatives announced today will further our strategy investing key drivers to stabilize and grow top line revenues.
In addition to the share repurchase program our very competitive cash dividend we will be able to significantly increase the total cash returned to shareholders in the next two years.
With that I will turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Stewart? Thank you Glen.
I will spend the next few minutes for reviewing the financial highlights from the fourth quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the first quarter and full year 2013 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Turning to slide 14 I will be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
With that let's turn to our results for the fourth quarter.
As you can see we generated solid operating revenues and cash flows.
Operating revenues were $4.58 billion on a consolidated basis which was in line with our guidance for the quarter and represent a 1.5% decline from fourth quarter 2011 operating revenues.
This also represents a solid improvement from the 3.2% annual decline in the year ago.
Strategic revenue in the quarter increased to 46% of total revenue from 44% in the fourth quarter year ago due to growth in strategic products such as high-speed internet high-bandwidth data services Prism TV and Managed Hosting Services adjusted diluted earnings per share for fourth quarter was $0.67 meeting our guidance.
As we've discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments.
Total cash operating expenses decreased from fourth quarter 2011 to fourth quarter 2012.
This decline was primarily the result of lower personnel related costs being partially offset by higher data hosting and network costs.
We generated solid operating cash flow of approximately $1.91 billion for the fourth quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 41.7%.
Additionally we generated $610 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Turning to slide 15; year-over-year revenue declined 1.5% from fourth quarter 2011.
The decline was primarily a result of the growth in strategic revenue and other revenues being offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
Strategic revenue growth was driven by strength in high-speed internet high bandwidth data services and hosting services.
Now turning to slide 16; I will discuss each of our operating segments beginning with our regional markets segment.
Regional markets generated $2.45 billion of operating revenues which represents a decrease of 3.9% over fourth quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew to $914 million in the quarter up 3.6% over a year ago.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined $120 million or 7.6% from fourth quarter 2011 due primarily to a continuing decline in access line and long distance revenues partially mitigated by implementation of the ARC in July of 2012.
The expenses declined $20 million or 1.9% compared to the previous year driven mainly by lower employee related and data integration expenses which were partially offset by higher Prism TV cost.
Moving to Slide 17 our Wholesale Markets segment generated $908 million in operating revenues a decline of 5.5% from fourth quarter 2011.
Strategic revenues for Wholesale Markets were $572 million up slightly from fourth quarter 2011 primarily driven by growth of Ethernet services offset by rate compression in special access services as customers transitioned from copper based to Ethernet based services.
Wholesale Markets legacy revenues declined by 14% to $335 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long-distance minutes of use and the implementation of the CAF Order write step down.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $271 million 13% below the same period from the prior year driven by lower access and other cost.
Moving to slide 18 Enterprise Markets - Network segment generated $671 million in operating revenues during the quarter which represented an increase of 5.7% from fourth quarter 2011.
This marked the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential growth in recurring revenues for the Network Services segment.
Fourth quarter strategic revenues for Enterprise Markets – Network increased by $25 million or 8% to $346 million from fourth quarter 2011 driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as; MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
Excluding private line services strategic revenue was up nearly 13% from a year ago.
Legacy revenues were basically flat from a year ago period while data integration revenues increased $12 million or 12% due to higher equipment sales and professional services revenues from government and enterprise customers.
Our total segment expenses were flat year-over-year.
Now turning to slide 19 our Enterprise Markets data hosting segment which is primarily legacy Ciber's operations this segment generated $292 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 13% from fourth quarter 2011 revenues of $259 million.
This growth came primarily from year-over-year increases of 9.6% in colocation revenues 21% in managed hosting and cloud services revenues and a 3.6% increase in network services revenues.
Fourth quarter 2012 EMG data hosting revenues include approximately $13 million of revenue contribution from the Ciber IT outsourcing assets acquired in October 2012.
Excluding this revenue managed hosting revenue grew about 8% year-over-year.
Soft bookings in the third quarter 2012 and higher than normal churn primarily due to customer bankruptcy events pressured fourth quarter 2012 data hosting revenue.
Enterprise markets data hosting operating expenses were $235 million in the fourth quarter compared to $202 million in fourth quarter year ago.
This increase of 16% is driven by added operations and sales and marketing headcount to support revenue growth including headcount to the savvisdirect and enabling sales channels along with expenses related to the acquisition of Ciber ITO assets not present in the prior period.
In early January we announced an organizational realignment combining our network services business sales and operations teams into one organization which is led by our Chief Operating Officer Karen Puckett.
Slide 20 highlights the revised reporting structure.
The reorganization combines business sales and operations functions that previously resided in the enterprise markets network services and regional markets organizations.
We believe this change allows us to better serve our business customers by streamlining our end-to-end service delivery and support and sales of network services to our enterprise customers by creating one cohesive organization.
Beginning with results for first quarter 2013 the company will report the following four segments consumer business wholesale and data hosting services.
While the consumer and business segments will be different from today's reporting structure wholesale and data hosting segment will remain unchanged from what was have previously known as wholesale markets and enterprise markets data hosting.
To assist the investment community in understanding the underlying trends in each segment we expect to provide historical pro forma segment financial statements when we report first quarter 2013 earnings.
On slide 21 we provide our first quarter and full year 2013 guidance.
We expect first quarter 2013 operating revenues and operating cash flow to increase compared to fourth quarter 2012 primarily due to the decline in legacy and data integration revenues.
Similar to last year we also anticipate a decline in depreciation and amortization expense in the first quarter of 2013 driven primarily by the impact of our annual review and updated depreciation and amortization writes.
This anticipated lower level of depreciation and amortization expense approximately $100 million below the level in the fourth quarter 2012 is expected to more than offset the decline in operating cash flow and result in an increase in adjusted diluted EPS in the first quarter of 2013 compared to fourth quarter of 2012.
For first quarter of 2013 CenturyLink projects total operating revenues of $4.46 billion to $4.51 billion and operating cash flow between $1.83 billion and $1.88 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.67 to $0.72 per share.
For the full year 2013 CenturyLink expects total operating revenues of $18.1 billion to $18.3 billion reflecting a year-over-year revenue decline of 0.5% to 1.5%.
Operating cash flow is expected to be between $7.3 billion and $7.5 billion and adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be $2.50 to $2.70.
Capital expenditures are expected to range from $2.8 billion to $3 billion driven by spending in our key growth areas data hosting will spend $325 million to $375 million HSI expansion and HSI capacity will spend between $350 million and $375 million and our Fiber-to-the-tower will continue to spend about $250 million to $300 million in this area our Prism TV with the launch of the Phoenix and one other market we expect to spend $100 million to $150 million and maintenance CapEx is expected to remain around the 20% to 25% of total capital expenditures level.
We anticipate free cash flow for full year 2013 between $3 billion and $3.2 billion.
CenturyLink anticipates full year 2013 operating cash flow and free cash flow to decline from full year 2012 primarily driven by the impact of the decline in legacy revenue along with a lower level of incremental synergies in 2013 compared to the level of incremental synergies achieved in 2012.
The company also anticipates a decline in depreciation and amortization expense for full year 2013 compared to full year 2012.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I will ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Mike McCormack from Nomura.
Stewart can you just sort of dig in for us on the cash cost.
Obviously in '13 you have got some pressure on EBITDA and you mentioned the fat that the Qwest synergies don’t recur.
I suspect that won't happen in 2014 either.
So as we look out at EBITDA trajectory is there anything unusual in '13 from a cash cost perspective or should we just expect an even level of potentially declining EBITDA tracking revenue or are there actual levers to pull on the cash cost side to get margins to at least stabilize? Yes.
So Mike basically the cash expense drivers in '13 over '12 about $165 million or so is associated to lower incremental synergies that we will have in 2013 than we had in 2012.
So lower incremental synergies of about $165 million.
We will still increase the total run rate synergies from the $480 million that we exited 2012 to about $600 million by the time we exit 2013 but just the incremental amount will be less than last year.
So the incremental synergies really to a certain extent masked the revenue mix shift that we had from legacy revenues which are very high margin revenues to the strategic revenues which tend to be lower margin.
Additionally other expense drivers that we have for 2013 are Ciber.
There will be about $45 million of incremental expenses there.
Then in our IPTV there will be some incremental expenses there as well.
Okay so when you think about the buyback it still seems like that a fairly low amount of buyback over a fairly long period of time and stock tomorrow will likely get beaten pretty hard.
Is there any way that you guys could accelerate that? We could depending on what happens to the stock price Mike.
I mean we could be in and potentially buy the shares a little bit sooner or use some financing to purchase the shares a little bit sooner than the 24 month period.
Okay thanks guys.
We do plan to buyback about 8% of our total outstanding though with the $2 billion.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Thanks I just want to reconcile some of the prior comments that you had made.
I think you had mentioned that if you are comfortable with revenue trends improving stabilizing you could even consider maybe a small dividend increase just to keep it consistent.
I guess I just want to get a sense of how you feel about revenue trends going forward? Your 2015 dividend payout guidance of lower than 60% I think implies a pretty significant decline to free cash flow per share from the current levels.
Can you talk about that as well? Yes.
So Batya the decline that you that you can back into basically by looking at the dividend payout ratio or the approximate dividend payout ratio in 2015 is really due to the fact that we in 2014 would utilize all of the federal net operating loss carryforwards that we have and our cash taxes will increase substantially.
But we expect barring any changes in the tax loss to increase substantially in 2015.
So that’s the reason.
That's one of the reasons we decided to go ahead and take advantage of this at this point in time and be proactive and try to address the dividend and again try to return more cash to shareholders over the next two years before becoming a full tax payer to allow us to retire 8% or more of our shares which will reduce the dividend even at the new rate by little over $100 million dollars probably between now and 2015 which again allows us to really be a lot more comfortable with the dividend that we are moving to on a going forward basis.
Excluding that increase in the taxes how do you think about revenue trends from here towards '15 and EBITDA and CapEx if you could talk a little bit about that too? Yes.
So Batya we still expect as Glen indicated revenue to flatten out in 2014 compared with 2013 and we would hopefully be able to grow revenue thereafter at least that's our current thinking.
EBITDA may not stable quite as quickly because we will continue to have some of the revenue mix shift where you continue to lose some of the higher margin revenue that's replaced with lower margin revenue but we would be helpful that we would continue to close the gap in '14 and '15 in terms of flattening out EBITDA and eventually starting to grow EBITDA and all of that is really without any business as usual expense cuts in the event we are able to find ways to cut costs to a certain extent over and above the synergies that we expect to get over the next couple of years.
It would enable us to be able to hopefully get to EBITDA stability a little quicker.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Can you un-mute your phone if you have your phone on mute.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley Thanks a lot.
Can we talk about the capital spending? How should we think about the level for 2013? Is that a run rate level or some of the projects like IPTV and Fiber-to-the-tower peaking this year if you give us a little color there? And on the cost side can you update us on a couple of items the labor negotiations and any contributions to the pension fund? Thanks.
Simon on contributions to the pension fund we made a contribution of about $146 million and $147 million in the early 2013 and that will suffice we believe.
It will certainly cover all the required contributions that we have to make this year.
So I think we've done what we need to do there for this year.
In terms of CapEx levels yes I'll let Stewart do it.
In the $2.9 billion level that reflects all the investments we make in the new initiatives Simon as you pointed out.
Excluding Fiber-to-the-tower about $600 million of that is success based capital.
We have revenues locked in and we really expect that from locked in and we make those investments.
We included Fiber-to-the-tower we have the contract.
We have close to $900 million almost a third of that expand is success based.
So we continue to build out our systems and we have opportunity to grow do hosting or Prism we'll do it on a success basis really.
We expect to continue to drive additional revenues.
If we are successful in these areas if we have more opportunity we'll continue to invest in these areas we're not - we don't have to so we'll see how this goes but right now in 2013 again we really have about a third of our CapEx in success based type CapEx expenditures.
And on the labor deal or negotiations? Yes.
On the labor the current contract expired back in October and we've been working with the union agreed to extend the agreements day-by-day or day-to-day as we continued the negotiations.
I think everybody is negotiating in good faith.
We're making progress but it's been obviously much slower than we had hoped or expected but we all believe we are all making progress.
It is our desire to reach agreement that will help the company better align our cost with a very competitive marketplace while still providing really good competitive wages and benefits for our employees and we think we will get there and we are hopeful that we reach agreement with union in the next several weeks but it's been much slower than we've expected but we believe we are making progress.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Great.
Thank you.
So in going through the process just curious why wouldn't you consider cutting the dividend further or if you're applied standing up to the rating agencies a little bit but why not leave the dividend where it is and just buyback less stock.
What is sort of the thinking there.
And if you're on a path to get to the point where EBITDA is stable why do we have to necessarily consider cutting the dividend or is there or is it just taking that much longer than your original plan when you look back in and acquiring Savvis and Qwest is it just taking longer to get there? I will start and let Stewart follow-up Frank.
First of all we didn't think it was good to reduce the dividend further.
We know that we believe we need to return cash to shareholders.
We believe a 25% cut is something not what we would want to doing in a perfect world but something we think is important to do now.
We do want to maintain the payout ratio.
We've historically been comfortable with and that 60% below or less than 60% ratio.
We felt like if we payback if we continue with the dividend now there is no real benefit in one sense because once there is uncertainty about the 2015 payout ratio then it's really like a one-time dividend or payout sales we don't think is the right thing to do so we decided it was better to buy stock back with those funds plus additional another 50% of our free cash flow or so and take advantage of that accretion.
And with the dividend at a level we are very comfortable with going forward.
What we won't see that we think the concern about the level of dividend we'd be paying.
So this really how we came to our conclusion.
Stewart you want to add anything to that? It's really Frank just thinking through and looking at what the cash taxes would be in 2015 and the impact of that on free cash flow and on the dividend payout ratio and again the opportunity to retire 8% or more of the shares between now and then and really help further.
I mean it's accretive to free cash flow per share and it will reduce the aggregate dividend going forward.
Okay.
Nothing on the operations side that's not trending the way you had been planning all along that makes you more concerned about in 2015 having to face of bigger dividend crisis? No.
That was not part of the decision.
We bake this based on from we believe from the position of strength Frank and look into the future of the company also there is no plans.
We don't have any major acquisitions on the radar had nothing to do with our decision so it was strictly what we think the best for the long-term growth of this company.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
So with the lower payout ratio can you help us think about the opportunity that this creates in terms of spending more CapEx or maybe going more aggressively after growth initiatives like the video business which is going to drive a little more dilution upfront? Phil So if we bought shares back with the free cash flow then basically we will not have the additional capital to invest over and above what we are investing today unless we lever the company up so I mean I guess that's the other thing.
As part of this too we increased the leverage ratio to somewhat less than three times or no more than three times.
But basically we plan on using the free cash flow that's created as a result of the dividend reduction which is about $450 million a year to repurchase shares plus we'll add a use of about $1.1 billion of our free cash flow to repurchase shares as well.
Okay.
And so we should look at CapEx as being essentially flat for the next few years? That's our thinking now.
Pretty flat we could bring it down some cut it off a little bit depending on.
It's really based on the success of these new initiatives I mean what we think we can drive in terms of revenue and margins going forward.
Yes.
Fiber-to-the-tower will start winding down I guess 2014.
Okay.
Can you help us think about your thought process on acquisitions here? I would think that given the hit you stock probably takes tomorrow that a stock-based acquisition might be a little tougher but this buyback pool could leave some room for cash acquisitions instead how are you thinking of that? Right now where we are focused on our key growth initiatives we believe we have a lot of opportunities of organic growth with our broadband expansion and Fiber-to-the-tower work that managed hosting cloud services and our Prism TV services.
So with all those we are very comfortable.
We do not need to make an acquisition in order to grow the company to grow revenues and margins.
That doesn’t mean we won't consider.
We always have but we don’t see a need to go out and acquire.
We will look opportunistically at acquisition as a way to possibly grow the company faster but nothing that we feel we need to go out and have to go out and do it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Thanks guys.
For what it's worth I think it's really ingenious and balance the restructuring here makes a lot of sense.
Can you maybe just elaborate on the acquisitions? Are there any areas of divestitures that might make some sense for you? You haven't done any in a little while.
Maybe any areas of kind of obvious low hanging productivity improvements at this point? Thanks.
No Tim.
There is nothing significant.
At least not that we could talk about right now.
There are some obvious things on divestitures we have looked at before that we could do but nothing that we feel like would really improve our growth rate at this point in time or our margins.
So don't expect any divestitures today.
The low hanging fruit.
I don’t see Stewart you think is? I don't know anything that's out there that would drive productivity in the near term.
The biggest thing I think is improve our growth.
It's just the improvement of the economy.
We are still seeing.
Although we have had good result in our enterprise businesses this past year we are still seeing a long decision making cycle out there.
Although we are encouraged somewhat as far as some of the successes we have had in the recent months we are still concerned about the economy and are concerned that our potential customers have had over the fiscal cliff and the other regulatory issues that are out there the debt saving those kind of things.
If we can get those out of the way we are hopeful we will make through this economy turnaround.
But if that happens and that's the biggest thing we think could drive faster growth for us.
Then lastly on the rating agencies.
Are they focused on debt-to-EBITDA? Or is it interest coverage at this point? Maybe where would they like to see you with debt-the-EBITDA net debt-to-EBITDA ratio? Thanks.
Debt-to-EBITDA.
It is basically varies from agency to agency.
I know Moody's has their release out.
I think Fitch has their release out now.
S&amp;P release is probably out by now as well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Goldman from Goldman Sachs.
Hey thanks guys.
Appreciate you taking the questions.
I guess I will layoff on the buyback and dividend questions and we have hit a lot of that and just ask about the Savvis side of things or the hosting side of things.
I know Stewart you mentioned that Savvis was up or the hosting was up about 8% year-over-year but if I back out the announced contribution from the Ciber ITO it looks as though that segment was pretty flat sequentially.
So I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about what you are seeing inside of the data center stuff at colo managed hosting side of things and what you are seeing from the interest in savvisdirect and what impact that could have in 2013? Yes Scott.
The 8% year-over-year growth was without Ciber.
But if you do you are right.
If you look sequentially from third to fourth quarter basically the revenue was flat.
That's really due to the things that we brought up on the call the bankruptcies that we had during the quarter and that's really about it.
We are hopeful that we had a good quarter in terms of bookings for fourth quarter.
Some of the softness that we saw in fourth quarter rather was related to third quarter bookings which were soft.
So we are hopeful again with the good bookings in fourth quarter it will take a couple of quarters probably to turn that around but we had the best bookings in fourth quarter we had in four years basically.
Jim did you want to comment on that? I would say that the key issues that affect 2013 is we have done a lot of work on integrating and enabling the CenturyLink network channels and so on and we will start to see that have positive revenue impact in the second half of the year.
So you take that and you take the opportunities there with savvisdirect which Glen mentioned we are getting a positive reaction.
There again is a very large customer base that this appeals to in the CenturyLink base that we believe will start to have some very positive impact in the third and fourth quarter and particularly in 2014 and 2015 it can be a very big increment to the overall hosting revenue.
The colo business is stable.
It is kind of a managed business right now and directly related to investment.
So we feel good.
We had a good colo year but it was at a controlled level.
So managed hosting is the key.
It is where the margins are at where the value add is that and that's what we really need to drive on in 2013.
We have plans in place to do that.
Great and if I could just follow-up and I apologize if I missed this earlier but Stewart if you could just talk about how much investments on the CapEx front you are spending on the data center side in '13 and how that compared to '12? I know you are pretty active on data center expansions in '12.
Yes we have got $325 million to $375 million in '13 and that was probably in '12.
Let me grab that right quick.
Yes the total cash CapEx was about $318 million in '11.
Great.
Thanks guys.
'12.
I am sorry in '12.
Okay understood.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Hey guys thanks for taking the question.
I will go back to the strategy change.
I guess I wanted to give you guys maybe the opportunity.
A lot of the questions have been okay.
So Stewart if nothing has changed in business from a year ago and we are looking at the same free cash flow in 2015 today that we are looking at before but what we have done is we have chosen the strategy now that's both led to debt downgrades and the 15% cut in the stock price but the argument is that we are going to create long-term value but there is nothing on the acquisition table there is nothing on the CapEx investment front that's going to be do anything different than what's been happening.
So what is the full argument now for CenturyLink now that you have done what you have done? How is CenturyLink better for the stockholders now? So David I think the first is that basically we were going to get downgraded anyway.
Based on the 2013 budgets and plan short of cutting operating expenses or investment in areas that we think long-term will help us get to revenue and EBITDA stability.
If we hadn't cut those we couldn't have kept the investment grade rating.
The other way to keep the investment grade rating would have been to cut the dividend and use that to pay debt back.
So I mean we were going to get downgraded anyway.
It would have been worse I think for us to cut the dividend and basically use that to pay debt back at this point.
So looking at that I guess as we have focused on 2013 we really started focusing on '15 and working through and trying to look at what taxes cash taxes would potentially go to in '15 and that's when we realized as part of that that basically the dividend payout ratio was going to increase significantly in '15 if we didn't do something.
I guess we could have waited a year and a half or two years and see how that worked out but we decided it's better to be proactive and really try to buy stock back in the interim and keep investing in the business.
Nothing has changed in the business really.
Just keep investing in the business to stabilize and grow revenue and EBITDA.
We felt like we were better off going ahead reducing the dividend now buying shares back which reduces the shares outstanding by the time we get to 2015 which helps us really again stabilize and be confident that we can continue with the dividend that we have moved to which is more in line with our historical payout ratio in the last two to three years in '15 than we would have been had we not done this at this point.
I will just add Dave that first of all there is better visibility as Stewart said in 2015.
Secondly more confidence in our growth initiatives.
We have seen those become real.
We are where we made a choice to keep the dividend or increase the dividend and reduce our investment in the business which we don't think is right.
If we had not done this we are looking at 2015 we think we are putting pressure on the stock price as we went into certainly in the '13 and '14 as we came forced to be cash taxpayer.
So you take all into consideration this is the best strategy for our company long-term and for shareholders long-term.
That's our view of it.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Nicole Black from Wells Fargo.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess as a fixed income analyst what I want to ask about is could you take a minute to discuss your future debt issuance plans now that we are firmly in in high yield status are you going to continue to use the Qwest Corp entities to refinance Qwest Corp paper or will all future bonds come out of the CenturyLink parent box? Yes.
So Nicole Qwest Corp and Embarq will remain investment grade at Fitch basically that's in their release.
Moody's basically indicated in their release that although they just put everything on review for downgrade that it was likely that Qwest Corp and Embarq would retain their investment grade rating so we really believe we will retain the investment grade ratings at Embarq and Qwest Corp.
We carry about $7.5 million of debt of the $20.5 million that we have outstanding is carried at Qwest Corp so we will continue to use the Qwest Corp entity to refinance borrowings that come due at Qwest Corp.
Everything else our current plans are to as they were in the past really to refinance everything else that comes due you up at the parent company and of course that will be non-investment grade BB+ at Fitch Moody's will come out with their rating but they indicated pretty strongly I think that the family rating would go down only one notch so we will refinance at the parent company.
If you look at our debt maturities over the next three years over '13 '14 and '15 we only have about $725 million of maturities that will need to be refinanced at the parent company level.
The remainder of the maturities that come due are at Qwest Corp so we feel real comfortable with our financing plan going forward our credit facility has paid down close to $300 million now from about $800 million at the end of the year and it's a $2 billion facility.
We don't plan on drawing it down to more than $1 billion so that we keep at least $1 billion capacity on that facility just so that we will always have plenty of liquidity so those are really our plans going forward.
Okay so if Embarq has a chance of keeping its status would you revive that as a potential issuing entity down the road? Nicole we haven't really talked about that and we will need to think through that to see if that's a possibility.
I mean it would mean it would have to be another reporting entity and we will just have to see if it's worth the effort of doing that.
We have about $3 billion of debt today a little less than $3 billion of debt today at the Embarq level.
The first major maturity that comes up at Embarq is in 2016 a little over $1 billion so we have some time to decide if we want to refinance at Embarq as well.
Okay.
Then last question.
The covenants that are in place on the bank facility side because that's good for another four years the four turns at the parent level and 285 235 tests on Qwest.
Are those going to stay unchanged even with the ratings agency actions? Yes.
Those stay unchanged even with the rating agency actions.
We do have couple of covenants on QCII that bring back but they are not material at all and really don't impact us.
Okay.
Well it has been delightful covering you guys as long as I've been able to so good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Donna Jaegers from D.A.
Davidson.
Hi I got a question for Karen Puckett since she is in the background there.
I was just curious given that Enterprise as such is your growth area what Century is doing to change or to improve the go-to-market in the out-of-region market for CenturyLink? Donna the team had a great performance in 2012.
We really want to continue to accelerate that.
We have opportunities.
We're very focused not only on the sales front but also on the customer experience because we believe that's a big differentiator for us right now against our competitors so we are going to leverage that and get the tools and the resources so our sellers can be more productive in the upfront so those two bookings are what we plan on doing differently.
And given that Comcast is coming at you guys heard in region offering twice the bandwidth to small business customers.
What's your response there competitively? Comcast is certainly a competitor but I would say relative to the amount of the fiber that we have in end market and the amount of fiber that we have already to buildings we feel like we are set up pretty well.
We are packaging that so we have symmetrical capability into those buildings that very high speed Ethernet connections.
That was our savvisdirect product in terms of computing as such packaging put us in a really strong position against our competitor be it Comcast or any of them.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Tom Seitz from Jefferies.
Yes.
Thanks most of mine have been answered.
I guess maybe could I ask for the little bit more color on how you feel like the savvisdirect product rollout has gone? Can you talk about how you are marketing it now that's it' out of beta? Are you systematically hitting your captive customers base any more white label deals just any color you can provide would be great? I'll start and Jim may want to add to this but up until through this month through January and February we have not done any advertising.
Basically it's all been just on the web and word-of-mouth and put it out on advertising in the internet world.
We've been very pleased so far.
We've also marketed some with our direct sales channels and they have been successful early on with that we are seeing a lot of demand for the product feel really good about it and again with no advertising we will began advertising heavier with direct mail with more or net-type advertising and we expect to accelerate going forward.
We believe it's going to be a very competitive product and again initial reaction has been very positive.
I would just add to cut two other data points.
One we are seeing very positive response on the private label.
The white label product that we are looking at we signed one order and we've got a lot of interest so those could be pretty significant in the future.
The second is around the dedicated hosting environments low-end dedicated hosting environments that we are promoting.
We are seeing very strong information and demand around those.
Those take a little longer to sell because they're basically supporting a dedicated environment but they're bigger ticket items so both of those are a very positive early on indications.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you Saeed.
If you will turn to slide 24 so we conclude today's call.
We are pleased with the continued progress we made during the fourth quarter towards stabilizing our top line revenues and believe our continued investment in key strategic opportunities will help us continue to drive growth both near-time and long-term.
Our strategic revenue growth continues to strengthen CenturyLink's competitive positions and our guidance reflects our expectation that our revenues from these strategic services will continue to grow in the months ahead.
Demand from business customers for best network and hosted IT solutions remained strong.
Also the expansion of our Prism TV service and the recent launch of managed hosting and cloud services for small and mid-sized business customers will further strengthen our product portfolio and provide us additional revenue growth opportunities in 2013.
Throughout 2012 we made good progress on our key strategic initiatives and we believe these growth areas continue to strengthen our competitive position going into 2013.
And lastly we believe the capital allocation changes we announced today will allow us to continue to invest in these strategic initiatives.
They will help stabilize our top line revenue and strengthen our company's position long-term while continuing to return significant cash to shareholders.
Thank you for joining our call today.
We look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to CenturyLink's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's first quarter 2013 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
On slide two you will find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for second quarter and full year 2013 the integration of Qwest and Savvis and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us and our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at <a href="http://www.centurylink.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.centurylink.com</u></a>.
Now turning to slide three your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer; and also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of Wholesale Operations and Jeff Von Deylen President of Savvis.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through May 15 2013 and accessible by webcast through May 29 2013.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of today May 8 2013 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to slide four I’ll now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss CenturyLink’s first quarter 2013 results.
We will also provide guidance for second quarter and update full year 2013 guidance as well as other important updates about our business.
We are pleased with our first quarter results and we continue to make good progress on a number of fronts.
Starting on slides five I’d like to begin with some highlights from the quarter.
We continue to generate solid operating results from subscriber metrics.
Our annual rate of access line loss improved to only 5.7% in the first quarter 2013 from 6.4% a year ago.
Also we achieved better than expected broadband net ads of 66 700 in the quarter.
This is obviously strong performance for the quarter.
However we do expect broadband subscriber growth to be significantly lower in the second quarter due to normal seasonality in our industry.
During the quarter we added 13 400 Prism TV customers ending the period with 120 000 subscribers.
We also believe video is an important product for our residential customers and we continue to rollout the service to new markets.
From a business markets perspective we experienced strong new sales to business customers across the company for network and hosting services in the quarter.
Our business strategic revenue grew over 6% in the first quarter 2013 compared to the same period a year ago and we continue to see high demand for Ethernet and DSL and Wavelength services as they grew over 15% year-over-year.
In early January we announced and implemented an organizational realignment that merge our entire retail consumer and business network services operations in to a single operating group led by our Chief Operating Officer Karen Puckett.
The key objective in this realignment was to ensure that we provided a more consistent go-to-market strategy and an improved end-to-end service deliver experience to business customers both in and out of region.
During the first quarter 2013 cash expenses declined 3% from the same period a year ago driven by lower personnel related costs partially offset by higher colocation managed hosting and network expenses.
Finally I’m pleased with the strong progress we made on the share repurchase program we announced in February.
Through May 2013 we repurchased 19.2 million shares a 3% of our outstanding common stock for a total of $682 million.
We repurchased shares aggressively over past few months and we expect to opportunistically buy stock going forward.
We do expect to complete the $2 billion repurchase by February of 2015.
If you turn to slide 6 I’ll provide an update on our key strategic initiatives starting with broadband expansion enhancement.
We continue to make significant investments in this area with a 67 000 high-speed internet customers added in the first quarter we now serve more than 5.91 million broadband subscribers.
Also as a result of our network investment and enhancement broadband speed availability is continue to improve over 70% of enabled access lines received speeds of 6 megabits of higher over 60% of enabled lines received 10 megabits or higher 30% -- 32% have high -- have speeds of 20 megabits or higher and nearly 15% has speed of 40 megabits or higher.
As part of our broadband initiative we are also focused on expanding our Ethernet and MPLS services for our business customers.
During the quarter we continued to expand our Ethernet over Copper footprint more than 3 300 of our central offices are now capable of providing Ethernet in our network.
We expect to continue making investments in our network to enhance speed capabilities require to deliver competitive broadband products and services across our markets.
We recently announced the launch of 1 gigabit service pilot in Omaha which will reach approximately 48 000 addressable homes and project is completed in the fourth quarter of this year.
We will carefully evaluate the success of this pilot before determining further deployment this advanced technology.
We will be considering such factors as positive community support competitive compared to the marketplace.
Our return to investment in these areas among other key factors help us make decisions regarding future investments in fiber to the power technology.
Turning to slide seven our Prism TV service continues to perform well and represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to cable TV service and the markets where we offer the service.
We added 13 400 Prism TV subscribers during the first quarter for a total of 120 000 subscribers.
We now have a penetration of nearly 10% across the market where service is available.
Over 50% of the customers added were new customers to CenturyLink.
These customers continue to have a high rate of broadband attachment I believe about 94% attachment rate in the first quarter of the year.
In addition we continue to enhance our IPTV features by introducing new functionality and applications including expansion of our TV Everywhere capabilities our video-on-demand library and our recent successful trial of wireless set-top boxes.
We expect to continue to expand our Prism TV footprint as well as drive additional subscriber growth.
As announced last quarter Phoenix was the first legacy Qwest market to receive Prism TV service.
Everybody sales there are favorable.
In the first quarter we also soft launched the service in Colorado Springs and while we previously indicated we expect to launch Phoenix plus one additional market this year we now also expect soft launch Prism TV service in Omaha during the second quarter with our fiber to the prim technology offering there.
Continuing on to slide eight there are two strategic initiatives investing fiber builds of new towers in our service areas is economically feasible.
During the first quarter we completed approximately 800 fiber to the tower builds for a total of over 15 500 across our footprint.
We currently expect to complete a total of 4000 to 5000 builds by end of 2013.
We believe our fiber-to-the-tower program have solidified our wholesale access revenue for the long term and assist in the stabilization of our revenue trends.
As we have discussed with you before we are experiencing some revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers transition from copper based DS1 facilities to Fiber-based Ethernet services.
However we anticipate that wireless bandwidth growth will result in expansion of Ethernet consumption reversing the current revenue compression by early 2014.
On average bandwidth capacity of initial fiber-based connections is increasing which mitigate some of the transition revenue compression we had expected.
Now moving to slide 9 in managed hosting and cloud services we saw some weakness in first quarter data hosting revenue growth due to soft third quarter 2012 new sales also due to foreign exchange currency impacts as well as the impact of declining computing storage costs.
However we continue to believe we are well-positioned to capitalize on long term secular growth opportunities in this space.
We have developed and are expanding our strong product offering for businesses of all sizes.
We continue to build upon solid momentum in the fourth quarter 2012 as new sales were also strong again this quarter.
Cross-sell opportunities for hosting product across the company continue to be strong.
The sales of hosting services to business network customers steadily are growing.
With our savvisdirect we’ve updated our bundled solutions to introduce cloud product to additional business customers throughout all of our sales channels.
We also continue to invest to increase data center capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
In the first quarter we expanded capacity in three data centers adding approximately 15 000 square feet of saleable floor space.
For full year 2013 we expect to add to a total of nearly 90 000 saleable square feet.
In April Savvis is recognized as a leader in Gartner's Magic Quadrant for managed hosting North America and we believe another confirmation of CenturyLink’s leadership position in managed hosting.
Now to slide 10 before handing the call over to Stewart let me say I am pleased with our first quarter results.
We continue to improve our top line revenue trend and we continue to believe we will improve the year over year revenue trends for full year 2013 and reached revenue stability in 2014.
We achieved strong high-speed internet and Prism TV subscriber growth.
And the focused investments we have made in our key strategic initiatives have positively contributed to strategic revenue growth and continue to improve our topline revenue trend.
We believe the soft launch of Prism TV into additional markets in the first half of 2013 and planned subsequent commercial launches later this year will position us well to grow video subscribers during 2013 and beyond.
Also with the realignment of our reporting structure we continue to improve our go-to-market approach and end-to-end service delivery model for business customers.
And with the launch of savvisdirect in late 2012 our managed hosting and cloud services portfolio is now positioned to address the data hosting needs of customers of all size.
Additionally our increased focus on accountability across the organization to sell data hosting solutions is leading to improve our cross-sell opportunity.
With that I will turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Stewart? Thank you Glen.
I will spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the first quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the second quarter and full year 2013 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Turning to slide 12 I will be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
With that let’s move to our first quarter results.
As you can see we generated solid operating revenues and cash flows.
Operating revenues were $4.51 billion on a consolidated basis at the top of our guidance for the quarter.
It represents a 2.1% decline from first quarter 2012 operating revenues.
Strategic revenue in the quarter increased to 47% of total revenue from 45% in the first quarter a year ago due to growth in strategic products such as high-speed internet high-bandwidth data services Prism TV and Managed Hosting Services.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.76 exceeding the top end of our guidance by $0.04 which was primarily as a result of our first quarter operating expenses being lower than we had anticipated.
As we’ve discussed on prior earnings call adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Total cash operating expenses decreased from first quarter 2012 to first quarter 2013.
This decline was primarily the result of lower personnel related costs which were partially offset by higher data hosting and network costs.
We generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.93 billion for the first quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 42.8%.
Additionally we generated $1 billion of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash taxes paid interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong free cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Now turning to slide 13 our year-over-year revenue declined 2.1% from first quarter of 2012.
This rate of decline represents a 60-basis point improvement over the 2.7% rate of decline in first quarter of 2012.
Operating revenues compared to pro forma revenues for first quarter of 2011.
The decline in first quarter 2013 operating revenues compared to first quarter 2012 was primarily a result of growth in strategic revenues that was more than offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use and the impact of a lower universal service revenue contribution factor that has passed through revenue recorded in our other revenue line item.
The growth in our strategic revenues was primarily driven by strength in high-speed internet high-bandwidth business data services and data hosting services.
Slide 14 highlights the revised reporting structure.
In early January we announced an organizational realignment combining our business sales and operations functions that previously resided in enterprise markets network services and regional markets organization into one organization which is led by our Chief Operating Officer Karen Puckett.
We believe this change positions us to better serve our business customers by streamlining our end-to-end service delivery supporting sales of network services to our enterprise customers by creating one cohesive organization.
So beginning this quarter the first quarter and going forward we are now reporting the following four segments: consumer business wholesale and data hosting services.
Now turning to slide 15 I will discuss each of our operating segments beginning with the consumer segment first.
Consumer generated $1.51 billion in operating revenues which represents a decline of 3.4% over first quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 5.4% year over year to $620 million.
Our legacy services revenues for the segment declined 8.7% for first quarter 2012 due primarily to a continued decline in access line and long distance revenues partially mitigated by implementation of access recovery charge in July of 2012.
Expenses declined $41 million or 7.2% during the first quarter compared to the same period a year ago driven mainly by lower employee related expenses which were partially offset by higher Prism TV costs.
Moving to slide 16 our business segment generated $1.5 billion in operating revenues during the first quarter which were in line with the same year ago period.
First quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased by 6.4% to $615 million from the first quarter 2012 driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
Excluding private line services strategic revenue grew nearly 12% from year ago.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined 4.6% from first quarter 2012 due primarily to continuing decline in access line and long distance revenues partially again mitigated by implementation of the access recovery charge in mid-year 2012.
Total segment expenses declined approximately $30 million or 3% driven by lower employee and bad debt expense partially offset by higher facility costs.
Turning to slide 17 our wholesale segment generated $907 million in operating revenues a decrease of 5.7% from first quarter 2012.
Strategic revenues for wholesale were $573 million down 1.5% from first quarter 2012 as declining low speed transport services revenue offset growth in Ethernet services and data bandwidth capacity expansion by wireless carriers.
Our legacy revenues in this segment declined by 12% to $334 million reflecting the continued decline in access in long distance minutes of use and the implementation of lower access rates on the cap order rate step-up.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $274 million 12% below the same period from the prior year driven by lower personnel related costs lower access expense and some favorable one-time access settlements during the quarter.
Now moving to slide 18 in our data hosting segment which includes all colocation managed hosting cloud services and hosting related network services revenue for customers of all sizes this segment generated $334 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 7.7% from first quarter 2012 revenues of $310 million.
The growth came primarily from year-over-year increases of 4.3% in colocation revenues and 20% increase in managed hosting cloud services revenues.
First quarter 2013 revenues include approximately $15 million of revenue contribution from the Ciber IT outsourcing assets acquired in October 2012.
Excluding this revenue managed hosting revenue grew by approximately 6% year-over-year.
As Glen previously said year-over-year revenue growth based several headwinds this quarter including soft new sales in third quarter 2012 foreign currency exchange impact and price compression driven by declining compute and storage costs.
In total these items lowered first quarter 2013 revenues by approximately $8 million compared to the same period a year ago.
Data hosting operating expenses were $264 million in the first quarter compared to $231 million in the first quarter 2012.
This increase of 14% is driven by added data center expansion operations and sales and marketing headcount to support revenue growth including headcount for savvisdirect and enabling sales channels along with expenses related to the acquisition of the Ciber ITO assets not present in the prior-year period.
Now turning to slide 19 we provide our second quarter and full year 2013 guidance.
For second quarter 2013 we expect operating revenues of $4.49 billion to $4.54 billion and operating cash flow between $1.82 and $1.86 million and adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.63 to $0.68 per share.
Our anticipated sequential decline in second quarter operating cash flow and adjusted diluted EPS compared with first quarter results is primarily due to one higher seasonal expenses that we typical incur in the second quarter each year including annual merit adjustments.
The total of that equates to about $0.04 a share and normal legacy revenue decline partially offset by continued expected growth in strategic revenue which in aggregate is a decline of about $0.015 EPS and cost related to our continued investments in key initiatives and increased marketing and timing of some of our branding expenditures expected to be about $0.03 during the quarter.
For the full year 2013 our operating revenues capital expenditures and free cash flow guidance remains the same as we provided last quarter.
However we have increased our full-year 2013 operating cash flow and adjusted diluted EPS guidance primarily as a result of our strong first quarter results and share repurchases through the end of the quarter.
We now expect operating cash flow to be in the $7.35 billion to $7.55 billion and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.75 per share.
It's also important to note that we’d expect our 2013 operating revenues compared to our 2012 operating revenues to reflect one approximately a $35 million decline in data integration revenues due to anticipated lower cost from premise equipment sales.
And secondly approximately $45 million lower other revenues due primarily to the lower USF contribution factor anticipated this year versus 2012.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I’ll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Hi guys.
Thanks a lot for taking the question.
Nice quarter to start off the year.
A couple of questions if I could first Stewart the buyback was very aggressive.
You’ve got about a third of the $2 billion buyback that you budgeted over the neck over the two years behind you now.
When you say opportunistic should we imagine that what you're really going for is a strict $1 billion of buyback this year a strict $1 billion of buyback next year or if the opportunity presents itself how aggressive would you be prepared to be within the context of the full $2 billion buyback authorization? And then second just on the data center business we've seen some very strong results from a lot of the data center companies out there.
You talked about this quarters softness in terms of sequential growth was really in part a function of softness and billings in the third quarter.
You saw strength in the fourth quarter.
You saw strength this quarter in terms of bookings.
Should we be expecting a nice acceleration starting in 2Q and if so could you kind of size up what kind of growth we should be expecting from that unit? Thanks.
So David I’ll answer the first question.
So we were aggressive and by being opportunistic I mean we will potentially spend more than half of the program in 2013.
It really just depends on the stock price and the opportunity to accumulate more shares at lower prices.
So I think we’re pretty aggressive.
We’re not going to continue in all likelihood at the same pace that we did.
We don’t expect to get -- we still expect to get the program done within the two-year period that we announced.
But we would expect just to probably in the year at a little bit higher than $1 billion.
But again just really dependent upon the opportunity.
I will comment on that to speak to the question it’s like a question a little more detailed.
But we feel that the first quarter hopefully in the low point for our data hosting sales helped along the momentum we believe in our network group for cross-selling opportunities we have a new Savvis Direct product coming out and we pointed out the sales were strong in the fourth and first quarter.
So we feel good about where we are headed here.
We don’t disclose exactly our growth target here but Jeff can address some things we're doing here and we are optimistic about the rest of the year.
Jeff? Again in the third quarter that books for that new sales sold in that quarter was a low point.
I think that the good news is Q4 and Q1 our new sales were on our plan and we are about 30% higher than that Q3 low point.
One of our other big initiatives in 2013 is leveraging the CenturyLink channels got significant sellers 400 about 5000 enterprise customers that we are really -- there is some early good signs a good program got really launched at the end of fourth quarter early first quarter and the results in Q1 were pretty positive we were about 10% up from our Q4 sales.
It gives us confidence in terms of our go forward -- this Q1 number is the low point and we will grow sequentially from there.
I think the one time -- the headwinds we have are currency and then we talked about the technology migration as some of our customers migrate from discrete hosting to more cloud based services.
There is some price erosion pressure.
Our team there is very focused on catering those customers retaining up and we will grow with them.
So that’s the kind of the key points that we are trying to execute on.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Wanted to ask about consumer margin the 65% was the level that we haven’t seen in over two years and despite that you have more IPTV in the business I assume that is slower margin business.
Given the headcount reductions that you announced should we assume that this is a sustainable level going forward or do you anticipate some pressure going forward? No Batya we really just anticipate some pressure going forward in the consumer segments that we’re growing our margins down somewhat closer to really -- in the low 60s probably.
We’re really just in the second quarter starting to roll out the Prism TV and start to incur some expenses there.
We have additional markets as Glen mentioned that we will be rolling out during the year.
So we expect to see increase this quarter with some of the strategic products including Prism which are in the consumer segment.
So we expect to see that margins to come down.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Can you talk a little bit about your business services organization and what sort of benefit that you are seeing from that year to date? Frank Karen good afternoon.
Business services so the realignment has been very helpful in terms of a cohesive go to market and in particular some real efficiencies in the marketing organization in terms of one product roadmap getting the efficiencies out of one platform like (inaudible) making sure that we are leveraging all the capabilities across all the sub-segments within the business in terms of enterprise SMB.
And so that’s been very beneficial.
And then geographically getting aligned so that there is a better coordination and there's never enough feet on the street.
So it’s actually better utilization of the sales organization.
Really encouraged I think the team is really encouraged and we are looking forward to the second quarter.
Okay.
Any margin impact or anything we should expect going forward or just more incremental blocking and tackling smaller steps? Right now it is just incremental blocking and tackling.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And we will take it from there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Mark Warren from Morgan Stanley.
Hi there.
I was just wondering if could comment on any changes you have seen from your business customers in terms of economic outlook or decisions cycles and then also if you are seeing or foresee any impacts from sequestration in our government business? Yeah.
We think the economy is pretty fragile still.
However in the business side we are seeing still strong demand for business service IT services.
We had mixed signals.
We have the housing starts improving.
At the same time you get the sequestration as you mentioned.
We got the higher taxes from the first of the year so it’s really a mixed bag in what we are seeing here.
But bottom line we think we are going to see consumer demand be weak investing full forecast we agree with that.
We don’t see government demand weak.
So we see our own growth coming from the business sectors in our view.
We were seeing demand there.
We were seeing a longer cycle times as well in the business sector.
So it’s not totally negative but we are not seeing the growth by any means there that we hope to see maybe in the second half of the year.
Karen will add to that.
Yeah.
I would.
Two adds there.
In terms of just what the different business strengths right now in business solution really is around MPLS Ethernet bandwidth.
And so we’ve been very successful in getting large MPLS type of customer.
What’s important for these large customers to have diversity of course and as they are looking around at other carrier or letting change their position extremely well and winning or loss goes on in that particular segment saying that relative to the economy and such.
I would say that actually there is a bright spot here because businesses at least lot of the businesses that spoke until recently are looking for ways to do things differently.
And so they really are a very serious to that looking at that ousourcing and taking their IT and outsourcing at or even some of the network sources and getting that sourced.
I have been in conversations with very different even that it was six or eight months ago because I believe businesses have to do things differently.
And they see this as one opportunity for us.
So we are pretty encouraged with that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from [David Fritz] from Citigroup.
Thank you.
Just following up on the stock repurchasing conversation.
Would you consider using your revolver to repurchase stock with normal cash? David I mean we’ve really primarily used free cash flow during the first quarter.
We don’t have anything drawn on our revolver now.
We will consider using the revolver to a certain extent.
But again it’s going to be used in for opportunistic purchases.
We did commit to the agencies and just from to ourselves from a liquidity standpoint that since we are non-investment grade now at least at the parent company we are going to keep a $1 billion free on the $2 billion revolver just from the liquidity standpoint.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just data point update did you get any dividends from your subsidiaries Embarq or QCI score? We did pay dividends.
We did pay quarterly dividends from ourselves up to the parent company yeah from Embarq and QC.
Okay.
And then finally when would you expect to release the financials for Embarq this quarter? Actually we adjust our website.
Yeah.
They are password protected and only those to bond investors that own the bonds in Embarq.
So they are not really broadly distributed.
The QC 10-Q that will be filed prior to the due date probably on Monday.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Adele from Morningstar.
Just really quickly on nice step-up in DSO broadband in the first half last year just curious if you could give any more color on (inaudible) and any additional details you can provide on what type of speed customers you are taking on that value chain would be helpful too.
Mike we missed a part of your questions you got gargled would you repeat the question please? Sure on the DSO I asked just in terms of the competitive environment any changes in there for the past quarter or so and then what type of speeds you see your customers take on average? I got the speed question I am not sure the first question.
On the speed we are seeing speed probably in the 10 12 meg category.
So we do see customers wanting to take higher speed.
And the first question was around the competitive environment in general it is competitive environment and continuing to be in competitive environment.
And we continue to execute very well and we will continue to be competitive.
Our next question comes from Stanley Martinez from Legal &amp; General.
Curious in the bond issuance that you conducted in March you did that at the senior unsecured and just wondering was that expeditiously in order to access term capital relatively quickly to pay down the revolver or as you proceed to share buyback end you potentially draw on the facility more in Q2 and have to would you seek to use some of your capacity at the Holdco at the senior secured rather than senior unsecured potentially to issue notes which are callable to provide yourself with more optionality and maybe reduce our interest cost further? Yeah Stanley at this point first of all we did just the $1 billion issuance and we’re really going for $500 million and had so much demand and the rate was so good we decided to take $1 billion.
But we basically used that to repay the credit facility as well as we had a maturity coming up about that time of that company so we paid debt off as well.
In terms of using senior secured debt we’ve not discussed that at this point.
I think as long as the unsecured markets are where they are.
We will continue to use the unsecured markets in the parent company.
What about in terms of adding some more interest rate optionality to the debt portfolio in terms of callables versus the normal term loans that you do now might that be an additional way to try to optimize things as you put into the high yield entity? We will look at it Stanley as it comes along and as we look at each potential issuance that we can get a significantly better rate and get some optionality.
At this point we are basically -- first issuance we did was really almost just like we were an investment grade issuer really was not difference at all in terms of the execution and the demand and the rate for that --- Our next question comes from Michael McCormack from Nomura Securities.
Could you say a comment regarding cable competition I know Karen you said you’re pretty happy with your speeds relative to other competitors.
But are you seeing cable getting more aggressive and trying to attack you on speed and then on the small business side what you’re seeing from a cable perspective? Yeah in terms of what I said I think the question was around -- we will remain competitive and that’s really around the execution in terms of speaking of that that is a challenge clearly.
DOCSIS 3 continues to be a challenge it has been.
So it’s not a different challenge it’s the same challenge but pretty well deployed.
In terms of the cable into small business they have been aggressive they made margin estimate they put feet on the street and they continue to progress in that particular area and we will continue to be very focus in the SMB and small business side of house also.
Okay.
Karen just on the high speed side is there any thoughts internally to be accelerating trying to get fiber deeper adjust those and be able to continue to rollout we are seeing a lot more consumption in the home? And I would say that our history shows that I think relative to the type of company we are -- we have to have different toolboxes depending on the density and the demographics.
So we focus not only density but we try to use our capital in a very targeted away and going where we have the higher demographics to provide the GPON type services if that continues to work for us.
Omaha definitely is the trial.
They had a whole lot of fiber in the particular footprint from the fire video service that was there.
And so this gives us a chance in a very economical way to go in and look at what are the propensity to buy what are the churn rates what are the fee take rates what’s the best kind of market so really excited about that.
On a greenfield basis we always try to put fiber in.
And then as long as we can kind of continue to push fiber in when we have the opportunity we will.
But again fiber doesn’t know it’s incredibly important and so we got different technologies depending on the profile of the network and the customers segment we are going after.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question for today comes from Phil Cusick from J.P.
Morgan.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Can you talk a little bit more about the Prism TV efforts? In Phoenix you said that there was a good start there.
Can talk more about the one gig efforts in Omaha and the pending soft launch should we expect a higher general OpEx both from the Omaha efforts and the soft launch or is that sort of baked into the guidance at this point and figured you could get through it? It’s definitely baked into the guidance.
And we’ve taken a lot of cost out of business as we continue to bring Prism in.
So we’ve done a pretty good job of balancing that.
In terms of Phoenix and Prism we are into soft launch incredible encouraged by the results not only from the customers take rate but frankly from the execution of the operational teams.
And really it's one of the best soft launches that we have but you get key learnings along the way.
In terms of Omaha a couple of things.
The reason we are there because there was a video product that Qwest had there prior.
The franchise agreement was up.
We had some decisions to make.
We looked at that footprint which is a nice dense area and it was just left with lots of fiber running right by the home and so that give us a rich opportunity to really try out GPON in a bigger way.
And so again the reasons for that is to really test the technology to take rates in a go to market and take the learning and then make decisions from there.
I might just add to that Phil.
If you look at the rest of the year and you look at the expenses that have been increasing as we mentioned -- Stewart mentioned earlier lot of expense -- lot of the issues driving expenses or the factors driving expenses is our investments in the new service like Prism our Data Hosting expansion our broadband expansion where we have business cases that are going to drive revenues or are tied to revenue even including our fiber to the tower works.
Lot of our CapEx as well as our OpEx the rest of the year are tied to growth efforts.
So we are pleased with our ability to really contain our expenses or focus our expense our investments as we like to tell them all all these out there we expect revenue growth to occur over the next couple of years.
And if I may one more quick one.
I apologize if you talked about this in your prepared remarks but you talked about one-time expense reductions your experienced during the first quarter.
Can you just detail for this for us a little bit? Yeah.
Phil we had some probably about $20 million of one-time items that were expense reductions and really some timing items as well in the first quarter that weren’t spent that will be spent later in the year such as our branding campaign that got started a little bit late.
And so some of the expenses that we expected in the first quarter get pushed out in the second quarter.
So just a few items like that a few items from the standpoint of either one-time credits that we had in the quarter expenses related to tax settlements things like that.
A large access settlement.
Even we had an access settlement as well.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I’m showing no further question at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you Saeed.
We are pleased with the solid results which we achieved in the first quarter.
Customer diversification and product portfolio expansion in recent years has positioned us well to grow our strategic revenues from our mix of small and large enterprise customers.
We also believe our strategic product portfolio positions us to differentiate our cloud and managed services offerings through the bundling of both network and cloud services the expansion of our Prism TV service from the recent launch of savvisdirect our managed hosting cloud services platform for small and medium business customers further strengthens our product portfolio and should provide us additional revenue growth opportunities in 2013 and beyond.
And finally I’m pleased with the strong progress we made on the share buyback program over the past three months.
And we look forward to the opportunities through the remainder of this year presents.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's second quarter 2013 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for question and answer.
On slide two you will find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for third quarter and full year 2013 and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us and our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Now turning to slide three your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen today will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer; and also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of our Wholesale Operations and Jeff Von Deylen President of Savvis.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through August 14 2013 and the webcast replay through August 28 2013.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of August 7 2013 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to slide four I’ll now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss CenturyLink’s second quarter 2013 results.
We were very pleased with the financial results for the second quarter and the first half of this year and we continue to make good progress on a number of fronts.
Operating revenues for the second quarter were in line with our expectations while operating cash flow and adjusted earnings per share were near the high end of our previous guidance.
We believe our investments and our key strategic growth initiatives continue to strengthen our overall product portfolio further positioning CenturyLink as a leading integrated provider of global network co-location managed hosting and cloud solutions.
Demand from business customers for high bandwidth network and data hosting services continues to drive solid sales opportunities for integrated solutions.
If you’ll turn to Slide 5 I’d like to begin with some highlights from the second quarter.
We generated solid financial results with annual strategic revenue growth of 4.1% strength in revenue from high speed internet high-bandwidth data services data hosting and Prism TV were the primary drivers of this growth.
Additionally we have maintained our focus on expenses as we reduced cash expenses by $45 million or 1.7% from the year-ago period driven primarily by lower personnel- and data integration costs.
From a business market perspective we experienced strong new sales to business customers across the company for network and hosting services in the second quarter.
Also during the quarter we made good progress in the share repurchase program we announced in February.
Through August 6 2013 we repurchased nearly 29 million shares or 4.6% of our outstanding common stock for a total of approximately $1 billion.
We have repurchased shares aggressively over the past few months and we expect to opportunistically buy back additional shares going forward.
We continue to expect to complete the $2 billion repurchase by February of 2015.
We still anticipate improvement in our strategic revenue growth in the second half of this year.
However we do expect this level of improvement to be slightly lower than the more aggressive growth we originally anticipated.
And finally I’m pleased we have reached a tentative agreement in contract negotiations with the Communications Workers of America in many of our -- covering many of our western states.
Our focus during these negotiations has been to align the call structure and work rules under this agreement with the rest of our organization and the competitive dynamics in the market targets where we operate.
If you turn to Slide 6 I’ll provide an update on our key strategic initiatives starting with broadband expansion and enhancement.
We continue to make significant investments in this area that we believe will benefit our business and consumer customers.
We ended the quarter with approximately 5.91 million broadband subscribers.
We did experience the first ever decline in broadband net adds in the second quarter due to typical seasonality and lower than normal level of indirect sales.
While this quarter was challenging we do expect broadband subscriber net adds to be positive for the remainder of this year.
We believe our fiber assets position us well in the business market.
In the first half of 2013 we put over 1000 of our fiber-fed multi-tenant buildings into our advanced MTU program which offers customers broadband capability of up to 500Mbps of symmetrical service and enhances cloud connectivity for these customers.
In addition we plan to leverage our existing fiber to opportunistically expand GPON capabilities into nearby high density business districts offering broadband speeds of up to 1gig.
Both the MTU and GPON programs offer upstream speeds and business service level agreements beyond what is normally available with cable and they make these capabilities particularly compelling in the business market where upstream capabilities are critical to enablement of cloud services.
The business areas where we do not offer our advanced MTU or GPON programs would essentially deploy Ethernet.
We cover over 2 million business locations with Ethernet capability with about half of this footprint capable of 20 megabits and higher symmetrical speeds today.
In the months ahead we expect to continue making investments in our network to enhance speed capabilities required to deliver competitive broadband products and services across our markets.
Turning now to slide seven.
Our Prism TV service continues to perform well and represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to cable TV service in the markets where we offer this service.
We added over 12 000 Prism TV subscribers in the second quarter ending the quarter with a total of 132 000 subscribers in service.
These customers continue to have a high rate of broadband attachment it was actually 97% in the second quarter this year.
And there were 50% of these customers who were new to CenturyLink.
We now have a penetration rate of nearly 9% across the markets in which the service is available and that includes the newest markets of Phoenix Colorado Springs and Omaha Prism TV triple play bundled customers are significantly less likely to churn then single play voice customers.
In the second quarter the churn rate for Prism TV triple play customers was over 500 basis points lower than the single play voice customers.
We are pleased with the early Prism subscriber growth in Phoenix our first legacy Qwest market in which we provided this service.
And in the second quarter we also commercially launched the service in Colorado Springs and soft launched in Omaha with or fiber-to-prim service.
Additionally we continue to enhance our IPTV features by introducing new functionality and applications including expansion of our TV Everywhere capabilities video-on-demand library and a recent successful trial of wireless set-top boxes.
Now going to slide eight.
A third key strategic initiative is investing in fiber builds to as many towers in our services areas as economically feasible.
During the second quarter we completed more than 1150 fiber-to-the-tower builds for a total of over 16 700 across our footprint.
We currently expect to complete a total of 4000 to 5000 builds in 2013.
As we have discussed with you before we are experiencing some revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers transition from copper based DS1 facilities to fiber-based Ethernet services.
However we anticipate that wireless data bandwidth growth will result in expansion of Ethernet consumption reversing the current revenue compression during 2014.
Now moving on to slide nine in managed hosting and cloud services.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to capitalize on long-term growth opportunities in this space where we have developed and are expanding our strong product offering for businesses of all sizes.
We continue to build upon solid momentum of the past two quarters with solid new sales again this quarter.
Cross-sell or team selling opportunities for hosting products across our hosting and networks sales teams continues to be strong with sales of hosting services to business customers steadily growing.
We also continue to invest to increase our data center capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
In the second quarter we opened a new data center in London adding approximately 25 000 square feet of saleable floor space.
And for full year 2013 we continue to expect to add a total of approximately 87 000 saleable square feet of which over 57 000 has been added in the first half of the year.
Our recent acquisition of AppFog a rapidly growing platform-as-a-service provider used by more than 100 000 developers who have deployed over 150 000 applications represents an excellent addition to our Savvis cloud service suite.
We are offering multiple programming languages and interoperability between public and private cloud environments.
And AppFog delivers a reliable scalable and fast platform for developing apps in the cloud.
Combining AppFog's market leading platform-as-a-service capability with our industry-leading infrastructure-as-a-service Savvis cloud services and our global network CenturyLink will enable the developers to securely and reliably operate and connect to applications they build and deploy.
We look forward to making the full suite of AppFog services available to both our existing and perspective customers in the weeks ahead.
Finally in June Savvis was recognized as a leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for our European Managed Hosting another confirmation of CenturyLink’s global leadership position in managed hosting.
Overall I’m pleased with the financial results for the quarter.
We continue to invest to drive growth and are experiencing good traction in those key areas.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Thank you Glen.
I’ll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the second quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the first quarter and full year 2013 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Starting on Slide 11 beginning this quarter we’re providing guidance on core revenues.
Core revenues reflect the two largest contributors to operating revenues our strategic revenues and legacy revenues.
Strategic and legacy revenues account for approximately 91% of total revenues and are primarily recurring in nature.
Core revenues exclude revenues from data integration which includes primarily customer premise equipment sales and related maintenance and other revenues which includes primarily universal service receipts.
As you can see in the chart on Slide 11 the green line represents the annual percent change for core revenues while the orange line represents the annual percent change for total revenues.
The core revenue trend has improved from a 3.2% decline in pro forma 2011 to 2.3% decline in 2012 and we expect further improvement in 2013 with a decline of 0.9% to 1.5%.
we believe this trend is a more accurate reflection of the underlying business as it takes out the noise of changing USF contribution rates and the lower margin CPE business.
Turning to slide 12 with that let’s move to our results for the second quarter.
I’ll be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
As you can see we generated solid operating revenues and cash flows in the quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.53 billion on a consolidated basis and this represents a 1.9% decline from second quarter 2012 operating revenues.
Our core revenues were $4.11 billion for second quarter a decline of 1.6% from the year ago period.
Strategic revenue in the quarter increased to 48% of total revenue from 45% in the second quarter a year ago due to growth in strategic products such as high-speed internet high-bandwidth data services Prism TV and Managed Hosting Services.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.69.
As we’ve discussed on prior calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Total cash operating expenses declined from second quarter 2012 to second quarter 2013.
This decline was primarily the result of lower personnel related and data integration costs.
We generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.86 billion for the second quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 41.1%.
Additionally we generated $703 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us with financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Now turning to slide 13 the decline in second quarter 2013 operating revenues compared to second quarter a year ago was primarily a result of growth in strategic revenues that was more than offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
The growth in our strategic revenues was primarily driven by strength in high-speed internet high-bandwidth business data services and our data hosting services.
Now turning to Slide 14 which is our consumer segment.
I’ll discuss each of the operating segments beginning with consumer.
Consumer generated $1.4 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 3% over second quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 6.4% year over year to $628 million.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 8.7% from second quarter 2012 due primarily to a continued decline in access lines long distance revenues partially mitigated by implementation of the access recovery charge in July of 2012.
Expenses in this segment declined $17 million or 3% during second quarter compared to the same period a year ago driven mainly by lower bad debt expense network and facility costs which were partially offset by higher costs associated with our Prism TV product.
Moving to slide 15.
Our business segment generated $1.53 billion in operating revenues during the second quarter which were slightly below revenues from the same year ago period.
Second quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased by 4.6% to $617 million from second quarter 2012 driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
Excluding low bandwidth services strategic revenue grew nearly 10% from a year ago.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined 4.9% from second quarter 2012 due primarily to a continuing decline in access line and long distance revenues partially mitigated by the implementation of the excess recovery charge in mid-year 2012.
The total segment expenses declined $6 million driven by lower data integration and network cost partially offset by higher facility cost.
Now turning to slide 16.
Our wholesale segment generated $910 million in operating revenues a decline of 3.8% from second quarter 2012.
Strategic revenues for wholesale were $572 million nearly flat from second quarter 2012 as declining low speed transport services revenue offset growth in Ethernet services and data bandwidth capacity expansion by the wireless carriers.
Legacy revenues declined by 9% to $338 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long-distance minutes of use and the implementation of lower access rates under the CAF Order rate step down.
Our operating expenses for the quarter in this segment were $301 million 3.8% below the same period a year ago driven primarily by lower facility cost.
Now moving to slide 17 and our data hosting segment which includes all colocation managed hosting cloud services and hosting related network services revenue.
This segment generated $347 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 7.4% from second quarter 2012 revenues of $323 million.
This growth came primarily from year-over-year increases of 2.1% in colocation revenues and 20.7% in managed hosting and cloud services revenues.
Second quarter 2013 revenues included approximately $15 million of revenue contribution from the Ciber IT outsourcing assets acquired in October 2012.
Excluding this revenue managed hosting revenue grew 7.4% year-over-year.
Data hosting revenues also grew 4% sequentially from first quarter this year driven by strength in the managed hosting products.
Data hosting operating expenses were $273 million in second quarter compared to $239 million in second quarter 2012.
This increase of 14% is driven by added data center expansion operations and sales and marketing headcount to support revenue growth including headcount for savvisdirect and enabling sales channels along with expenses related to the acquisition of the Ciber ITO assets not present in the prior year period.
Turning to slide 18 we provide our third quarter and full-year 2013 guidance.
For the third quarter 2013 we expect total operating revenues of $4.5 billion to $4.55 billion.
And core revenues of $4.09 billion to $4.14 billion and operating cash flow between $1.79 billion and $1.83 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be in a range from $0.59 to $0.64.
Our anticipated sequential decline in third quarter operating cash flow and adjusted diluted EPS compared to second quarter results is primarily due to higher seasonal expenses we typical incur in the third quarter each year associated with our outside plants maintenance and utility costs and increased costs related to our continued investment in key initiatives.
For the full year 2013 the company has updated its guidance to reflect year to date results as well as updated expectations for the remainder of the year.
Full year revenues guidance has been lowered slightly to $18.05 billion to $18.2 billion.
Although our first half results were in line with our previous expectations and our second half forecast reflects improved growth rates for total revenues we anticipate that these levels of growth will be slightly lower than the more aggressive amounts we originally anticipated.
Some of the primary drivers of this reduced level of growth in the second half of the year are slower acceleration in data hosting revenue growth rates a faster rate of decline in our low bandwidth services and lower than originally anticipated federal universal service of contribution rates which really is a flow-through item.
This level of revenue growth in the second half of 2013 although still reflecting a positive trend in growth rates is lower than our original projections and we believe will likely result in a slight decline in 2014 total revenues compared to 2013.
Additionally we have tightened the ranges for operating cash flow and adjusted diluted EPS.
Even with the revision to our revenue guidance these new projections for operating cash flow and adjusted diluted EPS are better than our original 2013 projections due to our control of cash expenses during the year and the impact of our share repurchases.
We also expect capital expenditures to range from $2.9 billion to $3 billion due to increased investment in broadband capacity higher than expected success-based business sales and an increase in new sub-division Greenfield fiber bills.
This increased capital investment also influenced the revision in our free cash flow guidance for the year.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I’ll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
So Stewart 90 days ago you guys came out and raised the expectations for the business.
And then now we're taking them back down actually pretty much to where they started on EBITDA but a little bit lower on revenues.
And we had this line in the sand for trying to get to flattish revenues for a long time in 2014.
So something over the last 90 days seems to have really dramatically changed to back away from these longstanding targets.
And I guess obviously everyone is going to run around with their hair on fire until we find out what it is.
Can you elaborate on what's going on? That would be great.
David I think the primary things affecting the latter half of the year number one the (inaudible) rate is down.
So that contributes somewhat to the decline in revenue.
Can you quantify that Stewart? How much of that change is related to that? It’s probably about $20 million or so.
The other -- let me get it David just a second.
$25 million to $30 million David.
And then I guess the other things affecting the last half of the year really is the Savvisdirect product that we rolled out.
The sales channel through the Internet has not materialized as quickly as we had hoped.
We've done a good job we think with Savvis in terms of cross-selling the Savvis products into -- and gaining momentum there in the second quarter and expecting to gain some more momentum in the third quarter but Savvisdirect probably about $20 million below what we had hoped the second half of the year to be.
And then our lower speed products lower bandwidth products probably about $30 million or so there.
Primarily again related to a little bit faster conversion of our fiber-to-the-tower where we are disconnecting the copper circuits and seeing some of the compression a little bit quicker than we had anticipated.
So those are really the three primary items that are affecting the latter half of the year.
And I guess sort of as a follow-up to that.
I mean as we kind of lower the EBITDA expectation and raise the CapEx expectation.
I mean this is kind of the scenario that you don’t want to see for a dividend paying company if it kind of continues along these trends.
So if you look into the back half of the year what are upside surprises what are the -- as you look into your next 90 days what are the downside surprises that could potentially emerge here? As -- frankly we have got everything built in.
Jim we lowered the EBITDA but we lowered it basically back to where we started it first of the year and then in fact we have got costs in the latter half of the year associated with some of the growth initiatives.
And we think they are in fact starting to drive revenue.
We are starting to see some of that effect.
And we just don’t want to back down from the standpoint of reducing the expenses associated with that.
On the CapEx side most of the incremental CapEx where we effectively raised it got us maybe [$50 million] or so thereby closing the gap from $2.8 billion to $3 billion to $2.9 billion to $3 billion.
It's more associated with success that we are having on the customer side and the business segment as well as new home developments or new subdivision developments which hopefully again over the long term will translate into revenue opportunities for customers in those areas because we are putting fiber in most of those subdivisions to enable more high bandwidth services to those areas.
The third area was basically just capacity growth within the network just for normal growth and due to really our customers using video streaming more as they are across the rest of the industry as well.
So again not a significant increase there.
And two out of three of those really should result in increased revenue over time and the third increase in bandwidth should help us with our being able to add new high-speed internet customers and maintain the customers that we have.
All right thanks Stewart.
And I could just this is my last one is just given that you are chewing through the buyback so quickly are you willing to keep your kind of foot on the gas on that buyback? Or given that you are kind of moving into the second billion dollars already are you going to slow it down? David I think that depends on where stock price goes.
We essentially have been using all of our free cash flow to repurchase shares.
And in fact that's where the incremental free cash flow has gone in the first six months of the year.
And I think it just really depends.
We'll be opportunistic in the latter half of the year and next year and we'll -- it really again just depends on the stock price.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brett Feldman from Deutsche Bank.
I was hoping we could dig into the broadband sub losses a little bit.
Just a couple of questions there.
So first of all on the seasonality.
Could you just remind us is the seasonal slowdown typically a function of gross adds or churn and to what extent were those similar or different than what you've usually seen.
I'm also interested in the impact of the indirect channel.
Maybe just explain a little more happened there? And then the last question is of the customers that you are losing are you seeing any consistency for example they tend to be lower speed customers as opposed to higher speed customers? Hi this is Karen Puckett.
In terms of seasonality.
Seasonality as we've grown in with the Qwest acquisition we have more snowbird type states and so we did have a lot of a success with snowbirds in terms of getting them in.
Typically that's people going back to the Northeast or to the Midwest as well college students.
So that's typical in terms and we pretty much told in last call that upcoming with seasonality.
On the indirect side we have a particular partner that basically had some underperformance relative to churn rates and that caught us.
In terms of the churn to lower what I would say is the footprint if we look at our fiber-to-the-node footprint we certainly have better churn in closed rates than we do on our ATM footprint.
So that is a fact.
But we now have 7.4 million households on our fiber-to-the-node product.
So as you think about the back half of the year you obviously get a seasonal boost in the third quarter.
Is that the principal reason why you’re optimistic you'll return to growth or are there any other things going on that should help that through the balance of the year? We’re pretty good on execution on high speed.
We have a good track record.
So I’m confident that we will be back positive.
Obviously the back half of the year we don't have the seasonal situation.
And we always have our plans in place to know pretty much every day where the levers are.
So we’re confident on the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
I guess two things on the revenue side.
First on Prism can you give us an update there? You talked about higher investment in the second half.
Is that a little bit more Prism efforts? And then second on the revenue in '14 should we still -- is it still fair to expect that at some point in '14 revenue grows sequentially quarter-to-quarter or should we be still sitting and watching it track down through '14? Thanks.
Your last question I guess in terms of revenue I guess we’re not ready to put a stake in the ground in terms of quarter-to-quarter 2014.
But we think we’ll be able to give more guidance there certainly not at the end of the third quarter but at the end of the fourth quarter as we normally do.
But again we’re tweaking our revenue guidance a little bit.
It’s not significant in terms of the real aggregate dollar change.
In terms of Prism TV there’s really not any additional CapEx on Prism TV in the second half for the most part.
There may be a little bit of increased expenses because we continue to roll out more areas in the Phoenix market and also the Omaha markets and Colorado Springs.
So there may be slightly increased expenses associated with Prism in the back half of the year compared with the first half.
And then as we -- despite a little bit of a revenue downtick we're getting closer to revenue being flat at this point.
Is there a significant change in your mindset when you reach that flat revenue? Does that open things up strategically for you a little bit more whether that's acquiring other companies or being little more aggressive in terms of investing in the business? Phil I’m not sure it opens things up necessarily.
We're focused right now on our key growth areas growth objectives growth strategies as we have been.
We believe that there is significant growth there.
We don't think we have to acquire in order to drive growth.
And with our stock price being suppressed we believe undervalued right now obviously that makes a large transaction difficult today.
That being said we will continue to consider inorganic opportunities but we will maintain our very disciplined approach in making those decisions.
So we’d see now what the opportunities are.
And then obviously I think if you turn to revenue -- the revenue dynamics around and see revenue flat and eventual growth and certainly the stock price should follow that.
But that is obviously a major factor here in larger acquisition decisions.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Wonder if we could just talk a little bit more about savvisdirect.
Could you just do a little bit of diagnostic on what was the reasons behind the shortfall? Was it the timing of the product? Was it pricing? Or what are the feedbacks you’re getting in terms of why that didn't ramp? And is that something that is just delayed a couple of quarters we should see that benefit in '14? And then on the union deal I understand it's not ratified but is there anything in your 2013 guidance set out for benefits from that or is that all likely to flow through in 2014? Hi Simon.
This is Jeff Von Deylen.
I'll take the one on Savvisdirect and then pass it Glen or Stewart on the union question.
On savvisdirect clearly that product is set to -- we really rolled that out to deliver an online and web channel platform which we didn't have in the legacy Savvis cloud platform.
It was more of an enterprise play.
So I think that market is difficult in terms of adoption rate and we are behind some of what is pretty aggressive ramp up in growth in the second half of the year.
So I think it's the right platform the right capabilities I just think the uptake and penetration is slower than original plan.
We also think that AppFog frankly that acquisition is really strategic to our cloud platform.
Especially as we think about the enterprise which is where our hosting services play best.
So we're really looking at AppFog with developers together with our entire suite of Savvis could products to really give us an opportunity to talk to enterprises and the developers in the enterprises where we weren't able to talk to before to accelerate more of that cloud play.
So we're short on the online and web but frankly think that the play with the developer and strengthening our enterprise portfolio is the right move for us.
Regarding the union we have not factored in any benefit or cost in our forecast for rest of the year Simon.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Just one more follow-up on the guidance question.
The low end of the new revenue guidance is outside of the prior range.
So does this change mean that you expect to come in at the low end of the guidance in terms of revenues or how could that sort of change throughout the second half? And second question on the cost side you mentioned that you still have more cost cutting initiatives.
Can you provide more color on where they could come from and how do you think about margins going forward? So Batya the low end of the guidance being outside of the prior range does not mean that we basically are targeting the low end of the range.
One of the reasons we lowered the top end is because of the (inaudible) rate which again is probably $30 million or so of short fall in the second half of the year.
So it shouldn't be an indication that we expect to come in at the low end of the range.
In terms of other cost saving opportunities I guess we have been saying the last few quarters that we think our margins will continue to come down slightly.
We have been able to through managing the cost been able to keep them fairly flat.
But I would think that we would still say that just with the margin compression that you see with losing the higher margin revenue and substituting for that the lower margin revenue from some of the services that we are growing.
Basically you would see some margin compression over time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Obviously you have a balancing act here between stock buybacks and CapEx and I know you are spending at the much higher range than your peers.
But can you think if you spend a bit more on CapEx to get more the fiber-out-to-node a little faster that could help the growth rate.
And it seems like it would be pretty high return on invested capital.
Just kind of curious on your thought process balancing that out? Yeah Tim this is Glen.
We debate that on a continual basis.
So balancing that how much we spend on CapEx.
But yes there is no question you can pop more growth by building more fiber fiber deeper.
The question is what your returns are overall and what's the best use of capital.
Capital allocation is one of the most difficult decision I think our entire industry faces.
And one of the potential items when you look at fiber-to-the-node or fiber deeper in the network and then fiber-to-the-prim fiber-to-the-businesses and to use those are all part of the decision making process.
And what we look at is trying to invest in the areas that can drive the most growth and also have the solid margins.
And that's what we're looking at.
So that's a continual decision process for us really.
(Operator instructions).
Our next question comes from Alex (inaudible) from Raymond James.
It's actually Frank who made it to the call.
Quick question looking at the Savvis business it looks like the co-location growth is about 2% year-over-year.
Can you talk us about what's going on there? It just seems like it’s maybe not getting as much traction as you maybe had expected.
Is there anything structurally there going on or anything from a market perspective or demand perspective that you're seeing? What’s driving that growth rate there? Hi Frank Jeff again.
On co-lo I think one of the things we continue to manage through is some large -- we talked about this I think in the last call some large customer churn events.
We've got customers like eBay Yahoo who are building their own data centers.
They are existing customers.
They are ultimately going to exit our data centers.
So it's about managing them out and then our fill rate back in.
So we still feel good about that business and that market.
I think we have a tremendous opportunity to add more what I'll call retail customers into that and especially the -- as Glen talked about the teeming success of the CenturyLink customers.
So you'll see us continue to expand our footprint in co-location.
It will likely be in markets that are legacy network sites like Minnesota like Arizona like North Carolina.
So I think we feel good about the market.
I think our customer mix is changing.
We think that's a higher value and a better margin customer.
But we've got to manage through some larger end customers who have built out their own facilities.
I might just add to that.
Frank if you look at our cloud services growth is close to 25% and our managed services is the high teens.
So it’s really some of the local network side that was slower and the co-lo side that was slower growth for us.
And we have not invested as heavily from a CapEx standpoint in -- with data centers as some of the company sales.
So we don't expect to have the 15% growth in co-lo side because we don't believe the return is good there long-term as some of the other opportunities we have.
Then look at the Connect America Fund money you've been offered any thoughts on how much of that looks attractive to you how much you think you might be taking or when you might be able to give us an update on that? Could you repeat that question? Looking at some of the new Connect America Fund money that's been offered the new second release of CAF 1 any thoughts on how much of what you’ve been allocated? Do you think that you all will choose or any update on when you might be able to give us an update on when you might determine how much of that is available to you you'd be willing to take? Frank we expect to have a significant amount available under CAF 2 probably in excess of $400 million.
We’re not sure yet.
That's just an estimate there.
It depends on what their terms are.
We are hearing pretty positive feedback from the FCC that they really want to encourage investment in low density rural areas.
So we’re hopeful that that could be a catalyst for us and as far as expanding our investment in areas that are under served or unserved really today.
On the CAF -- latest CAF 1 we were allocated $90 million.
We’re not sure how much of that we’ll spend but we are looking at that as we speak and we'll spend quite a bit of that in the next year or so.
We have the FCC in late August.
And our final question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi.
I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit more longer term about ideally how big you want to see Prism within your footprint in terms of homes path.
And is there a way of thinking about if you want to get to that point what the investment implications of that would be? Mike we certainly look at that and it's really success based from our standpoint.
We've said before we want to see how Phoenix and Colorado Springs doe in these larger markets and we have Omaha with the gig service now.
And we'll make decisions after that.
We think around 30% or more of our access lines are suitable for our Prism service.
So that what's on our radar right now.
We continue to look at compression technologies and other ways to make that footprint even larger.
But if we continue to see success in Phoenix and Colorado Springs then we will have more reasons to go after other markets more quickly.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you Saeed.
Please turn to slide 24 as we close today's call.
Overall we are pleased with our results for the second quarter.
We believe our continued investment in key strategic opportunities continued to help us drive revenue growth and strong financial results and will over time.
Our strategic product and services development continue to strengthen CenturyLink's competitive position and our guidance reflects our expectation that our revenues in these strategic services will continue to grow.
The expansion of our Prism TV service and the recent launch of managed hosting and cloud services for small and midsize businesses will further strengthen the product portfolio and should provide us additional revenue growth opportunities in 2013 and beyond.
And lastly we are pleased with the progress we've made in the share repurchase program since inception in mid-February and we will continue that program in the months ahead.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's third quarter 2013 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
On Slide 2 you will find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for fourth quarter 2013 and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us and our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Now turning to Slide 3.
Your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen today will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer; and also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of our Wholesale Operations and Jeff Von Deylen President of Savvis.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through November 13 2013 and the webcast replay through November 27 2013.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of November 6 2013 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to Slide 4 I’ll now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
First I would like to take a moment to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of our employees in the Northern Colorado region.
During the worst of the flooding that occurred during September we got thousands of customers experienced service outages among of course other hardships.
Our local field operations team worked around the clock and managed unprecedented workloads for several weeks and we brought resources from around the states and country into the Front Range areas to support our local teams and they did they all did an amazing job restoring service to our customers there.
So (inaudible) including our employees who have been partially impacted by that event.
Turning to slide five we are pleased with our financial results for the third quarter.
We continue to make good progress on number of fronts.
We believe our investments and our key strategic growth initiatives continue to strengthen our overall product portfolio which further position CenturyLink as a leading integrated provider of global network data hosting and cloud solutions.
I want to address a couple of significant special items that affected our financial results for the quarter.
First as you saw in the release we booked $1.1 billion non-cash goodwill impairment in the quarter.
The impairment was related to goodwill assigned to the data hosting segment and it was primarily due to our recent performance impacted into the development of growth projections used for calculating impairment.
We are not satisfied with our recent results in this segment of our business and we will be taking aggressive step to drive the revenue growth and margin.
Margins in this segment to be more in line with industry growth rates are going forward.
Certainly we have reached tentative agreement on the principal financial term a potential settlement of the KPNQwest bankruptcy litigation in the Netherlands.
The oral agreement was reached following confidential mediation between CenturyLink KPN and KPNQwest trustees.
As a result we have recorded €172 million or $233 million based on September 30 2013 exchange rates pre-tax charge this quarter.
This proposed settlement amount of €172 million is a significantly below the $4.2 billion euro litigation claim.
We are hopeful this settlement will finalized and look forward to putting this issue behind us.
Beginning on slide six I’d like to review some highlights from the third quarter.
We generated solid financial with annual strategic revenue growth of 4.2% excluding low speed private line data services our strategic revenue grew by 12% for the quarter.
Strengthen revenues from high-speed internet high bandwidth data products data hosting and Prism TV were the primary drivers of this growth.
We generated strong subscriber growth in the quarter adding 33 000 broadband customers and 17 000 Prism TV customers.
From our business market perspective we experienced strong new sales to business customers for network and hosting services during the quarter.
And also in the quarter we made strong progress on the share repurchase program we announced in February through November 5th this year we repurchased 38 million shares or 6.1% of our outstanding common stock totaled approximately $1.3 billion.
We have repurchased shares aggressively since the start of the program and we expect to opportunistically buyback additional shares going forward.
Due to combination of dividend and share repurchases we return over $2.2 billion to shareholders through the first three quarters of the year that’s a 63% increase compared to approximately $1.4 billion during the first quarter of 2012.
Let’s turn to slide seven I’ll provide an update on our key strategic initiatives starting with broadband expansion and enhancements.
We continue to make significant investments in this area that we believe will better serve our customers and our business and our consumer customers.
We ended the quarter with approximately 5.94 million broadband customers.
As I said earlier we added 33 000 new subscribers in the quarter which was a strong improvement from the seasonally weak second quarter.
We believe our fiber assets including nearly 240 000 fiber route-miles across the U.S.
have positioned us well in the business market.
We continue to grow our advanced multi-tenant unit MTU program.
We added 400 fiber-fed buildings in third quarter increasing the number of fiber-fed buildings by 40%.
This program offers broadband capabilities of up to 500 megabit of symmetrical service and enhances cloud connectivity for these business customers.
In addition we plan to leverage our existing fiber to opportunistically expand speed and service capabilities to high value business and consumer customers.
We are focusing on GPON technology in certain high district -- business districts offering broadband speeds of up to 1 gigabit.
Both the MTU and GPON programs offer upstream speeds and business service level agreements for SLAs beyond what is normally available at cable companies.
These offerings are particularly compelling in the business market where upstream capabilities are critical to the enablement of cloud services.
And business areas where we do not offer our advanced MTU or GPON program we would essentially deploy Ethernet services.
We currently cover over 2 million business locations with Ethernet capability with nearly half of this footprint capable of 20 megabits and higher symmetrical speeds.
In Omaha which is our first GPON 1-gigabit market we had deployed 1-gig service capability to over 40 000 homes and we expect to reach nearly 50 000 homes in the trial area during the fourth quarter.
We are very encouraged of these early results in Omaha and we announced in October that we'll expand our fiber network to Las Vegas enabling Internet speed to up to 1 gig to small businesses and select neighborhoods in that market.
In the months ahead we expect to continue making investments in our network to enhance speed capabilities required to deliver competitive broadband products and services across our markets.
Turning now to slide 8.
Our Prism TV service continues to perform well and represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to cable TV service in the markets where we offer this service.
We added a record 17 000 Prism TV subscribers in the third quarter ending with a total of 149 000 subscribers in service.
Over 50% of these added customers are new to CenturyLink and they continue to have a high rate of broadband attachment.
Now this quarter we expect a record level of 98% attachment rate.
We continue to expand the footprint where Prism service is available.
And in the third quarter we added approximately 285 000 addressable homes of which just over half are newest markets of Phoenix Colorado Springs and Omaha.
We are very pleased with the early Prism subscriber growth and our first legacy Qwest market to provide this video service in Colorado Springs and Omaha.
Prism bundle customers are significantly less likely to churn than single-play voice customers.
In the third quarter the churn rate for Prism triple-play customers was over 600 basis points lower than single-play voice customers.
Additionally we continue to enhance our IPTV features by introducing new functionality and applications including expansion of our TV Everywhere capabilities video-on-demand library and a recent successful trial of wireless set-top boxes.
Continuing on now to slide 9.
A third key strategic initiative is investing in fiber builds to as many towers in our services areas as economically feasible.
During the second quarter we completed approximately 1 200 fiber-to-the-tower builds for a total of over 17 900 across our footprint.
We currently expect to complete a total of 3 500 to 4 000 builds in 2013.
That is slightly below our previous expectation of 4 000 to 5 000 primarily due to construction delays by wireless carriers.
As expected we continue to experience some revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers transition from copper-based DS1 facilities to fiber-based Ethernet services.
However we anticipate that wireless data bandwidth growth will result in the expansion of Ethernet consumption and thereby reverse the current revenue compression during 2014.
Moving on to slide 10 managed hosting and cloud services.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to capitalize on long-term growth opportunities in this space where we have developed and are expanding our strong product offerings.
We experience weaker than expected sequential data hosting revenues primarily due to one-time credits and Legacy Qwest Hosting churn in the third quarter.
Despite weaker third quarter revenue we continue to expect revenue growth in the second half of 2013 compared to the first half of 2013.
We continue to build up on solid momentum of the past two quarters with solid new sales again this quarter.
Cross-sell or team selling opportunities for hosting products across our hosting and networks sales teams continues to be strong with sales of hosting services to business customers steadily growing.
We expect this momentum to continue these customers continue indicating strong demand for managed hosting cloud solutions streamline their operations and increase efficiency and reduce cost.
As we work through the exiting of a few major colocation customers from the Legacy Qwest data centers fully enable to selling of hosting products to our large base of business network subscribers and expand our own boarding process.
We expect to see significantly better growth in our hosting operations.
We continue to invest and increase -- to increase our data center capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
We currently have 55 data centers globally.
In the third quarter we had approximately 20 000 square feet of sellable floor space through the expansion of existing facilities in three markets.
And year-to-date we’ve added approximately 80 000 sellable square feet.
Lastly we recently expanded our partnership with VMware allowing Savvis and VMware to offer enterprise services on VMware's hybrid cloud powered by Savvis colocation services and we’re pleased with that partnership development.
Finally before I turn the call over to Stewart I’m pleased that the tentative agreement with CWA and IBEW was ratified in later October.
The contract covers 12 000 employees and will be effective through October 7 2017.
Our focus in these negotiations has been to align the cost structure and work rules under disagreement with the rest of organization and the competitive dynamics in the markets where we operate.
But we’ve made progress towards these objectives.
Overall I’m pleased with the solid results for the third quarter.
We continue to invest to drive growth and are experiencing good traction in these key areas.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results.
Thank you Glen.
I will spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the third quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the fourth quarter guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Turning to slide 12 on a GAAP basis we reported a net loss of $1.05 billion and a loss per share of $0.76 primarily driven by the two special items Glen mentioned earlier that were disclosed in our press release.
With the remainder of my comments I'll be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
As you can see we generated solid operating revenues and cash flows in the quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.52 billion on a consolidated basis or 1.2% decline from third quarter 2012 operating revenues.
Our core revenues defined as strategic revenues plus legacy revenues were $4.1 billion for third quarter a decline of 1% from the year-ago period.
Our strategic revenues grew 4.2% year-over-year and now represent 49% of our total revenues.
Strength in the strategic products such as high-speed Internet and high-bandwidth data services Prism TV and managed hosting services continues to drive this growth.
Third quarter 2013 cash expenses increased 1.4% from the year-ago period driven primarily by higher professional fees and non-employee costs which offset lower personnel related cost.
Included in third quarter expense was less than $5 million related to the Colorado floods Glen mentioned earlier.
We've also incurred less than $10 million of flood-related expense during the month of October.
We generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.81 billion for the third quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 40%.
As we move toward revenue stability we do expect continued pressure on operating cash flow as the revenue mix shift to lower margin products we near the full achievement of operating expense synergies related to the Qwest acquisition.
And lastly we continue to make investments in strategic areas to drive future growth.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for third quarter was $0.63.
As we discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Additionally we generated $761 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us with the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Now turning to slide 13 the 1.2% decline in third quarter 2013 operating revenues compared to third quarter a year ago was primarily the result of growth in strategic revenues that was more than offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
The growth in our strategic revenues was primarily driven by strength in high-speed internet high-bandwidth business data services Prism TV and data hosting services.
Now turning to Slide 14.
I will discuss each of our operating segments beginning first with the consumer segment.
Consumer generated $1.5 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 2.1% over third quarter a year ago.
Our strategic revenues in this segment grew 6.8% year-over-year to $644 million driven by growth in high-speed internet and Prism’s customers and price increases.
The long term growth rate of high-speed internet is likely to slow over time due to our growth in penetration of household.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined 8% from third quarter 2012 due primarily to a continuing decline in access line and long-distance revenues partially mitigated by an increase in the excess recovery charge.
Expenses in this segment declined $5 million or approximately 1% during the third quarter compared to the same period a year ago driven primarily by lower employee related costs which were offset by higher Prism TV costs.
Moving to Slide 15.
Our business segment generated $1.54 billion in operating revenues during the third quarter which were flat with the same period a year ago.
On a sequential basis total revenues grew 1.2% from second-quarter 2013.
Our third quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased by 6.3% to $640 million from third quarter a year ago driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
Excluding low-bandwidth services strategic revenue grew nearly 9% from a year ago.
We continue to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer segments and we see an opportunity for further investment in the small and midsized business customer space to improve our market share and drive further growth.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined 3.8% from third quarter 2012 due primarily to continuing decline in access line and long distance revenues partially mitigated by an increase in the excess recovery charge.
Our total segment expenses increased $22 million or 2.4% driven by higher facility costs partially offset by lower employee related and CPE expenses.
Now turning to Slide 16 our wholesale segment generated $878 million in operating revenues a decline of 3.5% from third quarter 2012.
Strategic revenues for wholesale were $563 million down 1.1% from third quarter 2012 as decline in low-speed transport services revenue offset growth in Ethernet services and data bandwidth capacity expansion by wireless carriers.
Our legacy revenues in this segment declined 7.6% to $315 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long distance minutes of use and the implementation of lower access rates under the CAF order rate step-down.
Our operating expenses for the quarter were $293 million 3.6% below the same period from the year ago driven primarily by lower personnel related facility costs.
Moving to Slide 17 and our data hosing segment which includes all colocation managed hosting cloud services and hosted related network services revenues.
This segment generated $342 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 4.6% from third quarter 2012 revenues of $327 million.
Third quarter 2013 revenues include approximately $14 million of revenue contribution from the Ciber IT outsourcing assets we acquired in October 2012.
Data hosing year-over-year revenue growth was weakened by the impact of large client bankruptcy related churn and price erosion in previous quarters.
Data hosting operating expenses were $274 million in the third quarter compared to $246 million in third quarter a year ago.
This 11% increase is driven primarily by higher employee costs related to the Ciber and Appfog acquisitions that were not present in the prior period.
Despite recent weakness we expect long-term improvement in both revenue and margin trends across the data hosting segment and continue to leverage its assets to drive additional revenue through cross-selling opportunities in our other sectors.
Turning to Slide 18 we provide our fourth quarter 2013 guidance.
For the fourth quarter of this year we expect total operating revenues of $4.5 million to $4.55 million.
Our core revenues of $4.07 billion to $4.12 billion and operating cash flow between $1.75 billion and $1.8 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.55 to $0.60.
Our fourth quarter expenses are expected to increase from third quarter 2013 primarily due to higher data integration costs related to increased CPE sales.
That concludes our prepared remarks for the day.
So at this time I will ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I guess my first question if you could go into what you might imagine lots more detail about what's going on in the data center business? I think two things.
One is on the write-down.
Clearly there's some amount of growth rate in the future that you don't think you are going to achieve that you thought you are going to achieve.
So if you can address what the difference in that growth rate is? And then second on the kind of quarter-to-quarter performance it looks like the managed hosting business went down $5 million.
If you could talk about some of these credits and other things that occurred and I think Glen you mentioned that the data hosting business should grow half over half but it could still go down next quarter and grow half over half? So if you guys could give us little bit more sense as to what the expectation here because last quarter we were still expecting this business to grow single digit so seems like something kind of really went off the rails in the quarter? On the other side of the coin Stewart the midpoint of the revenue guidance is actually the highest revenue that you guys would've had pretty much for the whole year.
And you guys have been talking down revenue growth expectations I think in terms of 2014.
But it feels like we are finding some kind of level so if you could talk about even with the data center business not performing it does feel like we are flattening out on the revenue curve and could you kind of revisit what the puts and takes are for getting to revenue growth in reaching 2014? Thanks.
Hey Dave this is Glen.
And I will see if I could guess it kind of on a couple of items.
But -- I will get to your question about that quarter -- in the fourth quarter we do expect growth.
It won’t be negative is our expectation.
Anyway we expect to see growth in the fourth quarter sequential growth in the 2.5% 3% range is our target for the fourth quarter.
But the -- if you look at this past quarter we have a number of one-time items.
Firstly we had a currency issue of little under $2 million.
We had about a $2 million.
We had couple of prior year adjustments in there around $3 million.
The big item really was the churn of the old Qwest center where we had some very large customers who were peer colo customers some very large that we know the names but I won’t call it.
But who took their business to their internal data centers.
They had very large both had huge amount of data out there.
So that’s the bigger they worked in any cloud and managed services for almost peer colos.
So that’s where a lot of the churn that came from plus we had a bankruptcy of Kodak impacted us for about $3 million.
So it was a combination of things in the quarter.
We do expect to turn that growth around.
I’m confident that that we can drive growth.
In the hosting business we are seeing significant success in our cost selling efforts.
We changed our go-to market with our network customers are seeing really strong demand.
Our sales as we’ve talked about continued strong and into the fourth quarter.
For the last three quarters it will get strong.
Bookings -- data hosting assets are really important for our future growth.
They support analyst of course industry analyst regarding trends trends toward RTL outsourcing.
We believe those are real.
We’ve some work to do.
We are making some changes in some of our go-to market work and are focused on certain verticals.
And so strategically these are very important assets for us and we see this is where the marketplace is going over time and I’m confident we can grow this business.
I will let Jeff make a few comments on this year.
Sure.
David Jeff Von Deylen.
As we went during the quarter kind of expected Q3 would be flat to Q2.
In Q2 there was some non-recurring revenue.
But anyway we got surprised by the $5 million.
I think Glen talked about that.
From a new sales perspective we were in line with new sales really – we had the same level of new sales in Q3 as we did in Q2.
And as Glen mentioned probably the biggest success we're having is selling into some of the CenturyLink network customers who do hosting today so they're not part of that Legacy Qwest hosting base but they're buying the new products.
So we really think the combination of some of these one-time items are getting behind us after the third quarter.
It's why we think the 2.5% to 3% total hosting growth is reasonable.
And that's the result of the sales.
I will say the quarter's impact has also negatively impacted our network our other network as we call it or the wide area.
The VPN network was negative year-over-year.
If you sort of take that out and just focus on the hosting revenue kind of year-over-year without the credits we're about 8.6% growth.
So a little better than kind of that reported 4% but – and we feel like going forward some of these one-time credits are out of the way and we're poised to grow sequentially.
On the question on the goodwill write-down and sort of how we think about that.
Stewart do you want to take that one on the future growth rate?  So in terms of the goodwill David we – just basically of our past performance we decided we needed to take down the just from an accounting standpoint take down the assumed growth rates that we're using going forward for purposes of calculating the value of the business and comparing that with the amount that just flows and just decided that we needed to go ahead and write it down.
I mean we certainly believe as Glen pointed out in the value of this business going forward we believe that we can get the growth rates that will – and if you look at market comps basically there's more value there than we wrote it down to really.
So we're comfortable with that.
I think we're conservative in the write-down and we're conservative in the projections that we used to calculate that.
Your question concerning the revenue guidance and it feels like we're getting – finding some level of flattening revenue curve.
So basically yes we are continuing to get towards and move towards flat revenue.
It's a little slower than we thought it would be a few quarters ago.
And that's why we said last quarter we didn't think we'd get a flat revenue in '14.
But basically it's dependent on the continued growth and strategic revenue.
The data hosting business is a big part of that.
IPTV revenue and success there that we're seeing is a big part of that.
And continued success in our business sector with the MPLS revenue that we're driving there and the new customer growth we're driving there we're having some really good success there.
And if we can bring the success that we're seeing in the large customer segment large enterprise customer segment down to the small and mid-sized segments will help us to get there quicker.
The other place is basically just our high speed Internet.
We need to continue to do well from the standpoint of adding customers and hopefully increasing rates a little bit over time as we were able to do in the third quarter.
Okay.
And just a follow-up quick when you're looking for the data 2% to 3% growth is that year-over-year or sequential? Sequential.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Could you dig a little bit more into the broadband numbers? You have very nice snap back.
Obviously some of that was seasonality.
But did you change or go to market with that driven by promotions.
Is this also a level that we think is sustainable over the next couple of quarters? And capital intensity continues to move up into the mid to high teens.
As the fiber-to-the-tower build slows when do you think we'll sort of see a peak in that capital intensity or are we seeing it right now or we are going to maintain it for another year or so? Thanks.
Hi.
This is Karen Puckett.
In terms of the broadband bounce back we are pleased about that obviously.
I would say no new go-to-market.
We continue to execute and we do this well and so the seasonality helped.
Also we were able to overcome the indirect partner we spoke about last time with some digital partners that we had helping them increase their business and our call center channel performed very well as well as it’s getting very focused on our go-to-market in terms of our prospect leads and making sure that those are all optimized.
So the things that we normally do we continue to do well and have a good quarter from that.
Yeah.
Simon regarding the capital budged.
We expect CapEx -- even though we do expect on the top of the tower spend to go down.
We believe we will -- our budget will stay in the range in the $3 billion range that we are talking about.
It can be a little plus or minus either side of that but that’s the range we expect it to be and because video uptick we think we have a broadband expansion driving additional revenue opportunities.
Also one of its success based yeah third of our about a third of our budget will be success based capital.
So we continue to be successful in even at NPLS working and the Savvis sales data center expansion and a lot of that will be success based.
So we expect to be in this range in this $3 billion range we expect for 2014.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Great.
Thanks.
First a follow up question on the data hosting business.
I think couple of months ago you had mentioned that we will see some pick up in churn in the first quarter of ’14 would the churn that we saw in the quarter was that pulled forward or do you expect another pick up in churns in the beginning of the year? And the second question is on the business revenues we saw some slight improvements year-over-year growth in that business? Do you expect that to continue? Thanks.
It’s Jeff.
Regarding to churn the $2 million that we referenced on legacy Qwest that was a surprise so that was sort of over and above what we had forecasted so and we don’t have kind of current view of Q1 -- Q4 Q1 any more large churn any higher than kind of where we currently run so that $2 million that we reference we are going to reference in this quarter was over and above what we expected.
But then as we go forward to Q4 Q1 we sort of expect to have sort of that a normal level of up churn which we currently run in the 1.3% to 1.5% of revenue.
And Batya on the business revenue growth I mean we do hope to continue to improve our business revenue growth somewhere in the third quarter related to some price increases that we did but small amount of it.
But we are again seeing good success on the large multi-node NPLs networks and strategic data revenue growth that we are seeing in our business sector.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Scott Goldman from Goldman Sachs.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
I guess I want to follow up on David’s question earlier and just looking at the 4Q guide that you’ve laid out for really from both revenue and for EBITDA if you kind of look where you came in 3Q fairly close to the mid-point of your guide there but which is though you are bringing down full year guide by about 50 million or so at the mid-point for both revenue and EBITDA if we take your 4Q numbers there.
So I am wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the puts and takes that we should be thinking about I know you highlighted CPE? But anything else we should be thinking about Stewart as we go forward on that? And then secondly obviously seeing good results on Prism IPTV and market expansion and the quality churn implications in HFI tax rates as you get there? Just wondering how you think about the opportunity to maybe accelerate that either within adjusting CapEx budget or even a willingness to move CapEx little bit higher just given the benefits of that product? Yeah.
So Scott in terms of fourth quarter guidance I mean considering the guidance that we have for full year and the performance in the third quarter and our guidance that we gave in fourth quarter we will probably be somewhere around the midpoint to the lower end of the guidance that we gave for revenue and operating cash flow for the full year.
So yes to the midpoint or slightly below.
We feel good about that.
There are some – we do expect an increase in our CPE sales in the fourth quarter and the associated costs with that since that’s a low margin product.
In terms of Prism – Yes just to talk about Prism we build out in markets where we are we sell and other phases going in Phoenix and Colorado Springs as well as Omaha and other areas we are building it and you build out in those markets.
As we continue to see success as the growth continues we will consider expanding to other markets that will be part of our 2014 budget processes.
We are in a process of going through now and we will be considering those expansion as far as increasing the budget – we don’t expect significant increases in the budget capital budget to build out Prism release in 2014.
But that is an opportunity for us as we look – we continue to see success here it’s an opportunity to really consider acceleration to build-out in the months and years ahead.
Just one follow up to the guidance.
Anything we should be thinking about in terms of the new union contract how that layers in in 4Q and into 2014 that would impact – benefit you on the EBITDA side come 4Q? Yes not much impact in the fourth quarter.
We should see some margin [ph] little bit in the first quarter and full year 2014.
And our next question comes from Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Thanks guys.
Two questions.
Where do you think your pricing is on the datacenter side versus market and versus legacy are you seeing kind of much over-build in the markets that you are in or is it more just the internet companies connecting their own facilities? And then secondly on the GPON strategy could you maybe just give a little bit more detail on how it compares and contracts to what kind of Verizon and FIOS and maybe a little bit of color on the cost structure and it seems like a very large opportunity and I know Omaha you had lost a lot of market share historically maybe if you can give some color on what kind of update you are getting out there? Sure.
First of all on the data center side specifically it relates to colocation I think our lighter fee base certainly any pricing over the last few years has probably declined in 15% range.
So some of those clients that are coming up for renewal and just pure colocation we have to – we see that in price erosion.
You are right that the larger bigger content kind of guys that build around data centers and look at choices of where to put their environment and we’ve had that certainly in our numbers negatively impacted.
I will say there are probably couple markets that we think may be more competitive or price competitive than one in terms of DC Santa Clara and Dallas but those are markets that we are – it’s good news that we are pretty well distributed and where we are adding footprint is probably away from those markets where we see some of the wholesalers and other demand going.
So yes the last point is we’re really trying to take advantage of the better base of customers who – Karen really has a [indiscernible] and our abilities to data center and even colocation racks and bubbles to those customers that they have never had that offer before when you take that – it really helps us kind of de-emphasize some of the larger one megawatt and above kind of deal to really have enterprise smaller opportunities.
And Tim Karen on the GPON question yes I would say in terms of just Omaha if you think about that we had fiber deployed in that core of the network.
So it made sense to put GPON in what we are cutting to do here is really understand the market with the GPON message take rate and such as well as hardening our process somewhat of a new process for our systems and our organization.
I will tell you that we are very pleased we have not pitched even hard on the soft launch Omaha very pleased with the result both from a consumer and business standpoint.
So encouraged in every operating metric.
The biggest we have some fiber to the curb technology.
So we have the fiber and we decided to use the most recent GPON capability to enable that again to try to further harden our process and the legacy ceasefire in terms of those systems and processes.
Our focus is very targeted in terms of going after the high addressable market and consumer so they’re premium kind of customers but very focused on the business side too and you will hear more of that in the coming quarters as our focus on GPON with business.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question for today comes from Michael Rollins from Citi.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what’s going on in the cost base and especially relative to revenue.
So it seems like the segments that ruined in the quarter when -- let me phrase it year-over-year they grew like the business segment data hosting segment.
That’s where you actually saw segment income decline year-over-year.
And in aggregate if you just look at the -- just the segment income or even take it to the larger consolidated EBITDA level it looks like EBITDA was down and more than a dollar year-over-year for every dollar of revenue losses.
Stewart if you can talk to us about how to think about the change in revenue relative to change in the EBITDA whether it can actually get better over time if there any specific issues that were impacting this quarter more so than usual? Thanks.
Yes Mike.
So what you are saying is a combination of really two major things that are going on.
One we are cycling through or have pretty much cycled through the synergies related to Qwest.
So we are not seeing the offsets to expense increases that we have been having really all along related to how network services really and charges related to business customer grow.
And some of that was offset in the past related to synergies that we were achieving from Qwest.
Also secondly in the third quarter we do have some seasonality from a cost standpoint.
So we got a chance to do maintenance on our networks and things like that.
So that really drives our cost down some in our power cost to higher in the third quarter simply because of the heat and the cooling required and things like that.
The other is that basically we have new initiatives where we are rolling out new products and their cost associated with that really that aren’t really -- there's not a lot of revenue benefit there in the early stages in rolling out new products.
So I think that you are seeing some of that too.
We should -- we would expect for other than the Qwest synergies for the other expenses to be more in line with the revenue growth in the future though.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you Saeed.
Please turn to Slide 21 as we close today’s call.
Overall we are well pleased with our results for the third quarter.
We believe our continued investments in key strategic opportunities will help us drive revenue growth and strong financial results over time.
We are seeing strong demand from business customers for our advanced network and hosting IT solutions.
And we are seeing -- also seeing improved sales success to increase collaboration among our business and data hosting sales leaders around the joint development of targeted innovative solutions.
Our new bundled offers have positioned us to capture additional spend in the IT services space from our customers portfolios.
For example our managed office product is a simple fully managed bundle solution.
It’s created specifically for our small and commercial businesses and integrated all elements on our communications network managed data hosted managed voice and managed applications.
We believe these types of products and bundles that we are developing can be very effective in driving future revenue streams and make -- develop a lot of customers loyalty.
Overall we believe we are well positioned to effectively compete and drive revenue growth from our strategic products and services in the months and years ahead.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink’s First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's first quarter 2014 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Now turning to slide 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for second quarter 2014 and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in these forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on our earnings release and on our website at ir.centurylink.com.
Now turning to slide 3.
Your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer and also available during the question-and-answer portion of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of Wholesale Operations; and Jeff Von Deylen President of CenturyLink Technology Solutions formally Savvis.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through May 14 2014 and the webcast replay through May 29 2014.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of May 07 2014 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
Now as we move to slide 4 I’ll turn the call over to Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that CenturyLink achieved strong financial and operating performance for the first quarter and we continued effectively execute against our objectives and make investments that we believe will drive an improved trend and profitable growth overtime.
Now turning to slide 5 we achieved total operating revenues operating cash flow and adjusted diluted earnings per share that all exceeded our guidance for the quarter.
For the first quarter of 2014 total operating revenues of $4.54 billion increased by $25 million compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This revenue growth was significant improvement from the 2.1% decline in year-over-year revenues in the first quarter 2013 and 2.7% decline in year-over-year revenues in the first quarter of 2012.
Data integration revenues were approximately $35 million higher in the first quarter of 2014 than in the first quarter 2013 primarily due to increased CPE or customer premise equipment sales.
Core revenue for the quarter which represents strategic and legacy revenues combined was $4.11 billion and was nearly flat from the year ago period reflecting the commitment and dedication of our employees to meet the needs of our customers.
This compares and also represents a significant improvement from the 2% and 3% declines in year-over-year core revenues in the first quarter of 2013 and 2012 respectively.
As anticipated our wholesale segment revenues continue to be negatively impacted by the lower access revenues due to the implementation of lower access rates under the CAF Order and the declining [voice] minutes of use.
Excluding our wholesale segment our core revenue grew approximately 1.2% or $38 million compared to the first quarter 2013.
This compares to a decline of 0.9% or $28 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Now continuing to slide 6 I would like to highlight the key drivers this continued strong improvement in our revenue trend improvement in call revenues are driven by the combination of improved rate of growth and strategic revenue and the lower rate of decline in legacy revenue.
Business call revenue grew sequentially and year-over-year driven by business demand for high bandwidth data services in our bundled service offerings combining network CP software applications and managed services.
We also continued to see good growth in Ethernet services from our fiber-to-the-tower investments and our wholesale business that need to grow data backhaul needs of wireless carries.
Managed hosting revenue including cloud grew nearly 13% year-over-year while co-location revenue grew 3.3% resulting in total hosting revenue growth of 6% compared to the first quarter 2013.
Additionally if you look at our combined business and hosting segment revenues we achieved year-over-year revenue growth for the last seven quarters.
Consumer revenue grew sequentially and was nearly flat year-over-year fueled by continued strength in high speed internet and Prism TV customer growth price increases and improved churn.
If you turn to slide seven we’re excited about the market opportunities that lie ahead for CenturyLink.
Our employees have worked hard to successfully integrate several major acquisitions over the last few years and we believe we are now well positioned as an industry leader capable of completing more effectively and winning in the marketplace.
Over the last couple of years we have consistently talked about our focus on broadband enhancement present TV expansion fiber-to-the-tower and managed hosting and cloud services.
As we continue to transform our company from a provider of traditional network communications to an integrated provider of IP enhanced network cloud hosting and IT services we are refining our focus and executing on several strategic priorities.
These strategic priorities are first business network solutions hosting cloud and IT services consumer broadband and video and operating efficiency.
We believe executing on these strategic priorities are key to our navigating to this transformation successfully in 2014 and beyond to drive long term profitable growth and value for our shareholders.
Now moving to slide 8 I’ll provide little more color on each of these priorities before I turn the call over to Stewart.
Over the last several years we have made significant investments in our abilities to provide network and hosting service to our business customers.
And we are now in a position where more than 60% of our revenues come from business and customers -- business customers across our business hosting and wholesale segments.
But more important than diversification alone we are also seeing strong pull-through effects of being able to provide business customers with a suite of network cloud hosting colocation and IT services.
More and more our customers are asking for integrated communications and IT solutions and we believe we have the strategic asset to provide these services.
With respect to business network solutions we expect to continue to focus on driving growth and in high-bandwidth data services including MPLS Ethernet Wavelength and voice-over-IP by providing reliable secure connectivity to meet the growing bandwidth needs of our business customers and wireless carrier customers.
Now we believe our targeted marketing approach sales programs and the continued expansion of our sales team as well as continued enhancements in our product portfolio continue to position us to drive revenue growth.
For example we're seeing strong early sales results associated with our recent launch of Managed Office a solution that integrates network VoIP email and other key business applications.
And we believe we have good opportunity to grow our business customer base with these services.
We also expect to continue to expand our GPON and fiber deployment to commercial buildings providing expanded addressable market opportunities for our business sales team and offer fast Ethernet quality speeds to our customers allowing them to cloud enable their businesses.
Similarly although slowing somewhat from the level of last few years we will continue our fiber deployment to wireless towers to capture the growing demand for wireless carriers -- from wireless carriers for wireless data backhaul.
With respect to our cloud and hosting business we believe we have the right assets to meet the growing needs for cloud hosting and colocation services we're seeing from businesses ranging from smaller to global in scale.
These assets coupled with our robust network capabilities enable our sales teams to build integrated hosting and network solutions that not only meet the cloud’s needs but also lower the total cost of ownership and better enable our customers to focus on their core businesses.
We will continue to enhance our hosting cloud service platform and expect to have deployed our advanced CenturyLink cloud node to six of our datacenters by year-end which along with the Tier 3 cloud nodes operating in nine data centers at the time of acquisition will bring us to 15 advanced notes by year-end.
We are further enhancing our ability to compete in the growth of hosting services of our building and leveraging our deep knowledge base on offer mid to large enterprise customers and complete portfolio of IT and cloud enablement services.
While there are clearly strong competitors in the public cloud services space we believe we are well positioned to compete in the hybrid cloud market as we offer the full range of network cloud managed hosting colocation and IT services that we believe our customers want.
In the consumer segment we believe we continue to see good results in those markets where we have deployed higher bandwidth and IPTV services.
For example in the last six months since our limited gigabit service deployment in Omaha.
The results and take it to exceed our expectations in the consumer market and we have seen good pool in the mid-smaller and medium business space as well.
We expect to continue to invest in our high speed Internet and Prism TV capabilities with plans to continue to push fiber deeper into our network and add approximately 300 000 Prism TV addressable homes in 2014.
We continue to monitor the access of Prism TV in our current markets and will consider further market expansion in the months here.
We'll of course get careful consideration of the operating cash flow impact of any new market losses.
Finally we are focused on driving improved operating efficiency through network its simplification and rationalization that should improve our NDN provisioning time and help drive standardization throughout our company.
Additionally we are focused on process automation improvements through applications and work tools that drive lower operating costs and improve sales efficiency.
Overall I'm pleased with the strong results for the quarter we remained focused across all operating segments of offering our customers high value product and service solutions along with a high quality customer experience that drives loyalty and improves customer retention and we continue to invest to drive growth in our business.
With that I'll turn the call over to Stew for in-depth look at our financial results and second quarter guidance.
Stew? Thank you Glen.
I’ll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the first quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the second quarter 2014 guidance.
We included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on slide 10 I’d like to review some of the highlights from our strong first quarter results.
I’ll be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
As Glen mentioned earlier we generated solid operating revenues and cash flows in the quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.54 billion on a consolidated basis a six tenth of 1% increase from first quarter 2013 operating revenues.
Core revenue which we defined as our strategic revenue plus our legacy revenue was $4.11 billion for the first quarter nearly flat from the year ago period.
Our strategic revenues grew 5.4% year over year and now represent 50% of our total revenues compared to 48% a year ago.
Strength in strategic products such as high speed internet high bandwidth data services Prism TV and managed hosting services continues to drive this growth.
Additionally customer growth was strong in the first quarter.
We added approximately 66 000 high-speed internet customers and 24 000 Prism TV customers during the quarter.
In line with our prior experience we expect HSI net ads to be seasonally weak in the second quarter as certain of our markets will experience increased disconnects from snowbirds and college students.
Despite this we do continue to expect positive HSI customer additions in the back half of the year.
We generated strong consolidated operating cash flow of approximately $1.79 billion for the first quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 39.4%.
The year-over-year decline in operating cash flow and operating cash flow margin was primarily driven by higher CPE sales and maintenance costs employee related expenses facility costs weather related power costs and expenses related to the growth of Prism TV.
Also contributing to the year-over-year decreases was the impact of certain one-time favorable expense reductions experienced during first quarter of 2013 which resulted in higher operating margins in the year ago period and the continued decline in legacy revenues.
Additionally we generated $860 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
We expect our dividend payout ratio for full year 2014 to be approximately 45%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the first quarter were $0.66 well ahead of the $0.61 midpoint of our guidance.
As we’ve discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes certain special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
We continue to make solid progress under our $2 billion stock repurchase program authorized by our Board in mid February 2013.
During the first we repurchased 10.4 million shares with an investment of $319 million.
From the inception of the program in February a year ago through May 6th of this year we have almost completed the $2 billion program and we purchased the total of $58.7 million for $1.97 million which reduced our aggregate annual dividend requirement by more than $125 million annually.
We expect to complete the remainder of the current $2 billion stock repurchase program in the second quarter well ahead of the original two year timeframe.
And as announced in February our Board approved $1 billion follow-on stock repurchase authorization which will commence upon completion of our current program.
Now turning to slide 11 the six-tenths of a percent increase in first quarter 2014 operating revenue as compared to first quarter of 2013 was primarily a result of growth in strategic and data integration revenues that was partially offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
The growth in our strategic revenue is primarily driven by strength in high speed internet our bandwidth business data services Prism TV and hosting services.
Although legacy revenues continued to decline the decline in first quarter 2014 was approximately 30% lower than the first quarter a year ago.
Data integration revenues were higher year-over-year due to increased CPE sales.
Now turning to slide 12 I will discuss each of our operating segments beginning first with the consumer segment.
Consumer generated nearly $1.51 billion in operating revenues which was nearly flat with first quarter 2013.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 8.8% year-over-year to $702 million driven by growth in high speed internet Prism customers price increases and the improved turn.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 6.7% from first quarter a year ago as access line and long distance revenues continued to decline.
The comparable year-over-year decline in first quarter 2013 was 9.7% so a three percentage point improvement in the rate of decline in legacy revenues period-to-period.
Operating expenses increased 6.2% compared to the same period a year ago primarily driven by higher Prism TV cost.
Moving to slide 13 our business segment generated $1.56 billion in operating revenues during the first quarter which increased $54 million or 3.6% from the same period a year ago; first quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased by 6.7% to $655 million from first quarter 2013 driven primarily by strength and high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
We continue to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer market and we see an opportunity for further investment in the small and medium size business space to improve our market share and drive further growth.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 2.9% from first quarter a year ago due primarily to a continuing decline in access lines.
Our data integration revenues grew 25% in first quarter 2014 compared to first quarter 2013 driven by higher CPE sales.
Total business segment expense increased 12.7% primarily driven by the higher CPE cost associated with those sales and facility cost associated with MPLS product growth along with higher employee-related expenses.
The segment margin of 38% declined from 43.1% a year ago.
This decrease was primarily due to the higher cost I just mentioned above along with the impact of certain favorable one-time expenses experienced in first quarter 2013 and the continued decline in business segment legacy revenue.
If look at our sequential segment decline from the fourth quarter of last year it's fairly in significant.
Wholesale; now turning to slide 14 our wholesale segment generated $862 million in operating revenues a decrease of 4.9% from first quarter 2013.
Strategic revenues for wholesale were $570 million nearly flat with first quarter 2013 as growth in Ethernet services wireless bandwidth expansion was offset by DS1 disconnect.
Legacy revenues declined by 12.8% to $292 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long distance minutes of use and the implementation of lower access rates under the CAF Order.
Operating expenses for the quarter in the wholesale segment were approximately flat compared to the same period a year ago.
Now moving to slide 15 in our hosting segment which includes all managed hosting cloud services co-location and hosting-related network services revenues.
Before getting into the numbers I want to note two changes in reporting for this segment that we implemented this quarter and have been retroactively applied through the first quarter of 2012.
The first changes in hosting revenue by product category has been restated to allocate cross connect revenue with the associated co-location or managed services which is more aligned with industry period reporting.
The second change is that hosting expenses have been revised to remove certain administrative expenses in order to confirm our hosting segment reporting to that of our other operating segments.
This segment generated $354 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 6% from first quarter 2013.
Year-over-year managed hosting revenues including cloud grew 12.7% while colocation grow of 3.3% was impacted by customer churn and price erosion.
Hosting operating expenses increased 10.5% primarily due to higher employee cost partially related to AppFog and Tier 3 acquisitions and one time higher weather related power cost.
Over time we expect long-term improvement in both revenue and margin trends across the hosting segment and continue to leverage these assets to drive additional revenue through cross selling opportunities in our other segments.
Now turning to slide 16 and our second quarter 2014 guidance.
For the second quarter of 2014 we project total operating revenues of $4.48 billion to $4.53 billion core revenues of $4.07 billion to $4.12 billion and operating cash flow between $1.75 billion and $1.8 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.62 to $0.67.
We expect second quarter 2014 operating revenues and operating cash flow to be impacted by lower data integration revenue and the continued decline of our legacy revenue.
Our full year 2014 guidance remains unchanged from that provided on our February earnings call.
That concludes our prepared remarks for the day.
So at this time I’ll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from Phil Cusick from J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
A couple of things I guess.
First as you look at the buyback you’ve got some left to go in the original and then the next billion kicks in.
Given one or sort of moving on to the next segment and second of the shares of rebound quite a bit do you think that the pace of buyback slows if not in 2Q than beyond that? Thanks.
First of all I’ll let Stewart to answer later but as far as the pace it depends on a lot of things and the stock price whatever the stock price and depends on other alternatives because we’re committed to drive dividend.
We think it’s well protected by our free cash flow.
We look at other opportunities debt reduction.
But right now we expect to continue to complete the -- that $1 billion stock buyback in the timeframe we’ve talked about.
We know the pace may not be quite as fast.
Stewart do you want to add.
Glen I think you answered it as of stock price increases we spend less and of course bought your shares.
And then if I can one on the business you mentioned that colocation churn price erosion is being a headwind to revenue.
Was there anything notable there or new or is that just the business running the way it typically does? We had a couple of large businesses that were pure colo companies.
We’ve actually been especially in the elected Qwest data center so that was the biggest impact.
I’ll let Jeff address.
Yes.
And that’s right Glen there was a couple of customers kind of large Internet companies but we did have higher churn in Q1 we have one customer in the kind of same range for Q2 that will put some pressure.
I would say that the Q1impact just of that to us from a revenue standpoint is about $10 million annual so it was -- and that was just three customers so those three were pretty big impact to us.
So there are some headwinds into near term growth.
We are obviously focused on fill rates and filling those customers and the good news couple of customers had very aggressive rates.
So as we sell more to the enterprise we think our yield and margins are going to be in good shape.
Got it thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
And please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
I wonder if you could expand a little bit on the operating efficiency actions; what is sort of the timing on that and anything you can do in terms of sizing it? And then I think there was a comment in the release around some delays and some fiber to the tower build by some of the carriers into ‘15 can you just expand on that as well please? Simon so the delays in the fiber to tower builds were really just by customer pushing certain towers that they had initially expected for us to build fiber to in 2014 and they delayed that out into 2015.
So we think they will ultimately get built by us but it’s just a matter of timing.
They decided they wanted to spend capital elsewhere this year.
In terms of the operating efficiency actions -- I mean if you look at our guidance for the full year our operating cash flow margins would be about 9.7% at the mid-point of the guidance.
So we really need to keep expenses somewhat flat between now and the end of the year to hit the mid-point of the guidance.
And there are just a number of different programs that we are looking at to take cost out of the business as we change our processes and get more efficient.
I know Karen has on the sales side a lot of work being done to make our sales people more efficient to make our back office people or sales support people more effective.
So I think just this some of these programs mature over the next couple of years.
We will be able to take some cost out.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Can you talk a little bit about the trends you are seeing in the business segment.
I think you mentioned the sales pipeline is strong for the second quarter.
How should we think about the business driving growth for the remainder of the year? Also I believe CPE revenues were higher than expected in the quarter.
Can you talk about what drove that and was that a positive breakthrough for network services for the remainder of the year? Thank you.
Yes.
So I will address the CPE sale.
I think Karen is going to address the first question.
CPE sales were really a sale that we expected to book in the second quarter.
In our original guidance that we provided and it just got pulled forward into the first quarter.
That was the primary item and then we had a large enterprise customer that we had a CPE sales to them in the first quarter as well.
So that really drove -- and there will not be really much MRR pull through with us to sales.
I mean we have MRR associated with the large customer which was a tech refresh that we did.
Their MRR will not change but we just basically refreshed all of their equipment.
The other customer is more of a one-time CPE sale but there is some network associated with that but it wouldn’t be that significant.
This is Karen.
In terms of the overall just business segment we have a strong [funnel] obviously going into the second quarter with strong MPLS Ethernet growth has been and continues to be the story the team has done an extraordinary job of executing on that and really taking from competition.
And then you come over kind of commercial mid-markets the managed office as well as the business GPON as we get into they are kicking and make it different as well as the efficiency that you had talked about making our reps giving it back more time for selling.
So we're very encouraged about the year in front of us.
I might just add to that this is Glen.
In spite of a difficult economy they continue or our solutions our go-to-market solutions-based approach we think is really accepted well by our customers.
We are very pleased with the growth we're seeing our solutions-based approach MPLS and Ethernet we're seeing crossover selling cloud hosting into the network customer base managed service is driving a lot of interest from customers as well.
So we are very pleased with the response we're seeing throughout our marketing efforts and sales efforts in the business segment.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Your lines open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Congrats on a good quarter.
I guess two questions if I could just kind of looking at the segments; consumer flat business growing hosting growing sorry this builds there but it kind of looks like wholesale really is the piece that we're trying to manage and the piece that’s declining there is kind of that last $292 million of it.
Could you kind of talk just about how that wholesale will trend over the course of the year because obviously we're not going to have that carrier comp production like we did for the last two years.
So expect it should kind of smooth out and that will get us to that stronger end of the revenue guide for the year? And then the second question I had was we have the SEC finished their modeling process on the Connect America Fund and it's going to mean big things I think for the sector.
Maybe starting next year could you talk a little bit about what the model changes mean to CenturyLink and how you think you will kind of be dealing with these forces as they change over the course of this year and next? Thanks.
David unfortunately Bill is here to hear you.
We’ll let him address that.
David you are right it has been a challenge on the legacy revenue as that phasing down that has really been a challenge for us.
We had a number of issues that head us this year when you compare back to ‘13 first quarter we had some one-time items we of course had the ICC rate changes Intercare comp rate changes.
They are flattening out as you said but we still have a phase down that's coming as we continue to phase that down to effectively zero overtime on the terminating side.
The good news there is we do have an offset with some access recovery charges on the retail side that we pick-up some of those ICC pay down cost.
So it's more of a phase from wholesale over the retail.
And then of course our LDE volumes and access volumes have in fact declined.
We do expect they will start to mitigate somewhat but minutes of use obviously will continue to climb along with access line loss and wireless substitution internet substitution only 800 business.
And the UNI business for us has been flat and that's in legacy so the -- while they are not gaining traction not gaining share they are not going away at a very rapid rate but they are declining slightly.
And David on the third part of your question on the CAF2 as you know the SEC has decided to modify the CAF2 proposal as initiated in those rulemaking.
This will involve a several rounds of SEC comments and industry discussion over the next 90 days or so.
So there is a lot of work to do here.
And one of the key changes that they’re proposing is the requirement increased development deployments from 4 megabits to 10 megabits; we’ll see how that discussion goes.
Once we have more time to address the no proposed rulemaking and discussed issues with the SEC and industry we’ll be able to provide more guidance on this issue.
But previously we have -- our projections range from $470 million to $500 million of support annually.
We could paying from CAF2 right now we don’t know what that will be based on the latest changes.
But we do think it’s important that if we move to the higher bandwidth there is enough support there to justify to make it practical for us to provide that level of service.
Got it.
And David on the strategic revenue side on wholesale I think important to note we were only down $1 million $571 million a year ago $570 million in the first quarter of this year which really is a reflection of the fiber-to-the-tower bills that we’ve done over the last two or three years and the Ethernet and growing bandwidth that we’re having experiencing with those customers and it’s offsetting the disconnects of the DS1 and DS3 that we’re seeing that are also included in that strategic revenue line.
David this is Bill again.
I just want to add we are very encouraged by the bandwidth growth we’re starting to see.
If you look at over the last really six months or so we’ve seen a 4% migration up bandwidth and over the last 12 months that’s up to 6% certain carriers are over 8%.
So we’re starting to see some improvement in that trend and just recently we got a really large order for a number of upgrades from one of the major carriers.
So think that that will continue.
Great.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
And our final question for today comes from (inaudible) Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks very much.
I wanted to ask on the cash flow items outside of the definition on for cash flow.
Last year there was a pretty big use of cash it was about $340 million for retirement benefit but I noticed that and in the first quarter it’s really down a lot year-over-year it’s looks like it’s only [28] use of cash versus 178 in the prior year period.
So wanted an estimate of what you think that is going to be in terms of the use of cash for this year? So I may need to get back with you on an estimate for the year but it’s really our pension contribution that we made last year.
I think our pension contribution was in the neighborhood $300 million or so; pension contribution this year will be less than that about $125 million range.
Okay and then any other items that we should be cognizant of that are outside of the company to find free cash flow definition in terms of expectations for working capital used are any remaining integration expenditures or anything like that? No not really.
In the first quarter we did make the payment on the litigation that Qwest had KPNQwest litigation which if I recall was about $235 million it was fully accrued.
But that was a cash payment that we made in the first quarter.
Okay and then on the uses of free cash flow outside of the dividend it did sound like in the prior question that you may slow the pace of buybacks with the stronger stock price.
So I am wondering what the other uses of the free cash flow would be.
And I did note that looks like you had another small revolver draw and that revolver is probably around 750 so buying additional share buybacks; would you look to pay that debt down?  Yes.
We’ll just have to see where the stock price goes and the really the level at which we repurchase shares and go from there but our debt level at the end of first quarter was essentially flat with where we were at the end of ‘13.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you Saeed.
Overall we are very pleased with our strong first quarter results and both operating and financial and especially the continued improvement in our revenue trend.
We believe investments we are making in our business continue to position us to effectively compete in a marketplace and drive revenue growth from our strategic products and services in the months ahead.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in a week I guess.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's second quarter 2014 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for question-and-answers.
Now turning to slide 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for third quarter 2014 and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our web site at ir.centurylink.com.
Now turning to slide 3; your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer and also available during the question-and-answer portion of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of Wholesale Operations; and Jeff Von Deylen President of CenturyLink Technology Solutions.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through August 14 2014 and the web cast replay of our call would be available through August 28 2014.
Anyone listening to a taped or web cast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of August 6 2014 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to slide 4 I'll turn the call over to Glen Post.
Glen? III</strong> Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I am pleased with our strong financial performance for the second quarter and we continue to effectively execute against our objectives and make investments that we believe will drive increased revenues.
If you'll turn to slide 5 we achieved total operating revenue operating cash flow and adjusted diluted earnings per share all exceeded our guidance for the quarter.
Our second quarter 2014 total operating revenues are $4.54 billion increased by $16 million compared to the second quarter of 2013.
This 0.4% revenue growth for the business is a significant improvement from the 1.9% decline in year-over-year revenues in the second quarter 2013 and 1.2% decline in pro forma year-over-year revenues in the second quarter 2012.
Data integration revenue is $20 million higher in the second quarter 2014 and in the second quarter 2013 primarily due to increased CPE or customer premise equipment sales.
Core revenue which represents strategic and legacy revenues combined were $4.1 billion for the quarter and was nearly flat from the year ago period.
This comparison also represents a significant improvement from the 1.6% and 2.2% declines in year-over-year core revenues in second quarter 2013 and 2012 respectively.
Now continuing to slide 6 I'd like to highlight the key drivers for this continued strong improvement on our revenue trend.
The improvement in core revenues was driven by the combination of improved rate of growth in strategic revenue and lower rate of decline in legacy revenue.
Business at core revenue grew sequentially and year-over-year driven by business demand for high bandwidth data services and our bundled service offerings combining network CPE software applications and managed services.
We also continue to see good growth in Ethernet services from our fiber-to-the-tower investments in our wholesale business as we meet the growing data transport needs of wireless carriers.
However wholesale revenue growth continues to be impacted by the migration of low speed data services to fiber-based Ethernet as well as increased network grooming by wireless carriers.
Managed hosting revenue including cloud were 9.6% year-over-year while collocation revenue grew approximately 2% resulting in total hosting revenue growth of 3.2% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Additionally if you look at our combined business and hosting segment revenues we have achieved year-over-year revenue growth for the last eight quarters.
Consumer revenue grew year-over-year fueled by continued strength in high speed internet and Prism TV customer growth price increases and improved churn.
Now turning to slide 7 we continue to transform our company from a provider of traditional network communications to an integrated provider of IP-enabled network cloud hosting and IT services and we are refining our focus and executing on several strategic priorities.
We believe these priorities are key to successfully navigating the continued transformation of our company and driving long term profitable growth and value for our shareholders.
Now the first of these is to grow business network solutions.
We expect to continue to focus on driving growth from high bandwidth data services including MPLS Ethernet Wavelength and voice-over-IP or VoIP services by providing reliable connectivity to meet the growing bandwidth needs of our business customers.
In the second quarter we experienced continuous strength in sales for high bandwidth data services.
Also as announced yesterday we are expanding gigabit service to business customers in select locations in 16 cities through our fiber network providing symmetrical broadband speeds up to 1 gigabit.
This expansion provides an increased addressable market opportunity for our business sales teams and ultra fast Ethernet quality speeds to our customers live into cloud-enablement of their businesses.
We also believe our targeted marketing approach sales programs and continued expansion of our sales team as well as continued enhancement of our product portfolio positions us well to drive revenue growth.
For example we are seeing continued strong sales results associated with our launch of Managed Office a solution that integrates network voice-over-IP email and other key business applications for our business customers.
And although slowing somewhat from the levels of last years we continued our fiber deployment to wireless towers to capture the growing demand from wireless carriers or data backhaul.
During the second quarter we completed fiber to 500 towers for a total of near 19 700 total fiber builds.
With respect to our cloud and hosting business we believe we have the right assets to meet the growing demand for cloud hosting and collocation services we achieved from businesses ranging from small to global in scale.
These assets coupled with our robust network capabilities enable our sales teams to build integrated hosting and network solutions that meet the customers' needs and lower their operating costs while better enabling them to focus on our core businesses.
We continue to enhance our hosting and cloud services platform during the second quarter with the launch of our Advanced CenturyLink Cloud technology to our Toronto data center bringing our total 12 nodes with the new technology.
Additionally interest eh second quarter we opened a new data center in Minneapolis offering collocation cloud and managed hosting services connected to CenturyLink's IP backbone and global data center footprint.
We are further enhancing our ability to compete in the growth of hosting services of building and leveraging our broad IP capabilities to offer mid to large enterprise customers and a complete portfolio of IP cloud enablement consulting services.
We have strong public cloud products but we are fully aware that there is strong competition in this space.
We do believe though that we are well positioned to compete and win in the hybrid cloud market as we offer the full range of network cloud managed hosting collocation and IP services that we believe our customers want and need.
We are rapidly expanding and enhancing our capabilities for the managed hosting cloud space as well.
Continuing on to slide 8; in the consumer segment we continue to see good results from those markets where we have deployed higher bandwidth in IPTV services.
For example since our limited gigabit service deployment in Omaha the results continue to exceed our expectation in the consumer market and we are seeing good results in the small and medium business space as well.
Yesterday along with our gigabit service inspection of our businesses we also announced that the availability of gigabit service to residential customers in select locations in nine cities includes some of our larger markets like Minneapolis St.
Paul Denver Seattle Las Vegas and Portland.
We also expect to continue to invest in our Prism TV capabilities we plan to add approximately 300 000 Prism TV addressable homes in 2014.
We continue to monitor the success of Prism TV in our current markets and will consider further expansion in the months ahead.
Finally we are focused on driving improved operating efficiency through a number of methods including network simplification and rationalization that should improve our NDN provisioning time and help drive standardization.
Also we are focusing on process automation improvement through applications and work tools that better drive lower operating costs and that we expect to improve sales efficiency.
We continue to modernize our network replacing ATM with IP technology which enables higher bandwidth -- broadband speeds for customers while adding network capacity to our growing customer base.
Since January we have added over 2 terabytes to our IP backbone bringing our total capacity to 18 terabytes per second.
And we have continued to manage expenses related to legacy service about aligning our expenses and reduced revenues in that sector.
Lastly we have laid the foundation to migrate our internal IP operations to our cloud platform by investing in virtualization.
Since 2011 we have consolidated our internal IT operations for more than 10 data centers to four data centers.
We are also using a Cloud First approach to rapidly deploy the same innovative platform infrastructure and software to service solutions across to internal IP operations that we are selling through our cloud and IP hosting customers.
We are on track to have 90% of all new and strategic internal IT applications in the cloud by the end of 2015.
Overall I am pleased with the strong results for the quarter.
We remain focused across all operating segments from offering our customers high value products and service solutions along with the high quality customer experience we believe brings loyalty and improves customer attention.
And we continue to invest to drive growth in our business.
With that I will turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results and third quarter guidance.
Stewart? Jr.</strong> Thank you Glen.
I will spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the second quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the third quarter 2014 guidance we had included in our earnings issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on slide 10 I'd like to review some highlights from a strong second quarter results.
I will be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
As Glen mentioned earlier we generated strong operating revenues and cash flows in the quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.54 billion on a consolidated basis and a 0.4% increase from second quarter 2013 operating revenues.
Core revenue defined as strategic revenue plus legacy revenue was $4.1 billion for the second quarter nearly flat from the year ago period.
Strategic revenues grew 5.1% year-over-year and now represent 51% of our total revenues compared to 48% a year ago.
Strategic products such as high speed internet high bandwidth data services Prism TV and managed hosting services continues to drive this growth.
Additionally customer growth was solid as we added approximately 16 000 Prism TV customers during the second quarter.
Due to typical seasonality high speed internet customers declined 2 100 in the quarter which was better than the loss of approximately 8.400 customers in second quarter of 2013.
We generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.81 billion for the second quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 39.9%.
The year-over-year decrease in operating cash flow and operating cash flow margin was primarily driven by higher customer premise equipment sales expenses related to the growth of Prism TV a higher USF contribution factor and the continued decline in legacy revenues.
Additionally we generated $677 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid per taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
As strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long term shareholder value.
We continue to expect our dividend payout ratio for full year 2014 to be approximately 45%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.72 including approximately $0.03 of favorable one time items.
If you exclude these items we still exceeded our adjusted diluted EPS guidance for the quarter.
As we have discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemented financial schedules.
We are pleased to announce the completion of our $2 billion stock repurchase program authorized by our board in mid-February 2013.
Although the program was originally slated for a two-year completion timeframe we executed opportunistically and repurchased 59.5 million shares in less than 18 months.
Also during the quarter we commenced the $1 billion follow-on program authorized by our Board earlier this year.
Across both programs we have repurchased 4.5 million shares for an investment of $160 million during the second quarter of which 1.2 million shares were under the $1 billion follow-on program.
From the end of the quarter through yesterday we have repurchased an additional 1.4 million shares for approximately $52 million.
We expect to continue our opportunistic approach to repurchasing shares under the current $1 billion authorization.
Now turning to slide 11; the $16 million or 0.004% increase in second quarter 2014 operating revenues compared to second quarter 2013 was primarily a result of growth in strategic and data integration revenues that was partially offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
The growth in our strategic revenues is primarily driven by strength in high speed internet high bandwidth data services Prism TV and hosting services.
Although legacy revenues continue to decline the decline in the second quarter 2014 was approximately 25% lower than the second quarter revenue decline a year ago.
Data integration revenues were higher year-over-year due to increased CPE sales.
Now turning to slide 12 I will discuss each of our operating segments beginning first with the consumer segment.
Consumer generated $1.5 billion in operating revenues which grew slightly from second quarter 2013.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 8.6% year-over-year to $709 million driven by growth in high speed internet and Prism TV customers price increases and improved churn.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 6% from second quarter 2013 as access line and long distance revenue declines were partially offset by select price increases.
The comparable year-over-year decline in second quarter 2013 was 9.3%.
So a decline in legacy revenues of 9.3% second quarter a year ago versus a 6% second quarter this year.
Our operating expenses increased 4.4% compared to the same period a year ago primarily driven by higher Prism TV costs.
Moving to slide 13 our business segment generated more than $1.56 billion in operating revenues during the second quarter which increased $39 million or 2.6% from the same period a year ago.
Second quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased by 7.8% to $663 million from second quarter a year ago driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
We continue to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer mix and we continue to see an opportunity for further investment in the small and midsized business space to improve our market share and drive further growth.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 3.9% from second quarter 2013 due primarily to continuing decline in access lines.
Data integration revenues grew 12% in second quarter 2014 compared to second quarter a year ago driven by higher CPE sales.
Total business segment expenses were up 6.6% primarily driven by higher CPE costs and facility costs associated with the MPLS product growth along with higher employee related expenses.
The segment margin of 37.9% declined from 40.2% a year ago this decrease was primarily due to the higher costs I just mentioned along with the continued decline in business segment legacy revenue.
Now turning to slide 14 our wholesale segment generated $866 million in operating revenues a decline of 4.8% from second quarter of 2013.
Strategic revenues for wholesale were $568 million nearly flat with the second quarter 2013 as growth in Ethernet services and wireless bandwidth expansion was offset by DS1 disconnect.
Legacy revenues declined by 12.1% to $298 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long distance minutes of use and the implementation of lower access rights under the KF order.
Operating expenses for the quarter declined $18 million or 6% compared to the same period a year ago driven by lower employee related and facility costs.
Now moving to slide 15 and our hosting segment which includes all managed hosting cloud services collocation and hosting related network services revenue.
This segment generated $358 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 3.2% from second quarter 2013.
Year-over-year managed hosting revenues including cloud grew 9.6% while collocation growth of nearly 2% was impacted by customer churn and price erosion.
Hosting operating expenses increased 3.9% primarily due to higher employee costs.
Second quarter segment margin for hosting was 26.3% an improvement from 22.6% in first quarter 2014.
We anticipate further segment margin improvement for hosting in the last half of the year.
Over time we expect long term improvement in both revenue and margin trends across the hosting segment and we continue to leverage these assets to drive additional revenue through cross-selling opportunities in our other segments.
Now turning to slide 16 and our third quarter 2014 guidance.
For the third quarter 2014 we project total operating revenues of $4.47 billion to $4.52 billion; core revenues of $4.06 billion to $4.11 billion and operating cash flow between $1.72 billion and $1.77 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.58 to $0.63.
We expect third quarter 2014 revenues and operating cash flow to be lower than second quarter 2014 primarily due to continued decline of legacy revenues and increased operating expenses related to the normal seasonality of outside plant maintenance and utility costs.
We expect $20 million to $30 million of higher seasonal outside plant maintenance and utility costs in third quarter versus second quarter.
We also anticipate an additional $0.02 to $0.03 per share impact in third quarter due to increased depreciation related to capital investment made during the first half of the year.
Finally as I mentioned earlier there were approximately $0.03 per share of favorable one time items in second quarter which will not occur in third quarter including approximately $0.015 of operating expenses and $0.015 related to the adjusted effective tax rate and interest expense.
So we got a benefit in the second quarter of $0.03 that will not reoccur again in the third quarter.
Our full year 2014 guidance remains unchanged from that provided on our February earnings call.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I will ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First I guess I have to ask the obligatory question on kind of your reaction to the Windstream PLR announcement.
What they are planning on doing in terms of separating the company into two parts and how they use that to kind of finesse the dividend cut into the business and kind of -- if you could kind of walk us through what you have thought along these lines and what you're thinking now that Windstream has a PLR in the world it will be helpful.
And then second there is a lots of math we can start doing on the guidance but maybe Stewart just focusing on the revenue guidance if I look at the third quarter guidance do the math on the full year and implied fourth quarter revenue guidance it implies -- at the midpoint something like a $80 million stepdown in revenues from 3Q 4Q which based on the last eight quarters seems like pretty unlikely.
So you're steering towards the high end of the revenue guidance at the moment.
Could you talk a little bit about what are kind of the focus issues for getting there and is it possible that we are actually going to see revenue growth this year rather than next? Thanks.
III</strong> So David first reaction to the Windstream announcement.
We see a lot of opportunity to create value for shareholders by operating our assets as we do today and we complete -- we are pleased with our continued trend for revenue stability.
However we continually evaluate the best ways to deliver long term shareholder value and as such we will monitor the Windstream restructuring process as it moves forward.
So we will just monitor as they move first quarter and evaluate it over time as opposed to the short time period we have had since its end market reaction that we have had since they announced.
Jr.</strong> So the -- from a standpoint of the revenue guidance and -- we would expect to be towards the top end of the revenue guidance that we gave for the full year.
In fact if you look at all of the guidance that we gave related to full year which we gave early February we would expect to be at the upper end of that guidance or in the at least the top half of that guidance.
For each item with the exception of our operating cash flow and basically the operating cash flow we would expect to be more towards the midpoint the reason being expenses really related to the higher revenue than we expected primarily expenses related to the CPE and Prism TV content costs.
Perfect thank you.
And if I could just ask one more clarification Stewart just on the number you talked about the $0.015 benefit to the operating expense items which I guess would be about $8.5 million in after taxes maybe $12 million before taxes could you talk about where that shook out in the numbers we saw this quarter? Jr.</strong> Yeah probably a penny of it was due to ad valorem tax true-ups in operating expenses and the other $0.05 really related to employee benefits.
Perfect.
All right thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Good evening.
We are seeing a number of transactions in this space including in the CLEC space and the data center space over the last few weeks.
Can you just comment on -- I am sure you looked at some of those how you're thinking about M&amp;A right now and your various parameters there as you think about deploying capital organically versus acquisition? And you expanded your 1 gigabit footprint.
Can you give us a little bit more color around the scale of that? Any CapEx implications and what was really the trigger that got you comfortable with moving forward around the business model for that? Thank you.
III</strong> Simon regarding M&amp;A and how we look at that.
First of all we believe the investment we are making in the business today are really positioning us well to compete and drive revenue growth.
As we have discussed today and have seen in our numbers then join the strategic service products we have developed and are selling and growing well and moving towards revenue stability.
We are obviously monitoring and dealing with the industry's consolidation activity and look at numerous opportunities throughout the year.
As I have said we are open to that.
We think there are opportunities that could create growth and drive value for shareholders.
But as I said before our preference for inorganic growth would be for opportunities that fit well with our strategic priorities.
Those that can enhance our revenue and cash flow trajectory in particular.
We have considered investments that would enhance our broadband offering for business or consumers or both.
We look at opportunities that would improve our metro fiber capability and opportunities to invest -- for investments that would expand our data hosting capabilities.
And we think all three of these could drive growth.
But whatever those opportunities are we will continue that and [indiscernible] over the last year to use our disciplined approach to these opportunities which in our view requires several things.
First of all the right strategic fit especially the ability to improve our growth profile.
Secondly we have to see free cash flow accretion within a reasonable period of time and then a clear path to creating value for shareholders.
So those makes the three criteria we use and we look at every opportunity that comes our way within that framework and we think there are potential deals out there but nothing that we talk about right now.
Thank you.
And on the 1-gig product? III</strong> The 1-gig expansion we expect to do that within our current budget first of all within the $30 billion [ph] or so budget we have.
So we do not expect the budget expansion for that.
Secondly we believe that 1-gig just taking the fiber the home and fiber of these businesses somewhat future proofs accompanying our operations and we think -- we have looked at compare that to fiber-to-the-node and we believe that in some of these cities that we are in that we can drive greater growth greater consistency of growth throughout this -- through the 1-gig product versus some of the fiber-to-the-node of what we have done previously.
So that's how we are considering this and we have had really good success in the markets we have entered with our gig product.
So we expect to continue to expand and not only that we are starting this investment with going to the business by taking fiber and the gig service to our business customers throughout these markets.
And going from there into offering our prism service in these residential areas as we can take the fiber network build sort of the gig network we are building for the businesses and take it through these residential areas to drive our fiber products.
So we are seeing good growth there as well as we have talked about today already.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
Maybe a follow-up on the CapEx question.
Can you provide a little bit color on the breakdown which projects do you think will come off the CapEx budget this year and how much do you expect to spend on fiber next year? And how should we think about further IPTV investments? Thank you.
Jr.</strong> So Batya if you think about our capital budget for this year what we expect to spend in 2014 which again includes the markets spending for the markets that Glen just discussed.
About half of our capital budget is really what we would consider to be revenue enablement.
Its associated with the Ethernet EPLS and enablement our cloud hosting high speed internet enablement so that would be the category this would fall in.
About 28% of our capital budget is what we'd consider to be success-based which really is the -- just success based sales of fiber-to-the-tower our national sales set-top boxes things like that and then about 22% of the $3 billion is what we consider maintenance CapEx which basically just keeps the likes of it.
And IPTV going forward? III</strong> We would expect -- I mean our capital budget for next year we would expect it to be within the $3 billion range plus or minus $100 million or so probably.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Phil Cusick from JP Morgan.
Hi.
This is Eric in for Phil.
You guys have seen good growth last couple of quarters in strategic services what's driving that momentum? Is it your salesforce becoming more effective or are you seeing a pickup in business spending? Are you selling to new customers or existing customers for the most part? III</strong> Phil I think I will ask Karen to address that.
First off it is the demand for bandwidth products like MPLS Ethernet has been very good growth for us.
We continue to I think take share there relative to a large global account as well as enterprise.
So I would say that would be the key.
Sales organization continued to perform.
Our run rate continued to improve.
We had stretched targets on this year and are hitting those.
And then our Managed Office managed services we are seeing -- very pleased with our follow [ph] in terms of just IT organizations heads of businesses really very curious and willing to outsource more of their IT and infrastructure services.
And so we are well positioned we believe there.
Okay great.
And then operating expenses were higher probably to CPE.
How much of the growth in strategic revenues are coming from CPE sales versus data and managed services? And how should we think about that elevated level of operating expenses going forward? Jr.</strong> So about $29 million over what we had expected to be -- operating expenses to be for the quarter where CPE expenses in excess of what we had anticipated that were driven by the higher sales and higher revenue.
III</strong> I'd just add Stewart expense levels we are seeing drive most of our expenses our strategic service such as rollout of Prism turning a lot of our expense growth as well as other strategic services have you looked at the -- well the really expense growth coming from outside of CPE and just the sales and marketing and cost of [indiscernible] services.
Should we expect this level to remain high going forward? Jr.</strong> Yes.
I mean as our revenue grows with the strategic products especially the Prism TV products and some of the out of market MPLS networks that we are selling where we have third party costs associated with the last mile the margins on that revenue is going to be lower than margins on the legacy revenue.
So the expenses would grow over time as the revenue grows.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks.
Stewart maybe just expand upon that last comment because it looks like the revenue offset sort of getting to your flattish-type year-over-year growth.
At an almost equal decline in legacy as improvement in strategic and EBITDA was down only about $25 million year-over-year just trying to get a sense? I know you're just talking about the significant margin differences in those revenue streams.
It would appear based upon the EBITDA decline that the incremental margins might be a little bit tighter than we thought.
Alternatively SG&amp;A might be the driver there.
I am trying to get a sense for what kind of pressure we can see downward on SG&amp;A as we go forward? Thanks.
Jr.</strong> Mike.
I think its more the mixed CPE revenue and the growth that we have seen there over a year ago or over the last year is really driving the expense growth that you're seeing there and the margin pressure.
Okay.
And just secondly on the working capital side it looks like you had a bit of a headwind in the quarter.
Is that just the timing difference that will even out as the year goes on? Jr.</strong> Yes it is.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
So looking at some of the improvements and the declines in the legacy revenue can you give us some color on that as just of a shrinking base there is it something else you're doing? And then also on the cost side you mentioned sort of managing some of the costs in that business? What sort of specific tactics are you doing to take the costs out of that part of the business? III</strong> So Frank on the revenue side so the second quarter -- as the first quarter benefited the second quarter also benefited from some price increases that we did in the third quarter a year ago on some of the legacy products.
So we will cycle through that after the second quarter of this year.
And the comps will be a little bit tougher in the third quarter.
Additionally we did some price increases early part of this year too that benefited second quarter as well.
So I think that's what you are seeing -- that's helping the revenue decline on legacy.
Additionally our access point loss related to our customer loss right continues to decline somewhat.
Jr.</strong> On the cost side we are doing continual cost improvement programs and we talked about some of those on our network.
We are going to replace ATM with IP technology.
We have consolidated data centers in the last year since it -- which are impacted by the legacy revenue losses.
We are removing more of the cloud type IT services that's reducing our costs as well.
So we have done a lot of these things that are going over that desk where we are specifically targeting especially areas that are cost drivers in the legacy area.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up.
Are there any other sort of cost increases you might be able to push through on some of those legacy products that have relatively reasonable -- reasonably favorable impacts on the churn relative to some other things or any sort of caps induced or authorized price increases that we might be able to expect over the next 12 months? III</strong> So product was the access rate reductions that went into effect July 1st.
We expect to really pretty much be able to offset that through additional arc that we will charge our customers which effectively is a price increase to the customers and we are also looking at some of our other products too that we could potentially tweak prices on a little bit in the latter half of the year.
But nothing significant.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
III</strong> Thank you Saeed.
Overall we are well pleased with our second quarter operating and financial results and seeing improvement especially in our revenue trend.
We believe the investments in our business continue to transform our company and position us to effectively compete in the marketplace and drive revenue growth from our strategic products and services in the months and years ahead.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the coming weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This includes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's third quarter 2014 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
As you move to slide 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for fourth quarter 2014 and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in these forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our web site at ir.centurylink.com.
Now as you move to slide 3 your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer and also available during the question-and-answer portion of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of Wholesale; and Jeff Von Deylen President of Technology Solutions.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through November 13 2014 and the web cast replay of our call would be available through November 27 2014.
Anyone listening to a taped or web cast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of November 5 2014 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to slide 4 I'll turn the call over to Glen Post.
Glen? III</strong>  Thank you Tony.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I am pleased with our solid financial performance for the third quarter.
We continued to effectively execute against our objectives and make investments that we believe will drive increased revenue.
Now turning to slide 5 we achieved solid revenue in the third quarter.
Total operating revenues of $4.514 billion were basically flat compared to third quarter of 2013.
This revenue performance represented significant improvement from 1.2% decline in year-over-year revenues in third quarter 2013 and 1.3% decline in pro forma growth year-over-year revenues in the third quarter 2012.
Data integration revenues were $22 million higher in third quarter of 2014 than the third quarter of 2013 primarily due to increased CPE or customer premise equipment sales.
Our core revenue which represents strategic and legacy revenues combined was $4.08 billion for the quarter a decline of only 0.6% from the year-ago period.
This comparison also represents a strong improvement from the 1% and 1.8% declines in year-over-year core revenues in third quarter of 2013 and 2012 respectively.
Now continuing to slide 6 I'd like to highlight the key drivers for this continued strong improvement on our revenue trend.
The improvement in core revenues was driven by the combination of the continued growth in strategic revenue and a lower rate of decline of legacy revenue.
Business at core revenue grew sequentially and year-over-year driven by demand for high bandwidth data services and our bundled service offerings combining network CPE software applications and managed services.
We also continued to see good growth in Ethernet services from our fiber-to-the-tower investments in our wholesale business as we meet the growing data transport needs of our wireless carriers.
However as we mentioned last quarter wholesale operating revenue continues to be pressured by the migration from low speed data services to fiber-based Ethernet as well as continued network grooming by wireless carriers.
Consumer strategic revenue grew over 6% year-over-year fueled by continued strength in high speed Internet and Prism TV customer growth price increases and improved churn.
Managed-hosting and cloud revenue grew 14% year-over-year while total occasion revenue grew 4.5% resulting in total hosting revenue growth of 5.6% compared to third quarter 2013.
Additionally if you look at our combined business and hosting segment revenues we've achieved year-over-year revenue growth for the last nine quarters.
Turning to slide 7 we continued to transform our company from a provider of traditional network communications to an integrated provider of IP-enabled network cloud hosting and IP services that we are refining our focus and executing on several strategic priorities.
We believe these priorities are key to successfully navigating the continued transformation of our company in driving long-term profitable growth and value to our shareholders.
The first of these is to grow business network solutions.
We expect to continue to focus on driving growth from high bandwidth data services including MPLS Ethernet Wavelength business depot and voice-over-IP services by providing reliable connectivity to meet the growing bandwidth needs of our business customers.
In the third quarter we experienced continued strength in sale for high bandwidth data services.
We announced expansion of our 1 gig service for business customers to 16 markets in August which has resulted in strong small and mid-size business sales.
This expansion provides increased addressable market opportunities for our business sales team and ultra-fast Ethernet quality speeds to our customers allowing them to cloud-enable their businesses.
We also believe our targeted marketing approach and a continued expansion of our sales team as well as continued enhancements in our product portfolio positions us well to drive revenue growth.
For example we are seeing continued strong sales results associated with our launch of Managed Office a solution that integrates network voice-over-IP email and other key business applications.
And although slowing somewhat from the levels of last few years we continued our fiber deployment to wireless towers to capture the growing demand from wireless carriers for data backhaul.
During the third quarter we completed fiber to approximately 1 200 towers for a total of near 21 000 fiber builds.
With respect to our cloud and hosting business we believe we have a strong set of assets to enable us to meet the growing demand we're seeing from businesses ranging from small to global in size for cloud and hosting services.
These assets coupled with our expansive network capabilities enable our sales teams to deliver integrated hosting and network solutions that meet the customers’ needs lower operating costs enable them to focus on their core businesses.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to compete and win in the hybrid cloud market as we offer the full range of network cloud managed hosting hosting co-location and IP services that we believe our customers want.
During third quarter we launched CenturyLinks private cloud service which is available on the same industry recognized platform as our public cloud service enabling new hybrid IP capabilities.
This new cloud service delivers the agility and innovation of public cloud but with the physical isolation dedicated hardware and security standards that many large enterprises require.
I believe CenturyLink is well positioned to capture the future growth of enterprise IT workload that we expect to migrate to the cloud over time whether these workloads end up in multi-tenant or dedicated cloud infrastructures.
Additionally during the quarter we announced the rollout of our global managed hosting services in China.
This expansion along with our Asia Pacific capabilities enable us to better serve multinational corporations inducting business in the world’s second largest economy.
We continue to enhance our ability to compete in the growth of hosting services by building and leveraging our broad IP capabilities to offer enterprise customers a complete portfolio of IP cloud enablement and consulting services.
Turning now to slide 8.
In the consumer segment we continue to see good results in those markets.
We have deployed higher bandwidth and IPTV services.
For example since our limited gigabit services deployment in Omaha the results continue to exceed our expectation in the consumer market and we are seeing good results in small and medium business space as well.
Along with our gigabit service expansion for businesses we also announced the availability of gigabit service to residential customers in selected locations in 10 cities including some of our larger markets like Minneapolis St.
Paul Denver Seattle Las Vegas and Portland and we expect to continue to expand the availability of this service in the months ahead.
We also plan to continue to invest our Prism TV capabilities and we've added more than 240 000 addressable homes year-to-date on track to reach a total of 300 000 new Prism TV addressable homes for the full year of 2014.
We do anticipate expanding Prism TV service to additional households and markets during 2015 however we're not ready to announce specific markets at this time.
Finally we are focused on driving improved operating efficiency through a number of methods including network simplification and rationalization that should improve our NDN provisioning time and help to drive standardization.
We are also focusing on improving process automation through applications and work tools that drive lower operating costs and that we expect to improve our sales efficiency.
We continue to modernize our network replacing ATM with IP technology that enables high broadband speeds while also adding network capacity to serve our growing customer base.
Since January we have added over 3 terabytes to our IP backbone bringing our total capacity to 19 terabytes per second.
Also we continued to manage expenses related to our declining legacy revenue.
Lastly we have laid the foundation to migrate our internal IT operations to our cloud platform as we continue to invest in IT virtualization.
In recent years we have consolidated our internal IT operations for more than 10 data centers to 4 data centers.
We are also using a Cloud First approach to rapidly deploy the same innovative platform infrastructure and software-as-a-service solutions across to internal IT operations that we are selling through our cloud and IP hosting customers.
We are currently on track and have average to host the vast majority of our new and strategic internal IT applications the CenturyLink cloud instead of our internal data center.
Moving to slide 9.
Effective November 1st we've implemented and refined our organization structure to better serve our customers and drive incremental growth.
We are pleased with the progress we've made toward our goal of reaching long-term growth and we believe this structure will accelerate that progress.
This change combines marketing sales and services delivery for all of our customers under one leader additional we've created an organization of single leader who is responsible for operational excellence the NDN engineering delivery and managing our network and data centers.
We believe that these changes will strengthen our focus on revenue generation and go-to-market strategy and improve our ability of development delivering new technology and solutions by better aligning our cost structure in our revenue stream.
This change in our organization structure are likely to result in some modification of our segment reporting that we'll determine in the coming weeks.
Overall I'm pleased with the solid results for the quarter.
We've remained focused across all operating segments on offering our customers high-value products and service solutions along with high-quality of customer experience we believe creates loyalty improves customer retention and we continue to invest in to dry growth in our business.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Stewart Ewing for looking at our financial results and fourth quarter guidance.
Stew? Jr.</strong>  Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the third quarter and then conclude remarks with an overview of the fourth quarter 2014 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on the slide 11 I'd like to review some highlights from our solid third quarter results.
I'll be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
As Glen mentioned earlier we've generated strong operating revenues and cash flows in the quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.51 billion on a consolidated basis nearly flat from the third quarter of 2013 operating revenues.
Core revenue defined as strategic revenue plus legacy revenue was $4.08 billion from the third quarter a decline of only 0.6% from the year ago period.
Strategic revenues grew 4.4% year-over-year and now represent 51% of our total revenues compared to 49% a year ago.
Strength in strategic products such as high-speed Internet high-bandwidth data services Prism TV and managed hosting services continuous to drive this growth.
Additionally we entered approximately 14 000 Prism TV customers and 8 400 high-speed Internet customers during the third quarter.
We generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.75 billion for the third quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 38.7%.
The year-over-year decrease in operating cash flow and operating cash flow margin was primarily driven by higher Customer Premise Equipment sales higher content cost related to the growth of Prism TV and the continued decline in legacy revenues.
Additionally we generated $780 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash taxes paid interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.63 the high end of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance for the quarter.
As we've discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Additionally under the $1 billion share repurchase program we have repurchased 1.7 million shares for an investment of $64 million during the third quarter.
We expect to set up a program in the next few days to facilitate the purchase of shares through our fourth quarter earnings release date.
Now turning to slide 12.
Third quarter 2014 operating revenues were flat to third quarter 2013 as the growth in strategic data and integration revenues was offset by lower legacy revenues due to excess live losses and lower minutes of use.
The growth in our strategic revenues was primarily driven by strengthened high-speed Internet high bandwidth data business services Prism TV and hosting services.
Although legacy revenues continued to decline the revenue decline in third quarter 2014 was 9% lower than the third quarter revenue decline a year ago.
Now turning to slide 13 I'll discuss each of our operating side with beginning with the Consumer segment.
Consumer generated $1.49 billion in total revenues which represented a decline of eight-tenth of a percent from third quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 6.4% year-over-year to $712 million driven by growth in high-speed Internet and Prism TV customers price increases and improved churn.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 6.6% from third quarter 2013 as access line and long distance revenue declines were partially offset by select price increases.
The comparable year-over-year decline in third quarter 2013 was 8.7%.
Operating expenses increased 1% compared to the same period a year ago primarily driven by higher Prism TV cost or contact cost.
Moving to slide 14 our business segment generated $1.57 billion in operating revenues during the third quarter which increased $25 million or 1.6% from the same period a year ago.
Third quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased 6.1% to $677 million from third quarter 2013 driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
We continued to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer base and we see an opportunity for further investment in the small and midsized business space to improve our market share and drive further growth.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 4.8% from third quarter of 2013 due primarily to continuing decline in access lines.
Our data integration revenues grew 13.6% in third quarter 2014 compared to third quarter 2013 driven by higher CPE sales.
Total business segment expenses increased 7% driven primarily by higher CPE costs and facility costs associated with the MPLS product growth along with higher employee-related expenses related to additional sales resources brought in to drive future revenue growth.
Our segment margin of 36.5% declined from 39.6% a year ago this decrease was primarily due to the higher costs I just mentioned along with continued decline in business segment legacy revenue.
Now turning to slide 15.
Our wholesale segment generated $843 million in operating revenues a decrease of 4% from the third quarter of 2013.
Strategic revenues for wholesale were $560 million down slightly from third quarter 2013 as growth in Ethernet services and wireless bandwidth expansion was offset by declines in low speed data revenues.
Legacy revenues declined to 10.2% to $283 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long distance minutes of use and the annual implementation of lower access rights under the KF order.
Operating expenses for the quarter declined $8.1 million or 2.7% compared to the same period a year ago driven by lower employee-related and facility costs.
Now moving to slide 16 to our hosting segment which includes all managed hosting cloud services collocation and hosting related network services revenue.
This segment generated $361 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 5.6% from third quarter 2013.
Year-over-year managed hosting revenues including cloud grew 14% but collocation revenue grew 4.5%.
Hosting operating expenses increased $9 million or 3.5% primarily due to higher employee cost related to the revenue growth.
Overtime we expect long-term improvement in both revenue and margin trends across the hosting segment and we continue to leverage these assets to drive additional revenue through cross selling opportunities in our other segments.
Now turning to slide 17 and our fourth quarter 2014 guidance.
For fourth quarter 2014 CenturyLink projects total operating revenues of $4.44 billion to $4.49 billion.
Core revenues of $4.04 billion to $4.10 billion and operating cash flow between $1.75 billion and $1.8 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.59 to $0.64.
We expect fourth quarter 2014 operating revenues to be lower than third quarter 2014 primarily due to lower data integration revenues or our CPE revenues.
Core revenues are expected to be approximately inline with third quarter as the declines in legacy services are offset by growth in strategic services.
Fourth quarter cash expenses are expected to decrease from third quarter primarily due to the normal seasonality of outside plant maintenance and utility cost and lower CPE sales related to the anticipated decline in data integration revenues.
Based on our revenue outlook for fourth quarter 2014 we expect total revenue results for 2014 to be approximately $40 million to $80 million above the midpoint of our original 2014 guided range which was $18 billion primarily driven by higher than anticipated non-recurring CPE sales.
As we look forward to 2015 we continue to expect operating revenues to be approximately the same as these projected 2014 revenues.
However the increase in the rate of decline in the low speed data services revenues which is Glen discussed earlier driven by the accelerated pace of network grooming by wholesale customers in the second half of 2014 and the higher than anticipated CPE sales in our projected 2014 revenues as mentioned above has added risk to this comparison.
We also anticipate capital expenditures for full year 2015 to be inline with our expected full year 2014 capital expenditures of approximately $3 billion.
We will provide further 2015 guidance in mid-February when we report our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
So I guess first question is on the fourth quarter revenue guidance.
Stewart I guess I was looking at the data integration revenue line and it's been elevated all year.
I think every quarter you've called it out as being surprisingly strong but it's strong every single quarter and now in fourth quarter is the quarter where you are now expecting it to maybe ease off.
So are you expecting it to be kind of flat year-over-year growth wise or really significantly down? And if so why? And then this kind a goes into my next question which was I mean we've been looking at 2015 as the revenue inflection year for probably a couple of years now.
It's been this goal you guys have really set out you seem to be now hedging a little bit that maybe it is maybe it isn't because of all these risk factors one of which is CPE and the other is the narrow band contraction revenues.
So if you could talk a little bit about the driver of the narrow band issue and what was unexpected about it and kind a how you're planning on managing it to get to revenue growth for next year will be great.
Thanks.
Jr.</strong>  Yeah.
So first of all David I’ll try to get in the order that you indicated.
It is forecast lower in the fourth quarter.
We had a larger deal that closed in the third quarter.
Fourth quarter of '13 was about $187 million and we are expecting the fourth quarter of this year to be about $144 million.
So we do expect it to be down.
We just don't have the same number of large deals into pipeline that we expect to close in the fourth quarter.
In terms of 2015 being an inflection year basically when we started talking about – we still believe first of all when we say we still believe that we can get to the level of revenue hopefully that we will have this year in 2014 which will be higher than the midpoint of the original guidance that we gave.
So the original guidance we gave the midpoint $18 billion.
We are going to end up probably $40 million to $80 million higher than that.
So basically that puts some challenge associated with 2015 just right out of the gate plus our CPE revenues and it really relates to CPE revenues in 2014 being higher than 2013.
So the low speed narrow band issue that we have seen basically really started kind of at the end of the second quarter.
So where we started seeing more disconnects than we saw in actually the first quarter and really second quarter of this year and what it is basically is related to we're having fewer towers that we are building to because we're just about through the cycle of building fiber to the towers and we are still seeing disconnects of the low speed circuits and they really seem to relate to; one a customer that basically shut a network down and secondly towers that we were not successful in terms of obtaining the fiber-to-the-tower bills from.
So we expect this to play out sometime probably during the first half of 2015 in terms of the rate of decline that we are seeing and just to quantify it for you it’s probably in the -- and it's really lower than what our expectations were.
It won't necessarily be lower than – it won’t be that much lower than this year’s revenue but it’s somewhere in the range of $50 million to $100 million or so.
But we have overcome that and think we can overcome that with the improvement that we have been able to see in our business revenue growth and also the lower decline in our consumer revenue growth that growth that we have seen this year.
So we have offset some of that decline in effect.
So basically two parts to that.
One is the starting point for the revenue growth kind of inflection is actually higher than what we thought it was going to be when we were talking about it at the beginning of 2014 and then we have got this narrow band issue we can overcome that with the business and consumer initiatives and the CPE side is probably going to be relatively low margin.
So at the end of the day it's not that important to revenue stream? III</strong>  At the end of the day it's not that important Dave.
We will be right in the range of our 2014 revenue in 2014 plus or minus a little bit and it may depend on how much CPE we sell.
But again you've got to characterize exactly correct the jump off point more or less or the base that we set in 2014 was higher than the midpoint when we started talking about revenue stability and then towards the latter half of this year we've seen a little bit weakness in the low speed connections on the wholesale side.
Okay great.
Thanks for the clarification.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Could you also provide some color on your outlook for margins? I think you have always said that once the revenue trends stabilize EBITDA stability should be 12 to 18 months behind that.
So how should we think about margin outlook for 2015 and beyond? And another question on the CapEx.
You are maintaining your $3 billion guidance would suggest a big ramp in 4Q what will that mainly be spent on? And looking at 2015 wireless backhaul spending it probably comes down what will that be replaced with to maintain a flat level? Thanks.
III</strong>  Yes.
So Batya the margins we think they will continue to come down slightly as we continue to lose the higher margin revenue.
But again lose it at a slower rate than we've been losing it in the past.
But we would still expect EBITDA to stabilize 12 to 18 months or so afterwards assuming we can continue the rate of decline in the legacy revenue and assuming we can continue the rate of growth in our strategic revenue.
And I think we haven't really called where the margins will end up but somewhere in probably the mid to upper 30s range.
One thing if you if you look at our business margins I mean they were down a pretty good quarter-to-quarter but if you back CPE out of both of the quarters the third quarter last year third quarter this year the margins in third quarter last year were 41% the margin this year is about 39%.
So again outside of the CPE we're getting good margins in that business.
CapEx it is going to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.
We have some of the network work that we are doing to try to upgrade some of our networks.
We also have some data center expenditures that we're going to buy as well in the fourth quarter.
So we will just kind of catch-up a little bit in the fourth quarter with what we had expected to stand for the year.
In terms of wireless backhaul we really don’t have the details of 2015 budget laid out at this point but we probably still have some fiber-to-the-tower builds next year and any monies that we don't spend there will probably go in our funds deployment as we try to build fiber to more business customer and more buildings to allow our customers to be able to sell high-speed data services to our customer.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
You are saying on the CapEx I think you said Prism would cover 300 000 households this year.
You are not ready to choose markets in the next year but having given forth to accelerating the pace of Prism? I noticed the broadband ads were somewhat light this quarter perhaps you can sort of just talk to that as there some pressure on DSO outside of your Prism market so what can you do to get some better growth in that? Thanks.
III</strong>  I'll talk about the first part of your question Simon and then Karen can pursue with the units.
But as we are considering acceleration of the Prism investment here we have probably mid-year before we actually initiate service in new markets but we do expect to expand and we've identified a number of markets and we're still working with franchise with some of the cities and we are grooming our plan getting ready for that investment will be also have with that process of bringing Prism cities but we are expecting more move forward certainly accelerate what we have been this year.
Okay.
Good.
Simon this is Karen.
In terms of HS-5 I will first say that we still have historically low churn and we are very proud of that work we have done.
In terms of some of the softness I would characterize that we have some softness in our ATM market.
We have you know really taken out some of the marketing that we will do there for all the right reasons.
We have to some softness in some alternative channels that we have and then this quarter we are very focused on just improving our inward ARPU and we accomplished that cost on the unit but we are still very optimistic we have fiber-to-the-node and where we have fiber-to-the-prem.
We're very competitive and can compete with cable in ATM market you know so that's a bit more challenging.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong>  Hey guys thanks.
I guess just thinking about the couple of comments regarding prices and Karen just mentioned inwards but how price sensitive are you finding consumers right now with respect to whether you know it's broadband or traditional telecom services? And then secondly just as thought on Prism TV I mean hearing a lot of over the top chatter and TV moving in different directions does that changed your view on sort of longer-term where you want to take Prism TV? Thanks.
In terms of the pricing how concern consumers are I would say the market hasn't changed a lot.
It really is around the promotional that ad flows in terms of the amount sometimes per quarter.
There is a lot more chatter around speed as you get especially cable where they have up their speed on their entry level programs that 60 gigs in many of our markets.
On Prism I think we are very still very optimistic about Prism over the top there is an opportunity.
We continue to follow what's happening.
We have the capability given our Prism foundation and content capability there and it's a matter of getting the economics right.
So we continue to be focused and look at plans to have some type of over the top offering in the future.
Inc.</strong>  Karen just I guess sticking on the economics on the consumer market the 1 gig product you're rolling out obviously it's relatively limited.
But how do you think about the economic sort of on a permanent basis if you would?  So the announcement that we made actually last earnings call we look at the opportunity.
We're focused on the fiber deployment getting that cost per households deployed down and so that range needs to be under 1 000 per households.
We have the GPON that were currently rolling out that were constructing as we speak fit into those metrics very easily because it was aerial fiber and short leaves.
So that works.
The bigger next step that we got to continue to get that fiber deployment done.
We've been working on a couple of different approaches and we're making progress there so that's important for our ability to rollout fiber in a bigger way.
The other thing I would just mention on the fiber to the business GPON to business really very optimistic.
The sales team there is very excited the early indicators and we just started marketing that are positive and we think that will put us in a very competitive position here in the next couple of quarters.
Inc.</strong>  Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question Phil Cusick with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Given what sounds like a potential revenue decline in 2015 should we still think about EBITDA stability a couple of years beyond revenue or with CPE being the difference or good chunk of difference in 2015 could that time frame tighten a bit? Thanks.
III</strong>  Yeah.
Phil we still believe we can hit hopefully 2014 revenue and 2015 into where it will be the planned.
We're just saying that there is some challenges and risks getting there with what we're seeing but we still should be able to see EBITDA stability.
We think again within the periods that we've talked about of 12 to 18 months after we get revenue stability.
So hopefully after 2015.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kevin Smithen from Macquarie Capital.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Yeah.
How should we think about cash taxes in 2015 and assuming difference in scenarios on bonus appreciation? I know you have some amortization that's not deductible.
Can you talk a little bit about the difference scenarios for cash taxes? And then as follow up to that can we talk a little bit about priorities for use of cash next year.
I think your share repurchase is a little bit lower this quarter despite the strong free cash flow.
How should we think about use of cash in 2015? Jr.</strong>  So basically in terms of cash taxes we'll pay $50 million to $100 million of cash taxes in 2014 and really that represents virtually no federal taxes.
In 2015 we would expect our cash taxes to increase somewhere in the $600 million to $700 million range on incremental basis.
So $700 to $800 million or so of cash taxes in 2015.
Should almost depreciation get implemented and extended basically for 2014 and 2015? We would expect our 2015 cash taxes to be maybe $50 million to $150 million higher than they are in 2014.
So maybe $150 million to $175 million next year.
III</strong>  Kevin this is Glen.
I'll talk about the use of cash.
As far as the stock buyback is concerned we did very much progress this past quarter.
We expect to be back on track in the coming quarter.
As we said from the beginning we'll buy optimistically and we look each quarter but we are committed to stock buybacks.
We think they are good.
The money we spent on our own in the last couple a years has really been a good investment for us.
So we're pleased with that.
We also are committed to our dividend.
We think is well protected by our free cash flow and our dividend payout ratio this year we expect to be about 45% as we feel good about dividend.
In addition to dividend and stock buyback we're continually waiting to make best utilize our cash.
We look at additional capital expenditure opportunities we're drive growth in the business.
We looking to possible debt reduction and then acquisition opportunities inorganic opportunities that can drive growth for us.
But our continued focus is really on the best way is to utilize our cash to drive long-term shareholder value and that's where it’s been for years and we're continue that focus.
And any from further development on sort of your REIT exploration process if you will? Jr.
</strong>  No Kevin.
We're basically going watch which streams go to their process and just see how that goes and then we'll make a decision at some point after that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citigroup.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Two if I could first is should we be thinking about the revenue impact of the inter-carrier compensation reform during the quarter in terms of moving some revenue from regulatory to retail and how much that might be in the Consumer and Business segment? And then second question I have is if you look at the slowdown in legacy revenue erosion are you look by market are you look by product? Is there a certain secret sauce that you're finding in some markets where you really start to see that slow? Is that the maybe the voice customers get to a certain level of market share or broadband capabilities get above a certain level.
If you can maybe give us your sense of what's happening underneath there that would be great.
Jr.
</strong>  So Mike the revenue impact of the inter-carrier comp or reform is really is not that significant.
It does reflect or result and a decline in our wholesale segment revenue but that decline in the wholesale revenue segment is really pretty much offset as you'd indicated by many increases that we're able to do in the charge to our consumer and our business customers.
They are charged which really virtually offsets the access to charge reductions that we're implementing.
And how much is that that moves from wholesale to retail in terms of dollars? Jr.
</strong>  Yeah.
About $5 million a quarter or so.
Okay.
III</strong>  And concerning the secret sauce we don't know if there is really a secret sauce.
We look at every market individually as far as at the capabilities and that we've provided in the marketplace.
We've look at bundles of services kind of price it comparatively but we have found a level of voice customers a level of broadband and really said it's going to slow at any point in time.
We think that will happen we just don't know where that is yet.
But absolutely new product and services as a bundle services where we believe it helps a lot for us in recent quarters.
Thank you.
Thank you and our final question comes from Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Can you talk a little bit about the cost trends in the network where you kind of seen both of deploying fibers more to the nodes and fiber to the home over the last couple of years? Thanks.
Yeah.
I think the cost trends I would say continued to improve and a lot of it is just around like I said the work that we've been doing.
And we do need to continue to drive improvement in those each year so that we can get fiber further out.
But it's everything from the approach to the process and also anything around the install improvements that we can get there.
So it's really an improved.
Have you seen material improvements though or can you talk about the trends a little bit on the technology that you've seeing over the last two or three years?  I can't say that there has been a large increase in technology over the last couple of years.
The biggest thing that helped us is really more on the Prism side the wireless set-top box.
That really has changed the game for us.
It improved significantly our ability on the time of install as well as the customers love it.
But I think there is one thing that you would ask us to the team that would be the number one thing.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
III</strong>  Thank you Steve.
Overall we are well pleased with our solid third quarter operating and financial results.
We are pleased with a continued improvement in our revenue trend.
We are confident that the investments in our business continue to position us to effectively compete in the marketplace to drive revenue growth from our strategic products and services in the months and years ahead.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's fourth quarter 2014 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
If you turn to Slide 2 you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for full year and first quarter 2015 and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at ir.centurylink.com.
Now turning to Slide 3 your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer; and also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's President of Global Markets.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through February 19 2015 and a webcast replay of our call would be available through March 5 2015.
Anyone listening to a taped or web cast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of February 11 2015 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
So as we move to Slide 4 I'll now turn the call over to Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Starting on Slide 5 our fourth quarter results were slightly weaker than our expectations but we are pleased with our full year 2014 performance and the progress we made toward reaching revenue stability.
The weakness in the fourth quarter was primarily due to lower hosting revenue growth resulting from lower installs and non-recurring revenue along with higher churn and credits.
Also we experienced accelerated decline in low bandwidth data revenue and we had a one-time true-up in employee healthcare cost that impacted the quarter.
We are taking a number of actions to drive a stronger strategic revenue growth in 2015 and we’ll discuss some of those with you today.
Our recent organizational realignment is expect to result in some initial negative impact on our sales momentum in the first half of 2015 but we are confident this refined operating structure positions us well to drive stronger revenue results strategic revenue growth and operating efficiency over the long-term.
Global sales and revenue is now led by Karen Puckett and we expect to accelerate our future revenue growth through a more unified sales and marketing approach and improved customer experience.
Additionally the alignment of our shared global network and data center infrastructure operations under a single senior leader Maxine Moreau is expected to drive increased efficiency and consistency.
We also completed two strategic acquisitions in December.
We acquired a DataGardens in Cognilytics which we believe significantly enhance our project and solutions portfolio.
The DataGardens acquisition give us a leading disaster recovery as a service cloud solution which once fully integrated with our current IT solution should provide an improved end-to-end customer experience.
Acquisition of Cognilytics positions CenturyLink as a leading provider of advanced predictive analytics and big data solutions to help mid-size and large enterprises convert data to decisions.
We accomplish this through deep expertise and big data deployment advance decision sciences and predictive analytics.
CenturyLink can now deliver advanced big data analytic solutions across multiple industries including financial services retail consumer products healthcare oil and gas among others.
Also we have an outstanding portfolio of network hosting cloud IT and managed service capabilities.
We’ve integrated this broad portfolio into solutions for a diverse set of customers from the largest companies from the world to small locally focused companies.
In addition we’ve expanded our distribution capabilities and made additional investments in our product enhancements we believe will be effective in helping drive growth in the coming year.
Now turning to Slide 6 I'd like to recap our performance for 2014.
During the year we continued to effectively execute against our objectives and make investments we believe will lead to revenue stability.
For the full year 2014 we generated total operating revenue of $18.03 billion a 0.4% decline compared to 2013; it’s an improvement from the 1.5% year-over-year decline in 2013 compared to 2012.
In 2014 the core revenue strategic and legacy revenue trend also continue to improve from 1.3% annual decline in 2013 to a 0.6% annual decline in 2014.
This continued revenue improvement was driven by a nearly $380 million increase in strategic revenues primarily due to growth in high bandwidth data services high-speed Internet Prism TV and hosting and cloud revenues.
Revenue growth from high bandwidth data services MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength was a strong 16% year-over-year.
Additionally a decline of legacy revenue slowed from 7.4% in 2013 to 6.3% in 2014.
We achieved solid growth in both high-speed Internet and Prism TV subscribers throughout the year adding 91 000 and 67 000 respectively.
We've been pleased with t continued growth of Prism TV subscribers in existing markets where we further expanded Prism TV service in 2014.
Throughout the year we invested to enhance our network to improve speed availability across our footprint.
One direct result of this investment is that we grew the number of enabled access lines receiving 20 megabits and 40 megabits each by more than 45% over the prior year.
Additionally we generated solid free cash flow of $2.7 billion and returned approximately $1.9 billion to shareholders through our dividend and share repurchase program.
Now turning to Slide 7 during 2014 we continued to transform our company from a provider of traditional network communications to an integrated provider of network cloud hosting and IT services and we're focused on executing on several strategic priorities.
We believe these priorities are key to successfully navigating the continued fast promotion of our company and driving long-term profitable growth.
The first of these is to grow business solutions.
We continue to drive strong strategic growth revenue growth from meeting businesses and government demand for our MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength network services during the year.
Additionally our Managed Office and Managed Enterprise Solutions continued to gain traction and are beginning to drive meaningful revenue growth due to increasing customer interest from both small and large business customers.
These Managed Services help free them from day-to-day management of their network services and equipment as well as maintenance.
We are seeing strong demand for GPON service from businesses and expect to drive additional revenue growth from our continued expansion of GPON availability in the months ahead.
Wholesale revenues remained under pressure due to lower bandwidth data service disconnects along with reductions in intercarrier compensation and declining voice usage.
We've had success mitigating our losses by expanding our fiber based wireless backhaul services; we now serve over 21 000 towers.
The key focus in 2015 will be helping our wholesale customers with their colocation and cloud requirements.
Growth in our hosting services including collocation managed hosting cloud solutions was below our expectations.
However we believe the hosting opportunities remain strong as we improve the capability of our highly automated next generation CenturyLink cloud platform.
Price compression on colocation renewals and technology refreshes along with some increased churn driven by small group of large customers continue to pressure overall hosting revenue growth.
In addition with our focus on leaving IT capacity issue due to production workloads we've seen a measured adoption of multi-tenant cloud based services based on how ready the customer's application architecture is for cloud conversion.
However interest in and demand for cloud based services continues to grow.
Also our sale of colocation services reached record levels in the second half of 2014.
From the standpoint of cloud we are focusing on opportunities that leverage our key strengths in cloud one example of which is the ability of IT departments to set spending thresholds at the individual or department level and monitor cloud spend on a real time basis.
Although our Managed Hosting sales are not where we want them to be we are seeing success in selling our cloud and Managed Hosting Solutions.
And during the fourth quarter we added eight Fortune 500 companies as CenturyLink cloud and managed hosting customers.
And finally on direct channel partners are beginning to sell our managed hosting solutions; we expect to additional partners in 2015.
Going on to Slide 8 in the consumer segment we continue to see good results in those markets we've deployed higher bandwidth and IPTV services.
For example in Omaha the results continue to be strong in the consumer market and we are seeing good results in the small medium business space as well.
Along with our gigabit service expansion of our businesses we also announced the availability of gigabit service to residential customers in select locations at 10 cities including sine of our larger markets like Minneapolis St.
Paul Denver Seattle Las Vegas and Portland.
We expanded the gigabit footprint in these markets in 2014; expect to further expand availability of this service in the months ahead.
We also plan to continue to invest in our Prism TV capabilities having added approximately 385 000 addressable homes during 2014 which exceeded our full year 2014 target of 300 000 household.
As of year-end we had more than 240 000 Prism TV customers across addressable homes of 2.4 million.
We anticipate expanding Prism TV service to additional households and markets during the second half of 2015; we're not ready to announce specific markets at this time.
Finally we are focused on driving improved operating efficiencies through a numbers of methods including network simplification and rationalization that should improve our end to end provisioning time and help to drive standardization.
We continue to modernize our network by replacing ATM with IP technology that enables high broadband speeds while also adding network capacity to serve our growing customer base.
For full year 2014 we added over 4 terabytes to our IP backbone bringing total capacity now at 20 terabytes per second on that backbone.
Also we continue to manage expenses related to out declining legacy revenues and lastly we have laid the foundation to migrate our internal IT operations to our cloud platform as we continue to invest in IT virtualization.
In recent years we have consolidated over our internal IP operations from more than 10 data centers to 4 data centers and we are using a cloud first approach to rapidly deploy the same innovative platform infrastructure and software-as-as-service solution across our internal IT operations that we're selling through our cloud and IP hosting customers.
This effort is expected to reduce our IT cost and improve security and other efficiencies for CenturyLink.
In summary I believe we are well-positioned in markets with a strong portfolio of strategic assets.
We've also invested in expanding our unified distribution capabilities and we have at laser focus on continuing to improve our revenue trend in the months ahead.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results and full year and first quarter 2015 guidance.
Stewart? Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the fourth quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the full year and first quarter 2015 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on Slide 10 I'd like to review some highlights from our fourth quarter results.
I'll be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
Operating revenues were $4.44 billion on a consolidated basis a 2.3% decline from the fourth quarter of 2013 operating revenues.
Core revenue which is defined as strategic revenue plus legacy revenue was $4.05 billion for the fourth quarter a decline of 1.5% from the year ago period.
Our strategic revenues grew 2.2% year-over-year and now represent 52% of our total revenues compared to 50% a year ago.
Strength in strategic products such as high-speed Internet high-bandwidth data and Prism TV continue to drive this growth.
We added approximately 12 900 Prism TV customers and 18 600 high-speed Internet customers during the fourth quarter.
We generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.71 billion for the fourth quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 38.5%.
The year-over-year decrease in operating cash flow and operating cash flow margin was primarily driven by the continued decline in legacy and product line revenue and an accounting adjustment of about $40 million related to employee healthcare cost offset by one-time reductions in facility cost and operating taxes totaling $30 million recorded.
Additionally we generated $373 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures along with other income.
Our solid cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Our adjusted diluted earnings per share for fourth quarter was $0.60.
As we've discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedule.
These special items included two larger items worth calling out in the fourth quarter a $60 million favorable income tax adjustment and an approximate $60 million pension settlement charge as a result in a partial termination of a plan.
Additionally under the $1 billion share repurchase program we repurchased 2.3 million shares for an investment of $91 million during fourth quarter.
We expect to continue to be optimistic in completing this program within the 24-month period.
Now turning to Slide 11 fourth quarter 2014 operating revenues declined $104 million or 2.3% compared to fourth quarter a year ago as the growth in strategic revenues was more than offset by the decline in legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use and lower data integration revenues.
The growth in our strategic revenues was primarily driven by strength in high-speed Internet high bandwidth business data services and Prism TV.
Although legacy revenues continue to decline the revenue decline in fourth quarter 2014 was 16% lower than the fourth quarter revenue decline a year ago.
Moving to Slide 12 as outlined in our earnings release beginning with the fourth quarter reporting we've changed our segment reporting to align with our new organization structure.
We will now report two segments: Business and Consumer.
The Business segment consists primarily of providing network IT services colocation managed hosting and cloud services to enterprise wholesale and governmental customers across the U.S.
and select international locations.
The consumer segment consists primarily of providing products and services to residential consumers across our 37-state footprint and remains relatively unchanged from prior reporting.
Schedules providing eight quarter trended detail of these new segments are provided in the earnings supplement which is available on our investor relations website.
Now turning to our Business segment.
In fourth quarter the business segment generated $2.7 billion in operating revenues which decreased $102 million or 3.6% from the same period a year ago.
Fourth quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased 0.4% to $1.6 billion from fourth quarter year ago driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength which was largely offset by the continued decline of low bandwidth data services and a one-time true-up related to strategic revenues of approximately $10 million in the quarter.
We continue to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer growth market and we see an opportunity for further investment in the small and medium size business space to provide improved market share and drive further growth.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 6.4% from fourth quarter 2013 due primarily to continued decline in access lines.
Total business segment expenses increased slightly from the year ago period driven primarily by higher sales related expenses.
Our segment margin was 43.6% a decline from 46% a year ago.
This decrease was primarily due to the higher cost I just mentioned above along with the continued decline in business segment legacy and low bandwidth data services revenue.
On Slide 13 I’ll provide a little more detail on the revenue mix within the business segment.
High bandwidth data services revenue grew 13% year-over-year compared to fourth quarter of 2013 driven by continued strength in sales to enterprise and governmental customers.
Low bandwidth data services including private line continued to decline in fourth quarter.
The year-over-year revenue decline of 13% was primarily due to continued disconnects of TDM circuits by enterprise and wireless customers as they migrate to fiber-based services.
In the fourth quarter data integration revenues decreased approximately $40 million or 23% compared to fourth quarter 2013 driven by lower CPE sales.
If you remember fourth quarter in 2013 we actually had one sale to a large customer that makes up most of that difference.
Now turning to Slide 14 Consumer generated $1.49 billion in total operating revenues which was basically flat from fourth quarter 2013.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 6.4% year-over-year to $727 million driven by growth in high-speed Internet and Prism TV customers price increases improved churn and certain favorable revenue settlements in the current quarter.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 5.7% for fourth quarter 2013 as access line and long distant revenue declines were partially offset by select price increases.
The comparable year-over-year decline in fourth quarter 2013 was 8.5%.
Operating expenses increased slightly compared to the same period a year ago primarily driven by higher Prism TV content cost.
Now turning to Slide 15 and our full year and first quarter 2015 guidance for full year 2015 we anticipate total operating revenues of $17.9 billion to $18.1 billion and core revenues of $16.25 billion to $16.45 billion both stable when compared to full year 2014 due to expected continued increases in the level of strategic revenue growth offsetting the anticipated legacy revenue declines.
Operating cash flow is expected to range from $6.8 billion to $7 billion and free cash flow is expected to range from $2.5 billion to $2.7 billion.
Operating cash flow and free cash flow are expected to decline for full year 2014 primarily driven by the continued decline in higher margin legacy revenues the impact of higher expenses associated with the increased growth in strategic revenues and an increase in pension expense of approximately $90 million due to changes in actuarial assumptions which really relate to our adoption of new mortality tables.
We anticipate a decline in depreciation and amortization expense of approximately $250 million for full year 2015 compared to full year 2014 primarily driven by the impact of declining amortization of acquisition related intangible assets and the annual review and update of deprecation rates which were expected to more than offset increases in depreciation expense associated with continued capital investment.
Included into the full year free cash flow estimate are cash taxes of $25 million to $50 million.
As a result of bonus deprecation being approved our cash taxes will now be less than we anticipated earlier.
We also expect to incur capital expenditures of approximately $3 billion in 2015 and adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $2.50 to $2.70.
Currently we have not yet decided whether to accept or reject the specific build-out opportunities related to support payments available under CAP II.
We plan to provide an update later this year when it is determined the extent to which the implementation of CAP II will impact our future revenues and cash flows.
For first quarter 2015 we expect operating revenues of $4.45 billion to $4.5 billion an increase compared to fourth quarter 2014 primarily due to projected growth in strategic revenue offsetting the anticipated decline in legacy revenue resulting in higher core revenue and also higher data integration revenues in first quarter 2015.
Core revenues are expected to range from $4.04 billion to $4.09 billion.
Operating cash flow is projected to be between $1.64 billion to $1.69 billion a decrease compared to fourth quarter 2014 primarily due to higher pension cost payroll taxes and operating taxes along with the continued decline in higher margin legacy revenue.
We also anticipate an approximate $90 million decline in depreciation and amortization expense in the first quarter of 2015 compared to fourth quarter of 2014 driven by the reasons previously described.
The anticipated lower level of depreciation and amortization expense is expected mostly offset the decrease in operating cash flow and the impact of favorable income tax adjustments in fourth quarter 2014 resulting in adjusted diluted EPS expected to range from $0.56 to $0.61 per share in first quarter 2015 compared to the $0.60 in fourth quarter 2014.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I’ll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for taking the questions.
I guess my first question is Stewart if you could kind of go back and kind of catalog in one list some of these one-timers from the fourth quarter I think you normalized some out in your EBITDA number but you didn’t normalize some other ones out which I guess were a $40 million one-time expense offset by $30 million in one-time benefits; there was I think you said there were some positive revenue settlements in the consumer segment in the quarter.
If you could kind of walk us through that so we could kind of get sense is to what kind of earnings power the company was in the fourth quarter.
And then the second part on the guidance I guess Glen you kind of foreshadow that the shape of 2015 would be a little stronger in revenue in the second half than the first half as a result of some of the reorganization issues but looking at the first quarter revenue guidance its up sequentially it's actually flat year-over-year to midpoint.
So I was wondering could you kind of give us a sense to how much of the expectation for revenue stability do you kind of have in hand right now that you see in your books and your funnels and then what increment is coming from the hopped four benefits that will be in the back-end of this reorg? Thanks.
Yes so David in terms of the fourth quarter items that were more or less one-time items we did have a $40 million true-up related to group insurance that was an increase in expense that was basically offset by $30 million of favorable adjustments that we had; we had about a $15 million favorable adjustment for related to operating taxes which were primarily property taxes and then $15 million related to facilities cost.
That was a favorable adjustment that’s a one-time adjustment.
So really net-net about $10 million negative expense in the fourth quarter that would be one-time adjustments.
And on the revenue side basically there were just a couple of offsetting items there.
In business revenue on the strategic side we had a $10 million negative adjustment that I mentioned.
That was related to a large customer that we have that we needed to book the revenue differently than the way -- basically it needed to be accounted for differently based on the contract.
So we had a $10 million negative adjustment there on the business segment or strategic revenue.
We also had a positive settlement that I mentioned as well of about that $10 million that impacted consumer revenue on the strategic side and that was basically related to the couple of settlements that we had with parties that we sell products for.
Got it.
Yes David regarding the revenue and first half or second half you are right.
We do expect more growth in second half of the year.
We think we’ll some mild disruption due to this reorganization; we are changing sales plan we’re changing really sales leadership for certain accounts across the country.
So there would be some disruption there.
Our funnel is good right now; we have a really good funnel.
Also we’re seeing a lot of demand for combined solutions that we are selling.
As I mentioned we saw some big deals with some Fortune 500 companies we're selling in small mid-size space we’re seeing a lot of demand for our managed office product.
So we’re confident we’re going to see increasing demand in the second half of the year and yes we are up in the first quarter but we expect we need more acceleration to hit that revenue stability that we expect into the second half of the year.
So that’s what we believe going to happen; we believe we have plans in place to make that happen including the expanded distribution along with the unified approach combining our cloud hosting and network sales teams and leadership.
Yes and David the first quarter guidance for revenue is a sequential increase from fourth quarter to first quarter.
Right.
And thank you guys and if I could ask one quick follow-up Stewart again it sounded like you're baking in the EBITDA guidance you're baking in $90 million of incremental pension pressure related to assumption.
Is it fair to say that if interest rates start to go back up that we kind of get that back over the course of the year? Yes so David that’s baked into the EBIDA assumption but it’s really a non-cash charge.
It's just completely related to an increased or a change in the mortality tables adopting newer mortality tables that reflect people living longer.
Basically with what’s -- we'd actually merged our three pension plans in the fourth quarter and we are funded at about 84% or so and we actually had no required pension contributions at all from a cash standpoint for the next three to five years based especially where we look at today.
I mean we had a good – a good year; our pension assets are and about 12% or so 12% to 14% in that range and -- but basically our liability went up a little over about a $1.2 billion basically due to $1 billion of it related to the change in the mortality tables about a $1.2 billion related to a lower discount rate; we're using a discount rate of 3.9% versus about 4.9% a year ago and then we had a little over a $1 billion of earnings.
So we feel good about where we are with respect to the plans but that $90 million incremental pension pressure is really a non-cash expense.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open; please go ahead.
Great thank you.
Couple of questions.
First can you a little bit more color on the slowdown in the hosting revenue growth maybe if you could quantify the churn on what you expect for churn to be in that segment for 2015? And you had mentioned before that cross-selling is a big opportunity.
Do we still have that as an upside for that segment? And second question I had sort of lot of M&amp;A activity in the space and maybe if you could remind us your thoughts on further asset purchases as data centers and space that you want to get bigger and what are some of the criteria that you would consider? Thanks.
So Batya I'll take the first one and let Glen take the second one.
Basically in terms of the churn the slowdown in hosting I mean we continue to have bankruptcies hit us from the standpoint of some of the customers in our facilities and some customer credits really related to some new services that we’ve had.
So basically I mean we think we can really get that work through and from a co-location standpoint we actually had really good quarter from the standpoint of new sales.
And we have a lot of optimism in terms of our ability to be able to sell the colo space and with the developments that we are making to our cloud product that was part of the tier-3 acquisition we’re confident in our ability to be able to get that product where we can as Glen mentioned we picked up five Fortune 100 Fortune 500 companies and so we had a lot of confidence in our ability to able to add to that.
It certainly is not up to expectation it's not up to where we wanted to be but we think with the changes that we’ve made in the selling organization will a more sellers selling those products and service now over time we’ll see improvement in the revenue associated with those businesses.
Batya regarding the cross-selling we're bring our sales teams together; so we hope there’s more and more common knowledge.
We do a lot of training with those folks.
We will have centers of expertise for both network and cloud and hosting but we think we opportunity to bring to those together and sell a solution of cloud and network is really a strong potential upside force.
We were talking with a customer this week who we just talked with; executive talked with it really was interested in enabling the hybrid cloud offering with our cloud hosting and network capability end-to-end type capabilities.
So believe that the opportunity is really strong there bringing those together.
Batya there were two other one-time items I'd like to mention.
We had lower non-recurring revenue bookings of about $2 million in the quarter on related to hosting and also we had foreign currency impact that was negative of about $1.2 million.
So we had about $3.2 million of more or less one-time items that were negative in the quarter.
And then Batya regarding the further asset purchases we might be interested in we have a similar strong set of assets that believe are aligned with the growth opportunities in our industry.
As we've discussed the majority of our strategic products and services are growing well and moving us toward revenue stability.
That being said we are obvious of where all the consolidation is going on in the industry.
We think there will be opportunities for additional assets purchases that could enhance our growth.
Our preference as I've said before is for inorganic growth or opportunities that really fit well with our strategic priorities that create unique value for our customers the differentiation and that's what we've done with the last two acquisitions which also give us some capabilities that others don't have and opportunities that can enhance our revenue and cash flow trajectory.
We like to see that growth accelerate and not try to avoid situation will really pull our growth down and that should be a major view.
We will consider opportunities that would expand our network capabilities would increase our metro fiber access footprint.
Those are types of assets we'd be interested in looking at overtime and/or investments would enhance our data hosting and cloud and IT service capabilities.
So we will -- with each of those opportunities of course we will continue our pretty disciplined approach to these acquisitions.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
I guess first if you can talk about your broadband speed upgrade plan.
The SEC has raised the broadband definition to 25 meg how does that affect your thoughts and any thoughts on cash? First of all I'll let Karen address that Phil.
I'd like to say that the new definition of broadband doesn't really impact us in a significant way.
We're going to find our customers with much broadband as we think we can afford in what and the needs that they have.
Again we're selling solutions not just speed so we'll continue to do that.
It will change how we define broadband probably going forward but it won't impact necessarily our investment in broadband.
I'll let Karen talk about upgrade plan.
Phil the other thing I might mention is there are new broadband speed upgrade plan.
It really doesn't affect CAF-II because CAF-II is 10 meg down and 1 meg up so so it's a lot lower than the new speed that they just announced.
Now I'll let Karen talk.
I don't think there is much more to add there.
I would just say in terms of the broadband speed.
We've been talking over many other calls about the importance of GPON and our commitment to continue to get that cost structure down cost per household down.
We continue on with our consumer GPON that we've been talking about that’s the 10 markets good response.
We like the halo effect that's just in new markets and then the business GPON equally important.
So the fiber-to-the-node is still an important DOCSIS still very important technology.
And when you carry that have fiber sets of markets with like first step of density you need all the technology plan for that.
Okay.
And then second can you just expand quickly for me on the realignment of the business and how that is going to slow things down it doesn't look like 1Q you're looking for a whole lot of slowdown.
Should we look for a sort of weaker middle of the year and then some acceleration in the back half? Yes so let me just kind of walk through that just quickly in terms of this is in a business segment and we have two segments that were sub-segmenting in going to market we have a global segment which are 1 000 employees and more and then an enterprise less than 1 000.
The enterprise segment is pretty much not impacted here.
There is some changes.
But the real integration of the former BSD business solutions sellers which came from the network communication side of the company and the CTS sellers they're in the global space and that's where the integration is happening.
And it really is working through customer portfolios.
We've been very thoughtful about how we build customer modules very thoughtful about as Glen said the product specialists that are important behind these sales executives and from there build the modules.
So there is module changes there is compensation changes we really want sellers hunting more and we're incenting them to do that.
So it's just a transition to new comp structure and some new changes in customer portfolio.
The sales we're hoping will be flat but we're saying that we could be down a bit on first quarter which will impact us further quarters out.
But I will tell you that across the board you talk to one of our global sellers they will say this is the right thing to do.
We really needed that one stays to the customer and get the technical support behind that.
So it's been embraced by changes always hard for an organization in particular sellers.
Does this create an opportunity to accelerate the EBITDA or the cost cutting? You sound like Stewart now we'll take every opportunity.
We do think obviously there are some attrition fees.
We got to get the revenue trajectory the sell trajectory going for us.
There are some attrition fees because you have more coverage right.
You have better coverage with potentially you have less headcount.
So the answer is yes we got to let that all play through.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
What's the internal virtualization of your IT systems? How long you've been working on that and what sort of cost savings can you expect to see materialize and we've been talking for a little bit for a while about the larger customer churn and the hosting in co-lo business what point do you expect to see that stabilize may be see a little bit better growth out of that business? Yes Frank.
First of all virtualized IT systems I don't have a number to give you I haven't really disclosed that figure.
But we're anticipating especially control significant ability to control our cost going forward.
We're going to reduce cost initially but we're taking all of our serve based systems our non-mainframe systems and moving them as we speak to our cloud.
And we are closing data centers; we're reducing headcount in those areas.
We are able to often do a lot of automation there and it is we think that the opportunities are significant to -- and as I said not just reduce its current cost but control cost going forward with this virtualization.
So we're very confident in it and we are -- we believe we have -- we don't drink own bath water here we don't do it ourselves we think that the opportunities are really significant.
Frank this is Karen.
In terms of the co-location churn the CTS organization have put in some changes towards the end of last year around compensation and contract terms of contract that will have a benefit for us in 2015.
We've targeted that churn to come down we know that customers who are coming out of contract and it really is getting the right churn initiative programs in place to support that.
So the -- the fourth quarter we had a large customer that wasn't with us long to churn on it and those are the kinds of profile we just have to make sure we have the right profile mix of types of customers and I think you'll see that continue to prove here in 2015.
What may be are you going to do differently to keep a customer that would come in and out that quickly on you? Well we probably not enabled them in the first place we start there.
If it's just in terms of the risk of the customer I think we're reassessing the types of risk of customers.
So we're going to start on the front-end.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Stewart maybe just a quick comment looking at the core revenue.
Just looks on papers though unless they're going to be a significant or meaningful deceleration in strategic services that you're looking for sort of continued steady losses on legacy side.
I'm just trying to get a sense of what the thought process is there? And then secondly the broadband net adds can you just give us a sense whether you're seeing gross adds coming in or better churn and how do we think about sort of the intake on broadband? Thanks.
Yes so Mike on the core revenues we believe we've bottomed out in terms of the decline of those revenues and hopefully we'll see continue to see lower declines with the exception of the low speed data services and we're hopeful that we're getting to the point there to where we've worked through most of the clients where had large customers group networks and see the effects of towers that we didn't get the fiber-to-the-tower.
So we're hopeful that that will decline somewhat during 2015 in terms of the rate of the decline that we've been seeing.
And from a strategic revenue standpoint I think the things that Karen has done with respect to the reorganization and the way our -- sales force is focused now the fact that we'll have an increased number of sellers on the street.
I think we can drive the strategic products and services.
I mean we've proven our ability to sell to the large MPLS networks and I think we just need to continue to focus on doing that and get some big deals in 2015 just like we did in 2014.
In terms of broadband it really -- its not a churn issue for us in fact we've done very well on the churn initiatives that we've had in place for over a year.
It really is on the inward side and the inwards are really where we have the lower speed less dense markets or the ATM markets and our growth markets where we have fiber-to-the-node GPON higher speeds where we've got the closure coming in.
But its more challenging in those less dense markets where we don't have to see frankly is the inward issue there.
And Karen you'd mentioned I guess price increases in the consumer side having a positive effect on revenue where will you be able to take price on that was it purely inside the Prism markets or can you take price elsewhere? The price increases in Prism market are the faster the content cost.
We are -- we have a pretty good methodology that we've used over the years in terms of kind of the lifecycle of products and price increases.
And so we're just falling to kind of our process there but you will see continued price increases in the different categories of -- really access lines in other places Prism as for the content cost.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brett Feldman from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I actually want to go back and understand a little more about the low bandwidth data services.
You mentioned that you're hoping the headwinds to moderate a little bit this year what's left in that category who are the key customers what are the services they're buying and why do you think it should moderate and just in general putting aside the tower part when that business churns off how much of it are you typically winning back to other services and to what extent just some of it just kind of go away? Yes so basically the customers there are the large telecommunications customers for the most part that's where the most of the revenue is.
Again we believe we'll have some moderation this year in terms of the churn that we've seen in the network grooming and the copper to the towers that we've had that we've lost.
And basically we think we haven't really shared the amount of revenue in that bucket.
But suffice to say it should come down in terms of the numbers of losses that we see in 2015.
And when you lose it do you tend to just lose it or are you getting it back somewhere else? Some of it we get back.
So basically it goes to -- I think Ethernet service and so basically our Ethernet revenues are cannibalizing the copper based revenues that we have.
So there is some decline in revenue there and it typically takes a few years before the circuits get back to the point where you overcome the loss that you had in the copper circuit.
So it requires a bandwidth increase over the Ethernet circuits over time in order to be able to achieve the same amount of revenue that we're effectively we're getting from the copper circuit.
Great.
And just you mentioned the cash taxes for the year; I just didn’t quite get it could you just repeat that again? Yes so that $25 million to $50 million which is lower than what we had previously been stating because of the fact that almost depreciation was inactive.
So what happens the next year does that inflect higher or is everything get pushed out another year? Yes it does.
So 2016 our cash taxes would be $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion of which about $300 million of that are really taxes that relate to 2015 but because of the way that we can make our tax payment the cash doesn't go out the door for the big part of 2015 until 2016.
Thank you.
And our final question for today comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is Spencer for Simon.
Two quick questions.
So first the buyback slowed pretty meaningful in the second half and there was like quarter-over-quarter should we -- that's just a function of the higher stock price and should we expect that to be down somewhat this year? And then secondly back in 2013 you mentioned expecting a similar inflection in the revenue for the second half of the year.
Can you talk about how your expectations for this year are similar may be different from that? Thanks.
Yes so in terms of the buyback we've spent little over $90 million in the quarter.
We actually spent about $75 million in the month of January.
So our -- the amount of money that we spend every day the cash we spend every day is based on a matrix that we have under our 10b5-1 plan.
And so we still expect to complete that program that $1 million program within the 24-month period from the time that we started that program which effectively was the end of May of 2014.
So basically by the end of May of 2016 we would still expect to be complete that program.
Spencer would you repeat the last part of your question the last question? Yes sure.
I think you guys had made comments previously about expecting acceleration for 2013 I think it was most because of the data hosting business but I was wondering if there is any analogue we can draw for this year in terms of your expectations are similar acceleration for revenues at the back half? Well it’s a combination of revenue growth I think and -- all across the strategic revenue.
But it's -- the reason we believe that or confident that is that first of all we have increased our sales force our distribution both direct and in-direct.
We realigned our sales force we talked about previously under Karen combining our cloud and host again with network.
We believe we're remaining underpenetrated in strategic products and services MPLS and Ethernet we believe we're well positioned really take share back in these areas.
Also we've invested this voice technology with SIP trunking features that give us more capability we believe.
We -- and although as you mentioned our cloud and host results are not -- met our expectations to-date.
The fact is demand for these services is still great and we are -- we believe we are making the right investments in these platforms especially in great automation of our cloud platform that we are rolling out of our Q3 acquisition.
Together with a greater sales efficiencies we expect that we can see -- we're going to see -- these the growth in our hosting cloud and colo sale this year.
And then our recent acquisition I mentioned IP and big analytic services give us -- another significant product to combine these -- with our solution selling we believe can be effective.
So we believe our results will ramp up during the course of the year and we know our plan is ambitious but we believe it's achievable.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you Saeed.
We are pleased with our solid 2014 operating and financial results and the continued improvement in our revenue trend.
While we did experience slightly weaker results in the fourth quarter we believe the reorganization and the investments we're making continue to position us to effectively compete in the marketplace and drive revenue growth from our strategic products and service in the month and years ahead.
And we look forward to talking with you again soon.
Thank you for joining our call today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Sayed and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's first quarter 2015 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for question-and-answer.
On slide two you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for full year and second quarter of 2015 and other outlooks on our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at ir.centurylink.com.
Now as you turn to slide three your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer and also available during the question-and-answer portion of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's President of Global Markets.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through May 13 2015 and the webcast replay of our call will be available through May 27 2015.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of May 5 2015 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As you move to slide four I'll now turn the call over to Glen Post.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Tony.
Thank you for joining our call today as we discuss out first-quarter 2015 results of operations.
We continue to make progress on a number of fronts during the first quarter a few of which are our recent organizational realignment the enhancement of broadband speeds across our network; also we made progress on the integration of DataGardens and the Cognilytics acquisition further automation of our integrated network and hosting services solutions as well.
If you turn with me to slide five overall we generated solid results for the first quarter.
We continued to strengthen our ability to compete more effectively.
We're beginning to see the benefits of our organization realignment implemented in late 2014 and we're confident that this streamlined operating structure positions us well to drive stronger sales results strategic revenue growth and operating efficiency over the long-term.
For the first quarter operating cash flow exceeded our guidance primarily due to lower employee related expenses and favorable one-time items.
I'm pleased with our overall efforts to control cost as we remain focused on reducing spend in legacy areas while continuing to invest in our growth areas.
Total operating revenue was below the midpoint of our guidance range primarily due to lower data integration revenues related to customer premise equipment sales and core revenue is just below the midpoint of guidance as hosting revenue came in lower than expected partially due to an unfavorable foreign currency impact and customer credits.
As anticipated we did experience weaker large business sales in the first quarter primarily due to our organizational realignment that resulted in customer account reassignments to various individual sellers as well as the restructuring of our sales force.
However we are pleased with improving sales following sales momentum we saw coming out of the quarter.
Now turning to slide six we're continuing to transform our company from a provider of traditional network communications to an integrated provider of IP-enabled network cloud hosting and IT services to provide solutions for our customers.
Also we are focused on executing on several strategic priorities that we believe are key to successfully navigating the continued transformation of our company.
The first of these is to grow our business solutions.
As part of our reorganization we further integrated and restructured our go-to-market model in the first quarter as we consolidated network and hosting sales and marketing organizations.
We are confident that this approach will drive long-term sales efficiency across our full portfolio of capabilities by focusing on solution selling and customer acquisition.
We continue to drive strategic revenue growth of meeting business and government demand for MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength network services during the quarter.
Additionally our Managed Office and Managed Enterprise solutions continued to gain traction and we are seeing increasing customer interest for both small and large business customers.
These managed services help free customers from the day-to-day management of their network and related services as well as freedom from equipment issues.
We are seeing strong demand for GPON service from businesses and expect to drive additional revenue growth from our continued expansion of our GPON footprint in the months ahead.
For example the GPON deployment along with the Managed Office product offering and an enhanced sales effort were key drivers of our solid improvement in SMB sales year-over-year.
We had GPON available to approximately 390 000 business locations as of March 31 and we expect to continue to see upside in this segment with our plans to expand our business GPON footprint by more than 100 000 businesses by year-end 2015.
We continue to deploy faster broadband speeds through a combination of fiber deployment and speed enhancements on our existing network to help us more broadly compete in the marketplace.
We've also made solid progress with our development of software-defined networks and network functions virtualization and the associated automated programming interfaces or APIs to the related support systems.
We have commercially deployed virtualized network-based security services content delivery network and cloud firewall services across a portion of our data center footprint with plans for further deployment in the months ahead which we believe positions CenturyLink as one of the leaders in both SDN and NFV enablement.
We also continue to roll out enhancements to our core network offerings including next-generation MPLS and SIP trunking services.
In addition we plan to continue to add new capabilities to Managed Office that we believe will provide unparalleled simplicity for SMB customers looking for a full outsourced solution for their network hosting and cloud applications as well as associated equipment and maintenance.
Turning to wholesale services revenues remain under pressure due to continued low-bandwidth data service disconnects and network grooming along with reductions in intercarrier compensation and declining voice usage.
As you are aware secular trends in wholesale have resulted in revenue pressure from increased network grooming and the migration from low-speed private line services to fiber-enabled Ethernet services by wireless carriers and wireline customers.
Fortunately we have had success in mitigating some of this revenue pressure by expanding our fiber-based wireless backhaul services.
At the end of the first quarter we enabled fiber to over 21 800 towers within our operating footprint and we're expanding our focus on Ethernet services and leveraging our hosting products including colocation having recently won a 2-plus-megawatt data center contract with a major international telecom carrier.
Before I move into the consumer discussion I would like to give you a little more detail about how we view our cloud and hosting results and how we look at that part of our business.
We are beginning to see improved results in our colocation business with a good year-over-year increase in colocation sales results.
We remain focused on improving those results and expect to continue to see good performance in our colocation business as we have nearly 40% of our sellable store space currently available across our total data center footprint.
We are also seeing increased utilization of our new-generation CenturyLink Cloud platform almost doubling the revenue driven from that platform over the last 12 months and we expect that velocity to continue.
I want to be clear though that while we are seeing better results in some parts of our cloud and hosting business overall our results are not what we expect them to be.
CenturyLink Cloud which is the platform we acquired in the Tier 3 transaction just over a year ago enables a wide range of service and is growing but it does not yet provide the full range of services required to serve all of our large enterprise customer needs.
We'll continue to invest in CenturyLink Cloud both through internal development and through service-enhancing acquisitions such as DataGardens and the most recently announced Orchestrate transaction.
The consistent enhancement of the platform has received good reviews from our customers which is reflected in both revenue growth and in positive customer surveys.
We plan to make the CenturyLink Cloud platform the long-term focus of our cloud and hosting strategy.
That said we have not performed as well as we should have with respect to the services that are supported by our legacy cloud and hosting platforms.
We're near completion of some basic tool enhancements and automation development for these platforms which we believe will help drive increased sales across all these legacy platforms.
Although we did experience churn from some large colocation customers that had an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates during the quarter we believe the primary issue here is really one of focus and execution rather than product capabilities.
As we move into the remainder of 2015 we are renewing our focus on driving better results into the legacy cloud and managed services platforms and we expect to see improvement as we move into the second quarter and beyond.
As you all know the demand for cloud and managed service offerings is expected to continue to rapidly expand.
We believe in these growth projections.
And while we have not consistently generated results we've expected in this area we continue to very strongly believe in the opportunity and the assets we have to take advantage of it.
We believe our recent acquisitions and investments position us well over the long-term to capture our share of the significant growth market in the months ahead.
To summarize we're in the process of establishing what we believe is a unique position in the market to offer enterprise customers highly scalable secure and differentiated offerings that bring together a set of highly automated network hybrid cloud security and value creating IT and data analytic services that enterprise customers really need.
We believe we'll be able to demonstrate the power of our network and hybrid cloud offerings in the months ahead.
Turning on to slide seven in the Consumer segment we continue to see good results in those markets where we have deployed higher bandwidth and IPTV services.
In our early GPON markets like Omaha the take rates continue to be strong and are exceeding our expectations.
We continue to expand our gigabit footprint to residential customers in select locations in 10 cities including some of our larger markets and we expect to have gigabit service available to approximately 700 000 residential consumers by the year-end 2015 and followed by further expansion in 2016 and beyond.
During the first quarter we also expanded Prism TV service to an additional 73 000 homes within the existing markets ending the quarter with over 2.4 million addressable homes.
We also added 8 000 Prism customers during the quarter but these adds were negatively impacted by price increase implemented in January to cover content cost increases.
As of quarter end we had more than 249 000 Prism TV customers representing a penetration rate of 10.2%.
We anticipate expanding Prism TV service to approximately 425 000 additional households through the remainder of 2015 and we expect to reach more than 2.8 million total addressable households by year-end.
Finally we are focused on driving improved operating efficiency through a number of methods including network simplification and rationalization that should improve our end-to-end provisioning time and help drive standardization.
Also we continue to manage expenses related to our declining legacy revenues while we continue to invest in areas that are driving growth.
We have laid the foundation to migrate our internal IT operations to our cloud platform as we continue to invest in IT virtualization.
We are using a cloud-first approach to rapidly deploy the same innovative platform infrastructure and software-as-a-service solution across our internal IT operations that we are selling to our cloud and IT hosting customers.
This effort is expected to reduce our IT cost and improve security and other efficiencies for our company.
Lastly we continue to make progress in simplifying our process and streamlining our workflow.
Our network inventory consolidation effort which we have mentioned before continues to progress well.
Additionally we have implemented an automated sales tool to increase our seller efficiency with anywhere anytime access to our back-office systems.
In summary I believe we are well-positioned in our markets with a strong portfolio of strategic assets.
We're also investing in an expanded unified distribution structure and we have a laser focus on continuing to improve our revenue trends in the months ahead.
Now I will turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results and second-quarter 2015 guidance.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</strong> Thank you Glen.
I will spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the first quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the second quarter 2015 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on slide nine I will review some highlights from our first quarter results.
I will be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
Operating revenues were $4.45 billion on a consolidated basis a 1.9% decline from first quarter 2014 operating revenues.
Core revenue which is defined as strategic revenue plus legacy revenue was $4.06 billion for the first quarter a decrease of 1.3% from the year-ago period.
Strategic revenues grew 2.2% year-over-year and represent 52% of our total revenues compared to 50% a year ago.
Strength in strategic products such as high-speed Internet high-bandwidth data and Prism TV continue to drive this growth.
We added more than 35 000 high-speed Internet customers and approximately 8 000 Prism TV customers during the quarter.
Additionally we generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.74 billion for the first quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 39%.
As Glen mentioned we exceeded our operating cash flow guidance as we had lower cash expenses than anticipated.
Expenses were below expectations due primarily to lower employee-related costs along with lower CPE costs related to our data integration revenues and approximately $30 million of favorable one-time items during the quarter.
Free cash flow of $849 million for the quarter was very strong.
As a reminder free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures along with other income.
Our solid cash flows continue to provide us with the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the first quarter was $0.67 coming in $0.06 above our guidance range.
As we have discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Additionally onto the $1 billion share repurchase program we repurchased 4.5 million shares during the quarter for an investment of $170 million.
We expect to continue to be opportunistic in completing this program within the 24-month period outlined earlier.
Now turning to slide 10 first quarter 2015 operating revenues declined $87 million or 1.9% compared to first quarter 2014 as the growth in strategic revenues was more than offset by the decline in legacy revenues due primarily to access line losses and lower data integration revenues.
The growth in our strategic revenues was primarily driven by strength again in high-speed Internet high-bandwidth business data services and Prism TV.
Although legacy revenues continue to decline the decline in first quarter 2015 was 16% lower than the first quarter revenue decline a year ago.
Moving to slide 11 on our Business segment in the first quarter the Business segment generated $2.7 billion in operating revenues which decreased $78 million or 2.8% from the same period a year ago.
First quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased 0.8% to $1.6 billion from first quarter 2014 driven primarily by strength in high-bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength which was largely offset by the continued decline of low-bandwidth data services and lower hosting revenues.
We continue to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer market and we see an opportunity for further investment in the small and medium-size business space to improve market share and drive further growth.
Our legacy revenues for the segment declined 5.4% from first quarter 2014 due to primarily declining access lines.
Total Business segment expenses decreased slightly from the year-ago period driven by lower CPE cost.
Our segment margin of 45% declined from 45.8% a year ago.
This decrease was primarily due to the continued decline in Business segment legacy and low-bandwidth data services revenue.
On slide 12 I'll provide a little more detail on the revenue mix within the Business segment.
Our high-bandwidth data services revenue grew $70 million or 11% year-over-year compared to first quarter 2014 driven by continued strength in sales to enterprise and governmental customers.
Low-bandwidth data services including private line continued to decline in first quarter.
The year-over-year revenue decline of $88 million or 14% was primarily due to wholesale customers' network grooming efforts and migration to fiber-based services that we've experienced over the past year.
We anticipate this level of year-over-year decline to improve over the coming quarters as we cycle through this period of higher disconnects and grooming.
Hosting revenues declined $10 million or 3% from the prior year driven primarily by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of $5 million and lower non-recurring revenue compared to the year-ago period.
In the first quarter data integration revenues decreased approximately $35 million or 20% compared to first quarter 2014 driven by lower CPE sales.
Now turning to slide 13 in our Consumer segment Consumer generated $1.5 billion in operating revenues on 0.8% decline from first quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 5.1% year-over-year to $738 million driven by growth in high-speed Internet and Prism TV customers and select price adjustments.
Legacy revenues for the Consumer segment declined 6% from first quarter 2014 as access line and long-distance revenue declines were partially offset by select price adjustments.
Operating expenses were flat compared to the same period a year ago as lower employee-related costs offset the higher Prism TV cost.
Now turning to slide 14 for second quarter 2015 we expect operating revenues of $4.41 billion to $4.6 billion and core revenues of $4.02 billion to $4.07 billion both of which are expected to be flat to slightly down from first quarter 2015.
Our operating cash flow is projected to be between $1.67 billion to $1.72 billion a decrease compared to first quarter 2015 primarily due to higher employee-related expenses the impact of the continued decline in higher-margin legacy revenue and the $30 million of favorable one-time expense items I mentioned earlier that occurred during the first quarter.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.59 to $0.64 in second quarter 2015 compared to the $0.67 in first quarter of 2015.
Our full year guidance that we provided in February for full year 2015 remains unchanged.
That concludes our prepared remarks for the day.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you sir.
First question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I guess first Stewart just with respect to first quarter results and then the second quarter midpoint guidance and then comparing that to your full-year guidance splitting it up equally it looks like revenue would have to move into the $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion range to kind of get to the midpoint of the full-year number.
Could you talk about the moving parts that are going to get us from that $4.435 billion to that $4.5 billion number that seems to be embedded in the full-year guidance would be...? And the second part of that question would be if we are looking at an upward swing in revenue growth sequentially through the back part of the year could you talk about what the drivers for 2016 would be to kind of keep that going? Thanks.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah so David you're right.
There is somewhat of a hockey stick in the second half of the year which was really implied more or less in the first quarter guidance that we gave as well.
And really there are three areas that we think that we'll see improvements on really starting somewhat in the second quarter but then more so in the last half of the year.
One is we – as Glen mentioned we expect the reorganization that we did and the sales results from that reorganization to improve during the year as we saw some improvement in the month of March over January and February.
So we expect to see continued improvement there and that to be one of the items that hopefully will push our revenue in the second half of the year.
Secondly I mentioned surprise adjustments so we'll have price adjustments that we put in that will basically help continue to improve revenue during the year.
And then also we think the latter half of the year we will really get through most of the grooming that we're seeing from some of the other carriers in terms of wholesale particularly on the private line side.
And we're seeing fewer tower builds which means that basically we're not seeing migration from the copper circuits to Ethernet that we experienced last year too.
So we expect to see a little bit of that.
In terms of 2016 we're hopeful that the momentum we have from a sales standpoint going into 2016 will help us overcome the – to the extent we don't have price adjustments in 2016 that equal 2015 which we don't know yet we're not sure what sort of pricing adjustments we'll have next year.
But to the extent we don't have those pricing adjustments equal to this year we're hopeful that the sales momentum would continue to carry us through the tougher comps that we would have in the first part of this year related to the price adjustments that we made.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And David this is Glen I just had a couple comments.
The one is talking about 2016 we expect greater sales force efficiency as we get through the next few months and really transform our sales force to a little different go-to-market strategy with the solution selling that we're working toward with all of our IP products and cloud hosting also regular network products.
Also additional product rollout as I mentioned we're expanding our GPON footprint during this year so we'll have that really rolled out.
We're expanding our Prism to close to 500 000 additional households past this year.
And then the Cloud hosting product advancements we're working on we think are really significant and can drive a lot of potential sales growth there.
And then bringing in our Big Data Advanced Analytics – the Cognilytics acquisition is driving a lot of activity for us lot of interest throughout the business community for those services and along with those IP services we're not just providing the Cloud service we're providing convergence to the Cloud and software support application support and just the overall increased broadband speeds that we expect to roll out over the next 12 months.
Awesome.
Sounds great guys.
Congrats.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You were active in the market buying back stock this quarter.
Can you just update us on what you have left in the current authorization and how you're thinking about next steps after that given the potential cash tax impact next year? And any potential M&amp;A that might be out there? And then if you could also just comment on your thoughts on the CAF-II proposals from the FCC? Thanks.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
So Simon first on the share buyback basically through – a couple of days ago I guess through the shares that we've settled as of really yesterday we had repurchased about 11.6 million shares under the existing program and spent about $439 million so there's $561 million remaining of the $1 billion program that we had.
And we continue to expect to opportunistically buy shares back and would expect still to complete the program within the 24-month period from which we started it which we started it in February or so – May actually May of 2014.
So by May of 2016 we would expect to complete that.
Beyond that we haven't really talked with the board about the next step from the standpoint of returning cash to shareholders although as you point out we will see an increase a significant increase in cash taxes or expect to see a significant increase in cash taxes in 2016 which we'll use quite a bit of the free cash flow that we've had.
In terms of the CAF-II proposal of course we've just got that – I guess the FCC just released that a week or so ago and started the 120-day clock running basically so we have until August 27 to make the FCC aware of which of the 37 states that we have the option of the right of first refusal in to take up to $514 million is what was allocated to us.
So we have started the process now that we know the census blocks that are included.
We started the process of reviewing the capital expenditures that would be required to get the 10 down/1 up service and I would imagine we will take most of the time allotted to come to some conclusion as to how much of the CAF II monies that we won't accept.
Do you have any sort of initial – do you think you'll take most of it or it's still too early to say? Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> It's really still too early to say Simon.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
First a question on the strategic services within the Business segment.
You explained the pressure that you saw on the hosting side and the low-bandwidth services but can you provide more color on why we saw the high-bandwidth revenues come down sequentially and how you think about that piece going – tracking from here on? And the second question on the other strategic services it's been very lumpy but you had a big quarter this time.
What was in there? Is there any one-timer and how do you expect that going forward? Thank you.
Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yes.
So Batya we had a re-class from strategic services to legacy services in the first quarter that in the aggregate was about $10 million.
About half of it was related to basically network services that Savvis had been providing.
And we decided that as we merge the sales force as we looked at it closer and decided that it really should be in legacy revenue.
And then the other was just some other strategic revenue that we found that we really needed to re-class to legacy too so that was about $10 million of it.
And then also the SAB 104 deferral revenue I guess we didn't have as many one-time sales in the first quarter as we had in the first quarter a year ago and that basically – the way we account for it reduced the strategic revenue somewhat.
Okay.
Maybe putting it all together how should we think about the strategic services within the Business segment trending from here on? Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah so I mean we would expect basically based on the sales effort that the business strategic revenues should hopefully trend better going forward.
And then also as Glen mentioned the Prism build-out that we have in process and the GPON rollout and the higher-bandwidth services that we'll be providing to our high-speed internet customers both on the Business and Consumer side that all of that should help drive those strategic revenue lines over the course of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
One just quick clarification and sort of strategic question.
You mentioned on the hosting side down a little bit because of FX and some lower non-recurring.
Can you quantify that how much of it was the FX and then what exactly was the impetus for the non-recurring? And then as you look out at M&amp;A going forward how should we think about your appetite for various assets and particularly landline assets? Are those as interesting to you as they were in the past or you see – looking for other opportunities? Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah so Frank the foreign exchange was $5 million during the quarter negative and that was mostly the British pound.
And then we had about $4 million of lower non-recurring sales and it was just an opportunity that we had in the first quarter of 2014 that we didn't have – with a partner that we really didn't have again in the first quarter 2015.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Frank regarding the access line-type acquisitions we are – as I've said before we're less interested in those today just because of the difficulty in having those revenue streams that would drive growth for us.
It is difficult as you know.
We believe we've assembled a really strong group of assets that form a really good foundation from which we can drive attractive growth in the months ahead and years ahead.
That being said we're always looking for opportunities to accelerate our growth and strengthen our position in the market.
We don't believe we have any gaping holes we need to fill in our product portfolio or in our key asset base.
But if opportunities arise in which we can enhance our Cloud hosting offering expand our fiber reach our fiber access or accelerate our growth profile we would certainly consider those opportunities.
As you know we've made some small acquisitions that have enhanced our hosting and Cloud capabilities and IT service capabilities in recent months.
They were small but all those fit very well strategically with where we're headed.
But any opportunity we look at would only be evaluated under our very disciplined approach acquisition process.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi guys.
This is Tudor for Mike.
Just a question on the competitive environment have you guys seen any incremental competition from Level 3 and tw telecom now they've merged? And any commentary you guys have on the hosting and managed hosting market? Michael (sic) [Tudor] this is Karen Puckett.
In terms of Level 3 I would say we continue to do very well on our high-bandwidth capability to our customers so we have not seen a slip in our win rates and continue to take share from many carriers.
So we feel good about that.
And on the second question – second question was around the hosting managed hosting I would say that the issue there is more in terms of our focus versus competition.
And clearly on the public Cloud side that continued to grow AWS Microsoft but that's not – we are not a pure play we really are focused on that broad hybrid proposal and what we see.
And if you look at the kinds of wins that we're winning from global to midsize we've got a product portfolio with our network that provides a little latency with our collocation and then with our dedicated and public Cloud that allows really any size customer to scale up or scale down.
And we can handle the enterprise grade and security capability that's required.
So when I look at our wins and when I look at our funnel – what's in our funnel it's really encouraging in terms of the opportunity we have in front of us.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi thanks for taking the questions.
Actually really just one tonight.
I was curious if you could talk a little bit about your thoughts on the OpCo/PropCo structuring or considerations for that? Jr.
- Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah Mike so this is Stewart.
We really haven't changed our view from before.
The spin-off just occurred a week or two ago.
Basically we continue to see a lot of opportunity to create value for shareholders by using the assets that we have today and would be concerned about those assets being in someone else's hands – another group of shareholders basically with different interests.
However we'll continually evaluate the best ways to try to deliver long-term shareholder value so as such we'll monitor their performance over the course of the next couple quarters or so and we'll see how much value is created there and then we'll weigh that against what we believe our potential downsides associated with using that structure.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Thank you.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Glen Post for closing marks.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Sayed.
In conclusion overall we are pleased with our solid first quarter operating and financial results.
And we are confident that the reorganization and the investments we're making continue to position us to effectively compete in the marketplace and drive revenue growth from our strategic products and services in the months and years ahead.
So thank you all for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
CenturyLink Inc.</strong> Thank you Saeed.
And good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's second quarter 2015 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations' section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
As you move to slide two you'll find our Safe Harbor language.
We'll be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for full year and third quarter 2015 as well as other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at ir.centurylink.com.
Now as you move to slide three your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
And also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Ross Garrity CenturyLink's Interim President of Global Markets.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through August 13 2015 and a webcast replay of our call will be available through August 27 2015.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of August 5 2015 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to slide four I'll now turn the call over to Glen Post.
Glen? III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Tony.
And thank you for joining our call today as we discuss our second quarter 2015 results of operations provide guidance and outlook for the second half 2015.
Before we get into the details of the quarter I want to highlight a few items that I think are important to keep in mind as we go through our results.
First on the revenue side our second quarter results were negatively affected by renegotiation of a long-term wholesale agreement that reduced strategic revenue by about $13 million for the quarter and is driving an approximately $40 million reduction on our revenue outlook for full year 2015.
This renegotiated agreement locks us into those agreements at market rates for several years giving us greater ability to grow that business and provide reciprocal access to our wholesale partners network at more attractive rates.
Now we're revising our full year revenue midpoint to $17.8 billion reflecting the impact of this wholesale issue and the full-year effect of softer-than-expected first half results.
Our revised guidance is approximately $45 million below the current consensus Street estimate of $17.85 billion.
$40 million of that is associated with the wholesale issue I was just talking about.
However the bigger issue in the second quarter was really expense.
We had a number of non-core items that drove our expenses higher in the quarter including $20 million in group insurance and pension true-up adjustments and $20 million due to higher-than-expected CPE sales.
The balance of our overage is primarily due to not hitting the operating budgets we established for business units for the quarter principally due to higher-than-anticipated employee-related cost.
We do not believe this miss reflects anything fundamental in the cost structure of our business.
Basically we just didn't get the job done here.
We have made a number of key changes and as we will discuss later we have put plans in place to address this issue in the second half of the year.
Beyond 2015 we believe we have further opportunity to continue to align the costs in our business to our revenue performance and we will discuss some of this with you later in the call.
I wanted to share this with you at the outset of the call as I want to be clear that although our second quarter results did not meet our expectations I am as confident as I have ever been that we have the assets the products the services and the opportunities required to grow our business.
Now if you will turn to slide six we believe several key priorities would drive the future growth and profitability of our business.
The first is to grow business revenues driven principally by increased market penetration of our network hosting cloud and IT solution service offerings.
With respect to our business network services we continue to see strong demand from business wholesale and government customers for high-bandwidth data services such as Ethernet MPLS and business GPON and we're investing in and aligning our operations to take greater advantage of this opportunity.
Now let me give you a few examples of what we're doing.
As of June 30 we have made fiber-based GPON available to approximately 475 000 business locations and we expect to add GPON service to another 25 000 businesses by year end.
While there is good demand for this product and given our relatively low penetration we believe we have strong upside with those investments.
We also continue to enhance our core network offerings including next-generation MPLS Ethernet (6:09) and SIP trunking services as well as plans to enable software-defined networking and network function virtualization capabilities into 43 data centers by the end of this year.
During the first half of the year we expanded our global data center footprint through expansions in six markets adding – we added 10.8 megawatts of critical capacity and that brings CenturyLink's global data center capacity to more than 185 total megawatts across our 59 data centers.
We still have upside in our existing data center investment as we had over 35% of sellable floor space available as of June 30.
Our revenues from our CenturyLink cloud platform is growing rapidly more than doubling in the last 12 months actually 138% growth in the second quarter of last year.
Our primary focus in the cloud and hosting space is to strengthen our private and dedicated hosting capabilities.
These private platforms require much of the automation and management tools you see in major public cloud platforms but our focus is on leveraging the CenturyLink cloud platform to enhance our enterprise customers' abilities to turn up and manage both network and hosted workloads in private dedicated environments including the enablement of bare-metal services later this year.
However overall we have not met our expectations in our managed hosting business.
I believe our sales force reorganization contributed to this issue.
But I believe the principal driver is that in the latter part of 2014 and early 2015 we defocused our delivery of services on our existing managed platform to focus instead on putting workloads on the CenturyLink cloud platform.
The CenturyLink cloud platform is a powerful and dynamic platform but does not yet support all of the functionality our managed hosting customers require.
The defocus away from legacy platform was a misstep that has affected our hosting results and we believe we can improve these results by refocusing on delivering services and increasing capabilities on our legacy platform while we continue to enhance the depth of CenturyLink cloud capabilities.
Finally we are also seeing good interest in our IT services and data analytics service offerings.
Our focus in this area is to provide targeted services to business customers who are underserved by the traditional larger system integrators.
Although growing rapidly this business is small in scale today but the service offerings give us a good low capital-intensive opportunity to engage at the C level and generate leads in the other parts of our business.
Now this capability to provide differentiated end-to-end solutions including IT consulting has led to a number of recent wins for CenturyLink to provide a large portion or in some cases all communications data and IT services for those customers.
Overall in our Business segment we have to improve our execution but we are seeing strength in our sales momentum.
For example second quarter 2015 sales to our enterprise customers were up 10% from first quarter 2015 and up 16% from second quarter 2014 while our commercial sales increased 27% from second quarter of 2014.
Continuing on now to slide seven and turning to the Consumer segment we continue to see good results from those markets we have deployed high broadband speeds and Prism TV services.
Specifically in our GPON markets the take rates continue to be strong and are exceeding our expectations.
And because GPON is such a great driver of demand and penetration we continue to expand our gigabit footprint ending the quarter with more than 600 000 households and 16 markets having access to gigabit speeds.
We expect to have gigabit service available to approximately 700 000 households by year-end 2015 with plans of further expansion thereafter.
We're also trialing technologies that enable up to 200 megabit over legacy copper networks.
This is in the early stages but it is showing good promise.
We also expanded our Prism TV service in the second quarter turning up service in Portland Salt Lake and Minneapolis.
We added a total of 175 000 addressable homes in the second quarter ending the quarter with over 2.6 million Prism TV addressable households.
We anticipate expanding Prism TV service to approximately 250 000 additional households during the remainder of 2015 and to reach more than 2.8 million total Prism TV addressable homes by year end.
In addition we're developing an over-the-top offering that will provide a robust competitive video offering for customers both within and outside our Prism TV market footprint.
And finally we're tightening our credit policies for our Internet-only customers to reduce sales to customers who tend to change Internet providers frequently leaving unpaid balances when they exit.
Now while we expect this change to negatively impact consumer broadband net subscriber additions through the remainder of 2015 we anticipate this adjustment will actually help improve our broadband growth in 2016 due to lower churn.
Now this move is unrelated to and will no impact on our marketing initiative for lower income consumers under CenturyLink's Internet Basics program.
We remain totally committed to offering affordable broadband access to lower-income households across our broadband service areas.
Now I want to discuss our thoughts around expense control.
As I noted above the principal issue for us this quarter was that our expenses were about $80 million more than we anticipated.
About half of that amount is attributable to not managing costs for established budgets.
We can and we will do better on this front.
For starters we're implementing plans to reduce planned operating expenses by approximately $125 million in the second half of 2015 including lowering contract labor and professional services cost a reduction in the number of employees and other expense reductions.
Now this is not simply a target.
We already have plans in place to address most of that number.
Also independent of any issue around second quarter expense earlier this year we established a dedicated team whose sole purpose is to identify and drive ongoing efficiencies into our business.
This team is reviewing every major process and every significant system to validate its business purpose and whether there is a faster better way to achieve that objective.
An early example of their work is a recent success in improving certain service intervals by more than 40% by streamlining processes.
This will lead to a better customer experience the need for fewer employees to perform that work and better margins on that business.
We believe there are other opportunities similar to this as well as the opportunity to improve efficiencies by driving additional automation and simplification into our business.
Continuing on to slide eight now.
Lastly I'd like to take a minute to discuss our philosophy around our dividend.
Given that our path to revenue and EBITDA growth is taking longer than we originally anticipated and that our cash taxes are expected to increase significantly in 2016 we understand that markets focus on the sustainability of our dividend.
So I want to be clear here.
While no company can credibly say they will never cut their dividend we see the dividend as a fundamental part of our overall value proposition to shareholders.
We believe the most financially prudent way to manage our business is to balance our investment velocity with our EBITDA performance so that we can sustain a reasonable return of cash to shareholders while positioning the company for long-term growth.
We believe we have a number of opportunities to manage our business in a way that supports the dividends as we work to capitalize on our growth prospects.
First we have made significant investments in our network and data center infrastructure over the last several years and believe we have the flexibility to lower our planned capital budget by about $200 million to approximately $2.8 billion for full year 2015 without significantly affecting our path to growth.
Also as I noted above we have instituted plans to reduce our expense outlook by $125 million in 2015.
And we have ongoing opportunities to increase efficiencies through automation simplification and increased focus.
However we believe the most important thing we can do to sustain the dividend over the long term is to continue our path to revenue and EBITDA stability and growth.
As I discussed above we believe we have very good opportunities to grow our business through driving greater penetration of products and services we enabled over the last several years as well as implementing new services and capabilities we're in the process of rolling out.
So the point I would like to leave you with is despite the wholesale issues in 2015 and lower-than-expected growth in certain of our strategic products we believe we have the ability to grow our business and to balance our pursuit of growth with our ability to sustain our dividend.
And our view is that managing our business to do this is a fundamental element of our value proposition to shareholders.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Stewart.
Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the second quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the third quarter and full year 2015 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on slide 10 I'll review some highlights from our second quarter results.
I'll be reviewing these results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
Operating revenues were $4.42 billion on a consolidated basis a 2.7% decline from second quarter 2014 operating revenues.
Core revenue defined as strategic revenue plus legacy revenue was $4.02 billion for the second quarter a decline of 2% from the year-ago period.
Strategic revenues grew 1.9% year-over-year and represent 53% of total revenues compared to 50% a year ago.
Strength in strategic products such as high-speed Internet high-bandwidth data and Prism TV continue to drive this growth as we added approximately 8 400 Prism TV customers during the second quarter.
Based on our revised go to-market strategy for consumer broadband that Glen discussed earlier we'd expect HSI net adds to be negative for the second half of the year.
We generated operating cash flow of approximately $1.62 billion for the second quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 36.8%.
Year-over-year cash expenses were up primarily due to higher employee benefits Prism TV and other costs which were partially offset by lower Customer Premise Equipment costs related to lower data integration revenues.
Free cash flow was $562 million for the quarter.
As a reminder free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest capital expenditures along with other income.
Our solid cash flows continue to provide us with the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.55.
As we've discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain noncash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Additionally under the $1 billion share repurchase program we repurchased 2.5 million shares for an investment of $90 million during the second quarter.
Under the current program started in second quarter 2014 we have repurchased over 12 million shares for approximately $460 million.
Our level of share repurchases during the second quarter was lower than prior quarters due to strategic opportunities that prevented us from being in the market for several weeks and our being in a closed window period since late in the quarter.
Having moved past those strategic opportunities we expect to continue to be opportunistic in completing this program within the 24-month period and we plan to set up a 10b5-1 program in the next few days to facilitate the purchase of shares through our third quarter earnings release date.
Moving to slide 11 and our Business segment.
In second quarter the Business segment generated $2.66 billion in operating revenues which decreased $129 million or 4.6% from the same period a year ago.
Second quarter strategic revenues for the segment declined 0.4% to $1.6 billion from second quarter 2014 driven by the declines in low bandwidth data services and wholesale repricing partially offset by the continued strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and wavelength.
We continue to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer market and we see an opportunity for further investment in the small and medium-size business space to improve market share and drive further growth.
Our legacy revenues for the segment declined 7.7% from second quarter 2014 due primarily to a continuing decline in access lines.
Total Business segment expenses increased from the year-ago period driven primarily by higher employee-related expenses.
The segment margin of 42.6% declined from 45.6% a year ago.
This decrease was primarily due to the continued decline in Business segment legacy and low bandwidth data services revenue along with the higher operating expenses described.
On slide 12 I'll provide a little more detail on the revenue mix within the Business segment.
High-bandwidth data services revenue grew $65 million or 10% year-over-year compared to second quarter 2014 driven by continued strength in sales to enterprise and government customers.
While the growth rate remains solid for high-bandwidth services it is somewhat dampened by slightly slower growth due to wholesale renegotiated pricing for Ethernet backhaul services with a large carrier customer.
Low bandwidth data services including private line continued to decline in the second quarter.
The year-over-year revenue decline of $81 million or 14% was primarily due to wholesale customers' network grooming efforts and migration to fiber-based services that we've experienced over the past year.
We anticipate this level of year-over-year decline to improve over the coming quarters as we cycle through this period of higher disconnects.
Hosting revenues declined $10 million or 3% from the prior year driven primarily by unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately $6 million customer credits and lower non-recurring revenue compared to the year ago period.
In the second quarter data integration revenues decreased approximately $44 million or 24% compared to second quarter 2014 driven by lower CPE sales.
Now turning to slide 13 Consumer generated $1.5 billion in total operating revenues which was flat with the second quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 6.9% year-over-year to $758 million driven by growth in high-speed Internet and Prism TV customers and select price increases.
Legacy revenues for the Consumer segment declined 5.8% from second quarter 2014 as access line and long distance revenue declines were partially offset by select price increases.
Operating expenses increased $16 million or 2.7% compared to the same period a year ago due to higher Prism TV cost.
Now turning to Slide 14.
For third quarter 2015 we expect operating revenues of $4.42 billion to $4.47 billion and core revenues of $4.02 billion to $4.07 billion and operating cash flow between $1.62 billion to $1.67 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.53 to $0.58.
Our anticipated sequential increase in third quarter operating revenues core revenues and operating cash flow compared to the second-quarter results is primarily driven by growth in strategic services and select price increases.
As outlined in our press release we've revised our full year 2015 guidance to reflect year-to-date results as well as updated expectations for the remainder of the year.
For full year 2015 we expect operating revenues of $17.7 billion to $17.9 billion and core revenues of $16.1 billion to $16.25 billion.
Both have been lowered reflecting first half 2015 actual results along with continued pressure in wholesale private line hosting and CPE revenues along with the wholesale repricing previously mentioned.
Operating cash flow is projected to be $6.7 billion to $6.85 billion and capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $2.8 billion or $200 million lower than our previous guidance of approximately $3 billion.
As you know on April 29 the FCC offered potential support payments to price cap carriers under Phase 2 of the Connect America Fund program and carriers have until August 27 of this year to notify the FCC of their intention to accept or forego the support in some or all of the eligible states.
CenturyLink was offered up to $514 million in support across 35 states and at this time we expect to accept at least $300 million of the available support.
We continue to evaluate the remaining support payments and expect to notify the FCC on or before the August 27 deadline.
We expect the FCC to begin distributions under the CAF 2 program in September or October of this year timeframe and expect the initial receipts to include incremental support that trues up the full-year CAF 2 support we ultimately decide to accept to the full year frozen federal USF support that we received today.
We expect minimal capital investments in 2015 related to CAF 2 due to the timing of the program but we do expect a full year of CAF 2-related capital expenditures for 2016.
We currently expect full year 2016 capital expenditures to be approximately $3 billion inclusive of CAF 2 requirements because of the significant investments we have made over the last several years that support our business plans for growth and position us to reallocate capital to CAF 2.
While any receipts from CAF 2 are not included in updated guidance I discussed earlier we do provide estimated ranges of the potential impact on third quarter and full year 2015 guidance from the CAF Phase 2 support we ultimately accept and receive.
We expect to recognize the full amount of CAF 2 support payments as other revenue in the year received.
While we understand the recent area of focus for investors has been whether CenturyLink might implement some type of REIT restructure we've elected not to pursue that structure at this time for several reasons.
These reasons include the complexity and disruption of the transaction structure the variety of opinions from investors and a lack of confidence at implementing such a structure would create real long-term shareholder value.
Let me talk a little bit about cash taxes.
In terms of cash taxes we expect 2015 cash taxes to be $25 million to $125 million after considering approximately $150 million to $250 million of 2015 taxes that we expect to pay in March of next year.
For 2016 we expect cash taxes to increase to the $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion range including the deferral of the 2015 cash taxes into 2016 that I just mentioned.
Recently the Senate Finance Committee passed a bill out of committee that would extend the provisions that expired at the end of 2014 including bonus depreciation retroactively for 2015 and through 2016.
This two-year bill was meant to push the issue beyond next year's elections.
The Finance Committee bill has not yet been considered by the full Senate.
The full House has currently extended some selective extenders similar to what they did last year.
Bonus depreciation has traditionally been one of these favored selective provisions.
Congress went into their August recess last week and the House and the Senate this week so we don't expect any action on extenders at least until the fall.
In the fall we currently expect there to be negotiations on all the extenders but given the support for bonus depreciation we believe there's a very good chance that it gets extended for at least two years through 2016.
Should bonus depreciation get implemented only for 2015 we would expect our 2015 cash taxes to be approximately $25 million to $125 million and 2016 cash taxes between $550 million and $650 million after considering approximately $225 million to $300 million of 2016 taxes that we would expect to pay in March of 2017.
If bonus depreciation is extended through 2016 we expect our cash taxes would decrease by an additional $50 million to $150 million for 2016.
So bonus depreciation can have a tremendous effect on our free cash flow.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you sir.
Our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I guess we kind of gathered from the Analyst Day it was going be a tough quarter.
So thanks Glen for kind of giving us that frank rundown.
I guess Stewart the way we're now set up with kind of in the middle of the third quarter the revenue and EBITDA guidance you're giving us kind of in a worst case scenario says that we're going to see flat revenues and rising margins and at the midpoint of the guidance it suggests we're going to see some pretty strong quarter-on-quarter acceleration in revenues and EBITDA growth heading into 2016.
And I guess that that's going to be the big focus for kind of Glen's point about execution and such.
So if we go to that page 12 which is really I think on the business services side and we look at that chart can you kind of walk us through the pieces parts that are going to drive what you seem to think at this stage can still be strong revenue growth kind of heading into the back part of the year and into next? Thanks.
Yeah.
So David part of what's going happen is one we have adjusted some of our wholesale pricing.
We think that we'll start picking up some orders from one of the major carriers that we've not really been picking up over the last four months or so.
Additionally we had a one-time item in the second quarter of about $13 million that we think will improve over the next quarter or two.
And if you look at our EBITDA from the standpoint of third quarter and fourth quarter particularly in the fourth quarter we expect to have implemented some of the steps that Glen mentioned.
And our expenses actually from third quarter to fourth quarter come down about $100 million or so.
So that provides the higher margins that you'll see on the back half of the year.
Additionally we expect the second half of the year to continue to have good growth from the standpoint of our high-speed Internet revenue as well as private line too which is on the wholesale side.
So thanks Stewart.
And then I guess the second question is just on the CAF 2 piece.
So I guess if we take out $100 million from the kind of I guess $75 million from the midpoint of the EBITDA guidance we're reiterating the free cash flow guide.
So it sounds like with the CAF funding actually EBITDA and free cash flow estimates will probably end up going up.
But there's still this large gap that it seems you need to analyze over the next few weeks.
I guess the key issue for people is going be is the threshold for accepting this CAF money to make sure that it's accretive to the cash flow profile of the company rather than dilutive and so that's the number that you're trying to figure out? Yeah.
That's what we're working through David.
And really trying to look at the effects on 2016 and 2017 of the CAF 2 monies and we really are studying very hard the cost associated with building the network.
And we think if we're able to make some progress there we can (34:05) CAF 2 monies.
Basically the minimum that we outlined in the release today really applies to about 24 states or so or a couple of dozen states.
And there are 11 other states that we're having to study a little bit harder in terms of where we are with respect to the network and how much the build-out would cost associated with those.
So we could be slightly cash flow dilutive but I mean that is what we're trying to solve for.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
You have targeted 2015 as the year of revenue stability.
You're not talking about getting to revenue stability long term.
Is this something where we think we can see revenue stability in 2016? Or is it going to take longer than that? And then on the dividend I appreciate the comments around how you're thinking about that and the color on the tax payments.
But when you cut your dividend a couple of years ago you did target or talk about bringing your payout ratio below 60%.
So how are you thinking about payout ratios I guess on a normalized cash taxes now? And if the dividend payout rises above that level how do you square those factors? Thanks.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Simon it's Glen.
I'll take the first question regarding revenue stability.
First of all as always we'll provide guidance for 2016 during our fourth quarter earnings call.
But based on the sales funnels we're seeing today the growth we're seeing in our funnels the expansion of our GPON and Prism footprint and capabilities the expected improvement in our cloud and hosting and IT services products I really believe we're going see revenue stability in 2016 what we're seeing right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Simon in terms of the dividend payout ratio of course if we do get bonus depreciation the dividend payout ratio will be approximately 60% or so in 2016 from what we're seeing today.
If we don't get bonus depreciation really there it kind of depends on how much of the CAF 2 monies that we take and what we're able to do with our capital budget.
But we probably for that one year 2016 would be in the 90% range or so but that includes the tax payments of $150 million or so – $100 million $150 million that we said we would be deferring to 2016 that really relate to 2015.
So we have a $100 million pension payment scheduled in there as well that's not actually required.
So we feel like we have some levers that we can pull to and of course our dividend payout ratio this year is only about 45% or so.
So we have plenty of room to pay the cash taxes early if we want to get that out of 2016.
So I mean we really feel pretty comfortable that there are levers that we can pull to get our dividend payout ratio where it needs to be to where there's not a problem with it in 2016.
And again assuming we get bonus depreciation even for one year it brings the 2016 dividend payout ratio down to around 60% range.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
A couple of things.
First on the CapEx reduction.
Can you expand on what's changing this year? Or can you cut without really impacting the business at this point? And does the $3 billion guidance assume that that follows through in 2016 or are you sort of pushing things out? Thanks.
Yeah.
Some of the projects that we're looking at that we've actually cut really relate to what we cut that falls in the revenue enablement bucket.
Probably about a third of the cut is there.
And these are projects that are really more network related that give us extra capacity and we can go a little bit longer for that and related to that.
And so we don't – we may need to make some of those next year but we think we can really pretty safely cut that.
So about a third of the $200 million cut is network related.
About a third is success based too which really just reflects the – although we're making our sales for and bookings for the second quarter were 15% ahead of where they were in the first quarter they're still really behind where we originally expected them to be when we set our capital budget for 2015.
And then another third of the $200 million really comes from furniture equipment vehicles and things like that that we just think we can – not have to do.
And some of that really relates to some of the other changes that we're making that Glen mentioned.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Phil I just want to be clear on that.
The $200 million we're cutting this year we do not expect to have to add that to capital budget next year.
We won't be doing that so just to be clear on that.
All right.
Thanks guys.
And again the $3 billion next year really includes CAF 2.
And that's why it would go from like $2.8 billion to $3 billion.
I mean frankly we're hopeful that next year we could get our capital budget down potentially in the $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion range exclusive of CAF 2.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
So on the buyback can you remind us what the current authorization is and any thought that the board might accelerate that given your confidence to revenue stability and given where the shares are? And then can you be just a little bit more specific on the cost items? What exactly are you focused on and is any of this head count related? And how that's going to come out as quickly as you've outlined it? Yes so Frank so the board authorized in February 2014 $1 billion program.
I think I mentioned we're about $540 million or so through that.
And it expires in essentially May of 2016 and we would expect to complete the program – our current plans are to complete the program by the end.
As I mentioned we expect to be back in the market next week and set up a 10b5-1 plan to start the process of repurchasing the remaining shares.
With respect to the cuts about two-thirds or so of the amounts are really related to contract labor and professional services as well as some employee cost and employee benefits.
So that's where about two-thirds of it is.
The other third is actually down in – we think network expense as well as property taxes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Glen can you just give a little more detail on I think you mentioned credit policy changes.
Just trying to get a sense for if you're seeing a significant uptick in involuntary churn or is that inside the Prism footprint where you're getting people installed and then sort of abandoning equipment? And then I guess secondly in giving some thought to your comments regarding over-the-top Prism TV probably is not as profitable as offering obviously straight broadband although it might have churn reducing benefits and we're seeing AT&amp;T de-emphasizing the U-verse platform.
Does it make sense to sort of move away from Prism TV and focus more on developing the over-the-top product and then getting just higher speed data to the homes? Thanks.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mike.
On the credit policy change that's mostly around this broadband and HSI.
We ought to be a little bit out on Prism but more to HSI.
We're seeing a lot of churn there.
No pay churn is hitting us really more than previously.
So we are – that's really the – it's around high-speed data primarily.
We're seeing that issue where we're trying to address it.
Okay.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And regarding the Prism TV and over-the-top certainly the programming costs are high on Prism TV.
However if you look at the all-in opportunity there we bring 52% of the new customers to CenturyLink 57% are triple play customers and about 97% of those customers have a high-speed data connection.
So overall those are profitable customers for us and we're pleased to get them – we're working hard on the programming costs as our whole industry is we think it's really an area that we have to change over time.
But we think it is a good product for us and driving revenue and cash flows.
The over-the-top is certainly an opportunity.
We have some new products coming out over-the-top that we think will be very profitable and we'll include those with our Prism product as well as in areas we don't have Prism and we think there's opportunity there.
You're right.
There are higher margins with that over-the-top product.
So we're looking forward to offering that.
Glen just as a quick follow-up I know in the past you've talked about the sort of time lag or timeframe between revenue stability and EBITDA stability has that changed in your mind at all? III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think we still think – the 18 month is still that we still think that we'll be looking at that 18 month timeframe give or take a few months but that's still our target.
That has not changed.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Mike one other comment on the over-the-top it's going to be available to many more households than our Prism TV is available to because you don't need the bandwidth to be able to use the over-the-top product that you need to use the Prism product.
That's certainly – the cost to connect I assume is going to be quite a bit lower based upon at least the comments from DISH and Sling TV? Yes.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
Question on the margins.
It looks like the guidance for the full year is about 38% but you're going to exit the year at a higher level given the expense cuts that you talked about.
How should we think about margins going into 2016? Where do you think that can get to before we see the EBITDA stability some time in 2018? And second question on the wholesale private line which you mentioned that it's still a drag on revenue growth can you quantify what percent of the revenues come from that? And do you see any impact from maybe wireless backhaul that offsets some of that pressure going forward? So Batya on the margins you're right about 38%.
And as we look out I mean if we can get to revenue stability in 2016 as Glen mentioned and basically continue to control our expenses we're hopeful that the margins next year wouldn't drop that much from where they are this year.
And your second question was? Wholesale private line mix.
Yeah.
So basically we're seeing upgrades from the carriers in terms of wireless backhaul.
It's been a little slower than we expected.
And I'll tell you Bill's here.
Bill Cheek's here.
I'm going to get him to answer the question for you Batya.
Yeah.
Batya Bill Cheek.
Wholesale revenues is about – and if you think about wireless backhaul I think was your question is about 4% roughly of our total company revenues so it's really relatively small percentage.
Okay.
Great.
And then maybe just another question on CAF.
If you decide to take about $300 million from the new fund how much of the existing $350 million of frozen support will still be available for you? So with the states where we – if all we take is basically are the two dozen states or so that results in about $300 million there would be about $100 million of frozen support that we would continue to receive.
At this point it just depends on how long it takes the FCC to write the rules for the auction process and put that in place and actually have the auctions.
We believe the earliest that would be would be towards the end of 2016 but it could very well go over into 2017 and then we would also have the ability to be able to participate in those auctions as well.
So about $100 million of frozen support that we will continue to receive in addition to the $300 million of CAF 2 funds.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your final question for today comes from Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks guys.
It seems like the revenue guidance is kind of calling for that this is the bottom quarterly and should increase the next two quarters.
Just so I understand that or do you think it could kind of step down on a quarterly basis again next year.
And then on just maybe you can walk through the puts and takes on the dividend payout ratio.
I guess if we get out to 2017 on more of a normalized cash tax rate or normalized tax rate and all the puts and changes that you are seeing in terms of the margins what do you think the dividend payout ratio will be at that time and how confident are you in that dividend payout ratio? 2017 the cash taxes would go up somewhat if bonus depreciation is enacted for 2015 and 2016 and not 2017 then basically cash taxes would go up then but we still believe that we would be okay and we would be hopeful at that point if we stabilize revenue we would be stabilizing EBITDA as well.
So hopefully that wouldn't be an issue.
And you are correct in terms of revenue increasing basically we expect our strategic revenue to grow somewhat in the third quarter and the fourth quarter and in effect offset the declines that we might see from the legacy services.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And last should we think of CAF as more of a one time or temporary or do you think it could be kind of more – should we think of it as more ongoing and might be offset when the six year is up that it might continue longer term.
Thanks.
Well we really – we do believe there will be another program after this program is complete.
We are not really sure what the program – we don't know what the program will be of course but we think that there may be some opportunity to continue to get some funding to help serve and provide broadband service to rural America.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Showing no further questions at this time I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
III - President Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Saeed.
As we called out today we are not satisfied with our results for the quarter and we have plans in place to correct that trajectory but overall I really believe we have the best portfolio of assets we've ever had at CenturyLink.
Now it's really about execution.
We are taking these assets and leveraging them to drive revenue growth EBITDA growth and shareholder value over time.
And while though there certainly will be some quarterly ups and downs with some bumps in the road along the way CenturyLink's long-term trajectory in my view is as positive and bright as it's ever been.
So thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question and answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
CenturyLink Inc.</strong> Thank you Sayed and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's third quarter 2015 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.CenturyLink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for question and answer.
On slide 2 you will find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for fourth quarter 2015 and other outlooks on our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
We ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at ir.CenturyLink.com.
Now turning to slide 3 your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer and also available during the question and answer portion of today's call will be Ross Garrity CenturyLink's Interim President of Global Markets.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through November 12 2015 and the webcast replay of our call will be available through November 26 2015.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of November 4 2015 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
And as we turn to slide 4 I'll now turn the call over to Glen Post.
Glen? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Tony and thank you for joining our call today as we discuss our third quarter 2015 results of operations and provide guidance and outlook for the remainder of 2015.
Beginning on slide 5 as you know CenturyLink continues our transition to becoming a leading provider of integrated IP-enabled network hosting and IT services.
This transition brings both opportunities and challenges as we work to find ways to provide our customers the products and services that they need in today's environment.
Faster broadband speeds and hosting solutions are at the top of many of our customers' list of needs.
We're deploying GPON to consumer and business customers.
We're expanding Prism TV availability and providing competitive enhancements to our network hosting and cloud services to meet these demands.
In the third quarter we saw several positive signs that we're making progress in this transition.
First the Consumer segment had a solid quarter with year-over-year revenue growth of 1.2%.
As we continue to deploy GPON and Prism TV to more locations throughout our footprint we're attracting more high-valued customers.
And we have increased our ARPU through the continued launch of GPON higher value bundle sales and select pricing increases.
Second the business sales organization realignment implemented earlier this year is now proving effective as new sales to business customers for the third quarter increased year over year and sequentially.
The third quarter marks the second straight quarter of accelerating sales with particular strength in global and enterprise.
Additionally in our business sector we exited third quarter with a strong business sales funnel including an increased number of large deal opportunities.
You will recall last quarter we stated that our operating expenses got ahead of our budgets and that we were committed to addressing that during the last half of the year.
We're delivering on that commitment as we have taken steps to reduce planned operating expenses by approximately $125 million in the second half of 2015.
We achieved a portion of this expense reduction relative to plan in the third quarter but the majority of the benefit will be realized in the fourth quarter of this year.
Also we are well on track to lower our full-year 2015 planned capital budget by about $200 million which will result in full-year capital expenditures of about $2.8 billion.
We're encouraged by these areas where we're seeing positive momentum.
However the overall revenues for third quarter were below our expectations primarily due to softness in hosting and long-distance service revenues along with higher credits and other one-time items in the quarter.
If you normalize for the one-time items that total about $20 million to $25 million operating and core revenues were both at the low end of our quarterly guidance range.
Although our third quarter revenue results did not meet our expectations I'm very confident that we have the assets the products and the opportunities required to grow our business in the months ahead.
Now turning to slide 6.
We believe several key priorities will drive the future growth and profitability of our business.
The first is to grow business revenues driven principally by increased market penetration of our network hosting cloud and IT solution service offerings.
With respect to our business network service offerings we continue to see strong demand from business wholesale and government customers for high-bandwidth data services such as Ethernet MPLS and business GPON.
And we're investing in aligning our business to take advantage of this opportunity.
This quarter we saw continued strength in our sales momentum.
Third quarter 2015 retail network sales were up approximately 15% from second quarter 2015 and up approximately 25% from the third quarter of 2014.
Additionally we exited the quarter with a strong business sales funnel.
The sales funnel has continued to strengthen during fourth quarter and October sales results were the highest of the year.
I want to give you a few examples of what we're doing to drive higher sales over time.
As of September 30 we had fiber to the prem including GPON available to about 490 000 business locations.
There is good demand for this product and given our relatively low penetration we believe we have strong upside with those investments.
We also continue to enhance other core network offerings including next-generation MPLS and SIP trunking services and to add new capabilities to our managed office product suite to provide differentiated simplicity for small to medium business customers looking for fully outsourced network customer prem equipment cloud and business application solutions.
We're also seeing increased interest in our managed network service offerings that is customers who look to us not only to provide their connectivity but also to manage their NDN network environment to include monitoring security and CPE.
Additionally we have a major focus on leveraging our cloud capabilities to enhance our enterprise customers' abilities to turn up and manage both network and hosted workloads in private and dedicated environments.
Over the last few months we have refocused on our legacy cloud and managed hosting products as part of our hybrid IT strategy.
We recently rolled out an enhancement of our legacy cloud product that seamlessly supports SAP workloads and we have seen strong customer interest in this product.
We're seeing growing interest in managed hosting legacy cloud products as our managed hosting funnel is up almost 60% since August.
This funnel growth is being driven by cross-selling across our customer base including state government education and a broad range of Fortune 500 and mid-size companies.
Finally we're also seeing good interest in our IT services and data analytics service offerings.
Our focus in this area is to provide targeted services to business customers who are underserved by the traditional larger systems integrators.
Although growing rapidly this business is small in scale today generating only about $50 million in revenue this year but these service offerings give us a good low-capital intensive opportunity to engage at the CXO level and generate leads in the other parts of our business.
This capability to provide differentiated end-to-end solutions including IT consulting has led to a number of recent wins for CenturyLink to provide a large portion or all communications data and IT services for those customers.
Now continuing on to slide 7 and turning to the Consumer segment.
We continue to see good results in those markets where we have deployed higher broadband speeds and Prism TV services.
Specifically in our markets with fiber to the prem including GPON the take rates continue to be strong and are exceeding our expectations.
And because GPON is such a great driver of demand and penetration we continue to expand our gigabit footprint ending the quarter more than 780 000 households and 16 markets that are now fiber-to-the-prem capable.
We're also trialing technologies that enable up to 200 megabits over legacy copper networks.
Now this is in the early stages but it is showing good promise.
We also expanded our Prism TV service to new and existing markets adding a total of 360 000 addressable homes in the third quarter.
We now have nearly 3 million Prism TV addressable homes which exceeds our expansion target for the year as we pulled forward some 2016 expansion plans into this year.
In addition we're developing an over-the-top platform and finalizing content agreements to enable a robust and competitive video offering for customers both within and outside our Prism TV market footprint.
And finally we are focusing on driving improved operating efficiency through a number of methods including network simplification and rationalization that should improve our end-to-end provisioning time and help drive standardization.
We continue our focus on improving back office processes and systems in an effort to enhance the customer experience and realize expense efficiencies in running the business.
We mentioned last quarter that we had reduced the provisioning time for one of our major products by approximately 40%.
And since that time we've implementing process and system changes to improve the provisioning time for another major product by 30% to 40%.
We'll continue to enhance our efforts in this area as we evolve our back-office systems to a more automated approach in the delivery of CenturyLink's products and services.
In addition we continue to drive network virtualization through the expansion of our software-defined network or SDN product and network function virtualization NFV capabilities.
These enhancements allow customers to remotely establish and manage key network services such as virtual firewalls CDN and virtual wide area network services.
Our goal is to enable this capability to 43 data centers and approximately 3.1 million businesses by year end.
We have also laid the foundation to migrate our internal IT operations to our cloud platform as we continue to invest in IT virtualization.
We are continuing to use a cloud-first approach to rapidly deploy the same innovative platform infrastructure and Software-as-a-Service solutions across our internal IT operations that we're selling to our cloud and IT hosting customers.
This effort is expected to reduce our IT cost and improve security and drive other efficiencies for us.
Lastly we continue to make progress in simplifying our processes and streamlining our workflow.
Our network inventory consolidation effort which we have mentioned before continues to progress well.
Additionally we have implemented an automated sales tool that increased our seller efficiency with anywhere anytime access to our back-office systems.
This initiative has also provided our real-time tracking of opportunities and associated results.
Continuing on to slide 8 I'd also like to briefly comment on the strategic alternative process for our data centers and colocation business operations that we announced today.
CenturyLink's board of directors and management team regularly review the company's strategy and consider a wide range of opportunities regarding our business and operations to create value for shareholders.
We believe we have the right strategy in combining our network service offerings with the delivery of managed IT and cloud-based services and our enterprise customers are responding well to our managed services offerings.
We expect colocation services will continue to be a service our customers will look for us for but we do not necessarily believe we have to own the data center assets to be effective in delivery of those services.
Therefore we have engaged financial advisers and we've initiated a process to explore the strategic options for our data center assets and operations which includes 59 datacenters in the U.S.
Asia and Europe with more than 185 megawatts of power across 2.6 million square feet of raised floor capacity.
The review process will involve a full range of options including but not limited to a partnership or a joint venture a sale of all or a portion of the data centers as well as potentially keeping these assets and operations as part of CenturyLink's portfolio.
This announcement continues our strategy of proactive portfolio management to drive focus on strategic businesses where we can achieve profitable growth and deliver attractive shareholder value.
The process has just commenced and we have not set a specific timetable for a decision but we will be updating you on this process as appropriate in the weeks and months ahead.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Stewart for a discussion of our financial results and guidance.
Stewart? Thank you Glen.
I'll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the third quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of fourth quarter 2015 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on slide 10 I'll review some highlights from our third quarter results.
I'll be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
Operating revenues were $4.55 billion on a consolidated basis a 0.9% increase from third quarter 2014 operating revenues.
The increase primarily due to the incremental $158 million revenue impact from the acceptance and recognition of CAF phase II funds in the quarter.
Our core revenue defined as strategic revenue plus legacy revenue was $3.99 billion for the third quarter a decline of 2.1% from the year-ago period.
Strategic revenues grew 0.7% year over year primarily driven by strength in strategic products such as high-speed Internet high-bandwidth data and Prism TV.
In the third quarter we added approximately 11 300 Prism TV customers.
High-speed Internet customers declined about 37 000 partially the result of tightening our credit and collection processes.
As a result of these actions high-speed Internet and Prism TV net subscriber growth was negatively impacted.
However these adjustments had little impact on revenue and should actually help improve our broadband growth in 2016 due to lower churn.
We generated operating cash flow of approximately $1.78 billion for the third quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 39.1%.
Cash expenses were nearly flat year over year primarily due to lower customer premise equipment costs related to lower data integration revenues which were partially offset by higher employee benefit expenses Prism TV and other costs.
Cash expenses declined $23 million from the second quarter 2015 as we took measures to reduce planned expenses in the second half of the year.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures along with other income was $747 million for the quarter.
Our solid cash flows continued to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.70.
As we've discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted earnings per share excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Additionally under the $1 billion share repurchase program we repurchased 9.8 million shares for an investment of $263 million during the quarter.
Under the current program started in the second quarter of 2014 we have repurchased 27.5 million shares through November 3 and have approximately $133 million remaining under the repurchase program.
Moving to slide 11 and our Business segment.
In third quarter Business segment generated $2.64 billion in operating revenues which decreased $137 million or 4.9% from the same period a year ago.
Third quarter strategic revenues for the segment decreased 2.1% to $1.6 billion from third quarter a year ago driven by the declines in low-bandwidth data services wholesale repricing and one-time items partially offset by continued strength in high-bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 7.1% from third quarter 2014 due primarily to a continuing decline in access lines and lower long-distance revenues.
Total Business segment expenses decreased from the year-ago period driven primarily by lower CPE cost partially offset by higher employee-related expenses.
The segment margin of 41.5% declined from 44.1% a year ago.
This decrease was primarily due to the continued decline in Business segment legacy and low-bandwidth data services revenues.
On slide 12 I'll provide a little more detail on the revenue mix within the Business segment.
Our high-bandwidth data services revenue grew $44 million or 6.7% year over year compared to third quarter 2014 driven by continued strength in sales to enterprise and governmental customers.
While the growth rate remained solid for high-bandwidth services it was somewhat dampened by renegotiated pricing for Ethernet backhaul services with a large wholesale data customer as we discussed with you last quarter.
High-bandwidth data services revenue for retail network customers excluding wholesale grew approximately 8.6% year over year.
Our low-bandwidth data services including private line continued to decline in the third quarter.
The year-over-year decline of $68 million or 11.8% was primarily due to wholesale customers' continued network grooming efforts and the migration to fiber-based services that we've experienced over the past year.
We anticipate this level of year-over-year decline to improve over the coming quarters as we cycle through this period of higher disconnects.
Hosting revenues declined $7 million or 2.1% from the prior year driven primarily by higher credit reserves including those related to service outages and an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately $6 million which were partially offset by higher nonrecurring revenue.
In the third quarter data integration revenues decreased approximately $32 million or 17% compared to third quarter 2014 driven by lower CPE sales and maintenance revenues.
And again these revenues are fairly low margin.
Now turning to slide 13 Consumer generated $1.15 billion in total operating revenues an increase of $18 million or 1.2% from third quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 7.2% year over year to $763 million driven by year-over-year growth in high-speed Internet and Prism TV customers and higher average revenue per customer through select price increases and higher-value bundles.
Legacy revenues for the Consumer segment declined only 4.2% from third quarter 2014 as access line and long-distance revenue declines were partially offset by select price increases.
Operating expenses increased $10 million or 1.6% compared to the same period a year ago due to higher Prism TV costs.
Now turning to slide 14.
For fourth quarter 2015 we expect operating revenues of $4.4 billion to $4.45 billion core revenues of $3.97 billion to $4.02 billion and operating cash flow between $1.72 billion and $1.77 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.62 to $0.67.
Our anticipated sequential decrease in fourth quarter operating revenues and operating cash flow compared to third quarter results is primarily driven by the retroactive recognition of CAF-II funds in the third quarter.
That concludes our prepared remarks for the day.
So at this time I'll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you sir.
Our first question comes from Michael Rollins.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was curious if you'd talk a little bit more about the thought process of pursuing strategic alternatives for the data center business.
Firstly if you dispose of that would that include the cloud and hosting business or would it be colocation only? Second could you talk to us about how much capital you've put into that business to-date including the M&amp;A? And then third could you give us an EBITDA figure for that business in terms of the portion that you're pursuing these alternatives for? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mike.
First of all we're not ready to talk about the financials at this point.
Obviously we do disclose the revenue for this business is about $600 million annually today.
And the sale of these assets do not include our cloud and hosting operations strictly the data center operations the colo business itself.
That's what we're selling or looking to sell looking at alternatives looking at what the best use of these or management of these assets will be.
So that's our view right now.
We're just starting this process.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And can you just refresh our memory with how much of the assets that you physically own maybe versus those that you lease from third parties? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Mike most of the assets are leased from third parties.
We own several of the data center properties but just guessing offhand probably less than 10 or so.
Some of the old Qwest data center assets are primarily the ones that we own.
Most of the others are leased.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Last question.
As you thought about pursuing strategic alternatives for this part of your business did you evaluate pursuing strategic alternatives for any other parts of your business? Or is that something that you may consider in the future? And thanks again for answering all those questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mike.
We continue to look at all of our assets and look at the opportunities for them.
And these are the ones we believe today are the ones we should take a look at.
We may look at others in the future.
But right now this is the part of the business that we believe that is not necessarily important for us to own.
So this is why we're looking at these assets as far as the strategic alternatives are concerned.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line's open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I guess first just a follow-up on that.
If this $600 million colo business generates a 35% margin and it were to trade at the multiple at which Windstream recently announced their deal that'd be about $3 billion.
And then if you took about half of that and got back to the midpoint of your leverage range you'd still have $1.5 billion.
What would be your thought process in terms of priorities for allocating that money? 10% of the equity market cap it obviously potentially creates a lot of options that'd be interesting to discuss.
Second if you could just give us more specifically of the $125 million cost cuts what was in the third quarter? And obviously then we could do the math on the fourth quarter.
And then the last piece would be Stewart just on those slides on 11 and 12 I think that there's a big debate around a company like a CenturyLink and in particular CenturyLink is your revenues are coming down you've had a tough time figuring out what's going to happen on revenue.
We're having a tough time.
But even tougher has been trying to line up the margins with these different businesses to try to figure out what's important.
If CPE comes down it's not important but if legacy voice does it is.
Can you put margins around these different buckets so that we could do the math and figure out as we predict what's happening to revenue decline what's going to happen to margin decline? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> David this is Glen.
I'll answer the first question and ask Stewart to address the others.
We realize there are a lot of good options for us to use the proceeds from this if we were to end up selling these assets or leverage them in a way to create cash for the company.
But we're not ready to talk about those.
They're pretty obvious some of the options we have.
But we believe the opportunity is there and we continue to work with our board over the next few months to decide how to best utilize those proceeds.
Stewart? Yeah so in terms of the cost cuts basically we did a little bit better than we had expected in the third quarter.
But we expect fourth quarter costs to be down in the neighborhood of $100 million which is the same amount we gave last quarter between third and fourth.
And part of that is seasonal just related to the seasonality of the business.
And the rest of it really relates to CPE and some of the measures that we took to reduce our staff.
So again probably about another $100 million decline from third quarter sequentially in terms of cash operating expenses.
In terms of the revenue trends and forecasting of the margins based on our increasing sales funnel and the improving sales trend over the last couple quarters and our improving sales to revenue or order to cash we hope to reach – we expect to reach revenue stability during the last half of 2016 so we believe the pressure we're seeing the last half of this year in hosting and wholesale will carry forward into the first half of 2016 which will make the year-over-year revenue comps during that period somewhat challenging.
Again remember we had the wholesale renegotiation of a contract too with a large customer that will cycle through after second quarter of next year.
But unlike previous years we don't think that next year we will be dependent on significant revenue growth from new initiatives to hit the revenue target in the second half of next year.
In terms of margins the margins in the Consumer business have been relatively flat and we would hope to keep the margins there relatively flat to slightly down as we'll still see the cycling through of legacy revenue as we drop legacy revenue and replace it with the more strategic revenues such as our Prism TV product.
On the Business side basically the margin's there.
We'd expect to see some continued deterioration there due to really the same reasons associated with the loss of legacy revenue and replacing it with the strategic revenues at a lower margin.
But we've also done a good job there of controlling our expenses as well which will hopefully mitigate some of the margin decline that we would otherwise see.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski from Barclays.
Your line's open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Just following up on some of the questions around the strategic alternatives that you're currently pursuing.
Can you provide us with a bit more color in terms of why do you believe this is the opportune time right now to monetize sort of the colocation services business? I would suspect that given the demand environment there is healthy demand for those types of services.
So would love to hear sort of your thought process on why this is the opportune time.
And I recognize that thinking about sort of specifics around what you could do with that capital building upon David's prior question is probably a bit early stage right now but as you look at your portfolio of assets today how do you feel about the portfolio assets in terms of the growth opportunities? Because clearly within the portfolio there are some key growth opportunities.
And how we should think about whether or not there's a potential opportunity to bolt on additional assets or anything along those lines in order to accelerate growth toward your strategic services.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Amir first of all as you mentioned as far as why now is an opportune time.
Valuations are obviously good right now.
They can always change but we know the market's good.
But that's just one factor.
For us to really grow the business the colo business it requires really more CapEx than we've been willing to put in the business.
We said that up-front that we weren't going to invest heavily in the data centers that we felt they were a synergistic asset that we could grow with the rest of our business.
However with the valuations with the – we think our cash flow maybe could be used for investments that can drive higher returns basically and drive better shareholder value.
So that's why we're looking at it.
And we don't think it's – as I mentioned earlier – that it's crucial for us to own these assets in order to provide a full solution package for our customers.
So that's why we're looking at it now.
And as far as the asset portfolio we believe we have a strong portfolio of assets.
We can leverage to drive future growth.
We don't feel like we are compelled to go out and acquire additional assets or companies.
However we do believe there are some potential acquisitions inorganic opportunities there that could drive growth.
Whatever we do we'll continue to utilize our very disciplined approach to acquisitions and be sure that we believe they're – investments can really drive long-term shareholder value.
So they're fiber assets assets that could perhaps drive top line growth that would be synergistic to our other offerings such as our managed cloud offerings our other network services that we believe we can grow in the months ahead.
So those are the types of opportunities for acquiring assets we'd be looking at.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much and one follow-up if I may.
In terms of your operations you folks had transitioned a bit of your strategy with respect to your sales force in recent quarters.
Would love to get an update in terms of how that transition has occurred and in terms of the progress that you've made from that perspective.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it was a pretty bumpy pride.
We said up front it was not going to be – we were going to have some issues with that.
It lasted a little longer than we thought.
However if you look at our sales results this last quarter especially the latter part of the second quarter and going into third quarter and especially into fourth quarter we're seeing the benefits of those changes really come to fruition.
So we believe it is – we're proving that it was the right move.
And we're hoping – there are some adjustments we'll make to really fine tune it but we believe these were positive changes that we're going to see benefit from in the months and years ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Your line's open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
You touched on the revenue growth outlook.
Can you talk a little bit about the competitive environment with cable? The broadband market was a little bit soft or broadband adds were a little bit soft.
What's going on there – churn gross adds? What can you do to return to growth there? And also on the – maybe talk a little bit about Prism.
We were talking earlier today on one of the calls about cord cutting by the Millennials and the move to over the top skinny bundles et cetera.
Any thoughts on some of those offerings? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm going to ask Ross Garrity to talk about that for a minute with you guys.
Okay.
Yeah just in the – hi it's nice to meet you.
In the Consumer market the competitive environment has remained fairly stable but we're seeing another round of speed increases coming from sort of cable providers from the cable providers.
But we continue to see success in areas where we've got greater speeds and we remain challenged in areas without the higher speeds.
We are still continuing to see strong penetration velocity especially in our GPON markets.
In our small to medium business over the last three quarters we've seen our investments increase distribution and business GPON in advanced capabilities such as our managed office significantly improved our market share trends versus the cable providers.
And we expect to see improving sales and market share trends in the segment certainly going into 2016.
So I think the outlook is fairly positive.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Simon I might add that the change that we made in the credit policies and really collections drove probably about 17 000 or so of the 37 000 decline we saw in high-speed Internet customers during the quarter.
We are going to focus on really trying to penetrate the areas where we have rolled out GPON.
We're also looking at other ways to improve our speeds – continually improve our speeds over copper.
So I think that we'll be able to remain competitive and hopefully become more competitive actually than we are today.
We're also working on an over-the-top offering that we'll be trialing in the third quarter that we hope to roll out on a trial basis in two or three markets latter part of this year and early next year that we think will help us with the Millennials and be a lower-cost option from the standpoint of the way we roll it out than our Prism product is today.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Can you address the slowdown in high-speed retail business revenues that we saw? I think it grew 8.6% versus a trend of double-digit growth.
And what are you doing to accelerate that growth again? And second question on the CapEx.
You pulled forward some of the spending into third quarter and you maintained the guide for the year.
How should we think about potentially different CapEx buckets for next year? So Batya the slowdown in high-speed internet revenues we actually had some pretty large federal items that flowed through in the first quarter and the second quarter that didn't reoccur in the third quarter.
So I think that's part of that.
But part of what we're doing there too on high-speed internet and Ethernet really is really pushing to reduce our provisioning periods like Glen spoke about earlier during his part.
In terms of CapEx for 2016 we're currently thinking about $3 billion which will probably include $350 million to $400 million of CapEx associated with the rollout of the CAF-II.
And just to follow up this is for 2016? 2016 yes.
CapEx.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Can you talk a little bit about what's some other things it might take to get the strategic growth back up? And any kind of contracts or other things you can give to suggest that this has kind of changed? And then can you walk us through how you're going to be deploying the CAF-II funds when we'll start to see the construction for that? And when do you expect to see revenue? And any chance that those deployments might also include video? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Frank I have a few comments and let Stewart add in for strategic growth back up.
If you look at the second half sales growth and funnel expansion it is creating some improving trends headed into 2016 so we think that's a sign.
If you look at our sales just the sales I mentioned earlier in the funnel we think that's really a positive.
We're seeing improvement in the front line sales productivity on the Business side.
We're seeing higher participation rates or folks hitting our quotas basically.
We're seeing growth in our channel partners and alliances there.
We expect further growth there in the months ahead.
We're also expanding our wholesale product to include HSI and VoIP Voice over IP.
So we expect to enhance our wholesale sales there and revenue.
And then finally just the continued expansion of GPON and Prism.
We've increased our GPON market significantly this year up to 780 000 households passed.
And just that expansion there along with the business GPON up to about 490 000 businesses now those give us a lot of potential going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And on the CAF-II deployment? Yeah Frank with respect to the CAF-II deployment we would expect to really hit the ground running here in late 2015 to 2016 to get some of the construction done and get the living units that are easiest to get to first such that by the end of 2016 we hope to be upwards of 20% or maybe even a little more in terms of the 1.2 million living units passed.
And with the over-the-top product that we're going to roll out it would be available to CAF-II households where we have 10 down and one up.
And some of those households will have more bandwidth than that too if they're closer to the node.
So yes the product would be available there so would have a video product available.
Inc.</span></strong> Any color on the over-the-top product? Is it just a smaller feature set or is it a streaming package like Sling? Or what are you thinking about? Why don't we ask Aamir Hussain to address that for you? Yeah we are actually looking at two different type of products.
One is a skinny bundle with local linear and premium.
And it will have upsell opportunity for a kid's package entertainment package and we are looking at multiple options there.
The second product that we are looking to do is in our franchise markets where we have Prism rights just taking the same content and offering it on an over-the-top content along with an aggregation of other video services which are used by our customers today.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Maybe just a quick comment.
I know Glen you were talking about the consumer credit on the broadband side driving some share loss.
I would have thought I guess that broadband was nondiscretionary.
I guess you don't have a sense for where those folks are going.
But can you just explain how much more runway we have on that consumer credit tightening piece? And then second part thinking about the Consumer high-speed internet revenues do you have any sense or you can break down for us between the fiber-to-the-node served homes versus copper-based DSL? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mike.
Firstly on the consumer credit a lot of folks are just switching back and forth carriers.
A lot of that's taking place there.
And a lot of nonpaid – we just tightened up on those folks who were not paying basically and just switching back and forth.
So we think we're through – we know we're through the majority of that but there could be – we'll continue to see the impact of this going forward but the majority of what caused the initial hit I think we're through most of that.
And on the breakdown between fiber to the node and non-fiber to the node we really don't break that out.
But I can tell you Mike that our best penetration really in the market's where we have the higher speeds.
And that's why we're focused on investing more in access in 2016 to provide higher speeds for our customers such that it will give us a better opportunity to gain them as a customer.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James Moorman from D.
A.
Davidson.
Your line's open.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks.
Could you just give us kind of your thoughts on the expectations for a bonus depreciation? Has anything changed in terms of you outlook for cash taxes for next year? Yes so really the outlook for cash taxes is the same as it was last quarter.
Basically our most current information is that we really believe bonus depreciation is squarely in the radar of congressional leaders.
The House Ways and Means Committee cleared legislation making 50% bonus depreciation part of the permanent tax code and the Senate Finance Committee included a two-year extension of 50% bonus retroactive 2015 and 2016 with their extenders package.
So we believe the extenders package is going to move along and we really think that the Senate staff has been really outspoken to our people in terms of getting bonus depreciation this year.
So we feel more comfortable that we'll have bonus depreciation in 2015 and 2016 than we did last quarter.
And we felt pretty good about it then.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Saber from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
Related to the data center strategic review I just wanted to ask around your leverage target which has been three times for some time.
Would this potentially change that target? And the only reason I ask is that if you were to receive a large amount of cash you have very little prepayable debt.
So I just wanted to ask around the leverage target in general.
Thanks.
So David that's one of the things we'll have to work through as we get further into the process but our target is really still about three times.
We have said we'll allow that to drift up just if EBITDA deteriorates and we see EBITDA turning around out to ultimately bring the leverage back down.
So we wouldn't really be held by a rating more or less in terms of keeping our EBITDA within a ratings range but we'll just determine once we get closer to the execution of the opportunity of the data centers as to where we might go with the proceeds there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Sayed.
Overall I'll just say I believe we have the best portfolio of assets we've ever had at the company.
Now it's really about execution.
We're taking these assets leveraging and positioning them to drive future revenue growth EBITDA growth and shareholder value.
While there will be quarterly ups and downs CenturyLink's long-term trajectory in my view is as positive as it's ever been.
So look forward to working with you all in the months ahead.
Thank you for joining our call today and I look forward to speaking with you at the fourth quarter call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to CenturyLink's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Saeed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's fourth quarter 2015 results released earlier this afternoon.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
As you move to Slide 2 you will find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for first quarter and full year 2016 and other outlooks on our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us in our forward-looking statements.
Moving to Slide 3 we ask that you also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at ir.centurylink.com.
Now moving to Slide 4 your host for today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen today will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through February 18 2016 and the webcast replay of our call will be available through March 3 2016.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of February 10 2016 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
Moving now to Slide 5 I will now turn the call over to Glen Post.
Glen? Thank you Tony and thank you for joining our call today as we discuss our third quarter 2015 results of operations and provide guidance and outlook for the remainder of 2015.
Thank you Tony and thank you for joining our call today to discuss our fourth quarter results make a few remarks about 2015 and discussed 2016 objectives and our guidance.
Beginning on Slide 6 2015 was really a year of two very different halves for CenturyLink's.
In the first half our sales and revenue trends were softer than we had anticipated.
Entering the year during the 2014 as part of our ongoing review of our business we had identified an opportunity to improve the structure of our sales force and we begin to implement this change in late 2014.
Our sales organization realignment was more complex.
It took longer than anticipated in mid-year operating expenses were out of alignment with our revenue outlook for the remainder of 2015.
We began to take aggressive corrective action in the second half the year and the benefits of the realignment along with the new leadership began to take hold.
We improved our overall sales performance and we increased our sales funnel opportunities and enhanced our revenue trends.
At the same time we were also successful in taking cost out of the business.
We reduced planned operating expenses in the second half of 2015 but more than $125 million than the $125 million target we had set in August.
These actions helped us deliver very strong results in the fourth quarter revenues cash flows and adjusted earnings per share all exceeded expectations for the quarter.
As we will highlight in more detail later in the call we saw good performance from our consumer segment during the quarter.
Growth in Prism TV customers along with higher average revenue per customer drove year-over-year consumer revenue growth.
Also for fourth-quarter business high bandwidth data services grew approximately 9% year-over-year.
Overall we achieved significant improvements in the second half 2015 compared to the first half of the year.
Continuing on now to Slide 7 we also continue to focus on driving higher speeds across our network as we enter 2015 with 940 000 GPON addressable households and 490 000 GPON addressable businesses and we provided more than 30% of our service area addressable units with speeds of 40 megabits or higher.
We believe that is the speed that in the marketplace is sufficient to address most of our customers' actual needs.
Additionally we completed our $1 billion share repurchase authorization in early December and we returned a total of $2 billion to CenturyLink's shareholders in 2015 through dividends and share repurchases.
As you know in early November we had announced we were beginning a strategic review process of our data centers and colocation business.
This decision is made as part of our continued efforts to proactively manage our portfolio of assets to best position the Company to compete to achieve profitable growth and drive our shareholder value.
We made good progress with process.
Since our November announcement we have established a separate data center/colocation organization including a separate management team.
We are also nearly complete with carve-out [ph] financial statements for our data centers in collation business to provide potential acquirers our partners and we spoke to a number of interested parties who expressed interest in all options ranging from an outright purchase of our data centers and co-lo business a partnership and/or a joint venture.
This is an ongoing process that could result in any one of these outcomes including the potential sale of a portion of or all of our data center business.
Also as we have said we could ultimately choose to retain these assets and related operations.
As we outlined in November we believe in the macro trends of the data center location industry and the importance of the service in our hybrid IP solutions but we do not believe we must own the colocation facilities to provide the full range of services our customer needs to manage variety of functions.
We expect to fully engage interested parties within the next two weeks or so.
Continuing now to Slide 8 as we enter 2016 we thought it might be useful to share with you a broader view of how we think about our business and operational focus for 2016 and beyond.
First I think it is important that we declare for our sales while we are here what we are trying to accomplish and what we are trying to accomplish as an organization.
For us that purpose is to improve the lives of our customers by connecting them to the digital world whether it is providing connections or services on top of their connection using the power of the digital world to improve our customers' lives and businesses is really what we are all about.
We expect to accomplish this purpose through a two-part mutually reinforcing mission.
First we provide our customers a gateway to the digital world by enabling fast highly reliable broadband connections that are automated and easy-to-use.
We also have significant opportunity to take a leadership position on this front and our principle focus going forward will be to provide our customers with very best network experience.
Second we will complement our strong access position by deploying less capital-intensive investments higher growth solutions to deliver our customers a full range of technology-focused services such as managed network and hosting cloud IP services and video along with over-the-top applications and content and we believe this approach will allow us to deliver the full range of services.
Our customers are also allowing us to prioritize capital to improve the network services offerings are at the heart of our customer relationships.
Continuing on Slide 9 looking at our purpose from a financial point of view our focus is to create long-term shareholder value through both revenue growth and strong cash flow generation.
I want to emphasize this last point.
The focus of our business is to drive long-term free cash flow generation that enables us continue to invest in our business and sustain our strong dividend and we will prioritize our investments and operational initiatives to support that outcome.
We believe we can accomplish our goals through focus on three key operational initiatives.
First we will maximize market penetration of our network and adjacent services to drive growth.
To accomplish this we plan to maximize penetration in areas where we have invested in and enabled broadband capabilities.
We will also continue to focus our investments on enabling fast reliable broadband connectivity and we will enable other technology-focused solution such as managed network hosting cloud IP services and video using capital-efficient solutions and partnerships.
Our second key initiative is to create exceptional customer experiences.
As part of this effort we plan to simplify our products our processes and our systems and we will continue our evolution to a single orchestration layer that automates the end-to-end customer experience enable to access the complementary services for multiple providers.
Now this will take time but we have a roadmap in place to significantly improve our customer experience over the next couple of years.
Finally we deploy a discipline approach to our operating capital investments to deliver profitable growth first by investing more capital to enable high bandwidth network connectivity and pursuing capital line investment approaches for our complementary adjacent services.
Allocating capital based on the best returns on investments in opportunities.
Key strategic objectives will be key; we also expect to gain revenue and operating expense efficiencies and improved cash from operations through more aggressive systems consolidation automation and process improvement.
We have a clear strategic direction and we believe by focusing on these operational areas we will be able to build CenturyLink's strong foundation and deliver value for both our customers and our shareholders.
While we are focus on specific actions to drive sales revenue growth of our strategic product and service in 2016 and beyond we expect to drive further penetration of our consumer business and GPON footprint of over 900 000 households almost 500 000 businesses and have 3 million households enabled for Prism TV service and we expect to continue to expand high bandwidth data services GPON and Prism enabling further revenue upside opportunities.
We also believe we can continue sales momentum from the second half of 2015 and drive increased sales productivity through better go-to-market alignment leveraging products specialist and enabling additional sales and sales performance tools and we plan to focus on winning large deals through dedicated teams and system integration and value-added resellers.
We expanded our distribution partners were key to this hitting our goals and driving us revenue.
One final item I am sure you saw a release this afternoon announcing our new President of Sales and Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer.
We look forward to Dean Douglas and Bill Hurley joining our team next week and I am confident they will be key contributors to helping us achieve the actions I have just discussed.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Stewart for discussion of our financial results and liquidity position as well as the guidance.
Stewart? Thank you Glen.
Over the next few minutes I will review the financial results for the fourth quarter provide an overview of the first quarter and full year 2016 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and conclude my remarks with a discussion of CenturyLink's liquidity position.
Regarding our guidance we are pleased that our full year expectations for 2016 are in line or better than current average analyst estimates.
Now moving to Slide 11 I will review a few highlights from our fourth quarter results.
Please note that I will be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in our earnings release and associated financial schedules.
As Glen mentioned earlier we achieved strong results for the fourth quarter and operating revenues were $4.48 billion on a consolidated basis a nine-tenths of 1% increase from fourth quarter 2014 operating revenues.
This increase was primarily driven by the increase in high-cost support revenues of approximately $60 million due to the recognition of CAF Phase 2 support during the fourth quarter 2015 along with strength in high bandwidth data services and consumer-strategic revenues.
Core revenue defined as strategic revenue plus legacy revenue was $4.03 billion for the fourth quarter a decline of only 0.5% from the year ago period.
Strategic revenues grew 3% year-over-year primarily driven by strength in strategic products including high speed data services high speed Internet and Prism TV.
In the fourth quarter we added approximately 16 000 Prism TV customers while high speed Internet customers declined about 22 000 during the quarter partially as a result of tighter credit standards implemented in mid-year 2015.
We generated operating cash flow of approximately $1.82 billion for the fourth quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 40.6%.
Cash expenses for the fourth quarter declined to $72 million year-over-year primarily due to lower employee-related costs.
On a sequential quarter basis cash expenses declined to $115 million or 4.1% from the third quarter of 2015.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures along with other income was $591 million for the quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.80.
As we have discussed in priorities earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain non-cash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Additionally as Glenn mentioned earlier we repurchased more than 10 million shares for an investment of nearly $280 million during the fourth quarter which completed the $1 billion share repurchase program.
Moving to Slide 12 our business segment in fourth-quarter the business segment generated $2.66 billion in operating revenues which decrease $43 million or 1.6% from the same period a year ago.
Fourth quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased 1.4% to $1.6 billion from fourth-quarter 2014 driven by continued strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS and Ethernet partially offset by the declines in low bandwidth data services and wholesale re-pricing.
Legacy revenues for the segment declined 6.2% from fourth quarter 2014 due primarily to continuing decline in access lines and lower long-distance revenues.
Total business segment expenses decrease from the year ago period driven primarily by lower employee-related expenses and CPE costs.
Our segment margin was 44.1% which was an increase from 43.6% a year ago.
Now turning to Slide 13 consumer generated $1.51 billion in total operating revenues an increase of $19 million or 1.3% from fourth-quarter 2014.
Strategic revenues in this segment grew 6.3% year-over-year to $773 million driven by year-over-year growth in high-speed Internet and Prism TV revenues.
Legacy revenues for the consumer segment declined only 3.4% from fourth-quarter 2014 as access line and long-distance revenue declines were partially offset by selected price increases.
Operating expenses decreased $17 million or 2.8% compared to the same period a year ago.
Now turning to Slide 14 for first quarter 2015 we expect operating revenues of $4.40 billion to $4.45 billion core revenues of $3.95 billion to $4 billion and operating cash flow between $1.66 billion and $1.72 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to rise from $0.67 to $0.73.
Our anticipated sequential decrease in first quarter operating revenues compared to fourth quarter 2015 is primarily due to declines in legacy hosting and low bandwidth data services more than offsetting the anticipated growth in revenues from high bandwidth data services.
We expect first quarter 2016 operating cash flow to be lower than fourth quarter 2015 primarily driven by the decline in revenues I just mentioned along with higher costs Those higher costs include approximately $35 million from one-time favorable expense items in the fourth quarter and in first quarter $25 million of higher payroll taxes and $20 million related to higher marketing cost.
For full-year 2016 we expect operating revenues of $17.55 billion to $17.8 billion and core revenues of $17.75 to $16 billion.
Both are expected to be slightly lower compared to full-year 2015 expected legacy revenue declines more than offsetting anticipated increases in the level of strategic revenue growth.
Our operating cash flow for the full-year 2016 is expected to be $6.6 billion to $6.8 billion lower than full-year 2015 primarily driven by the continued decline in legacy and low bandwidth data revenues.
The Company anticipates lower depreciation and amortization expense for full-year 2016 compared to full-year 2015 and adjusted diluted EPS for full year 2016 is projected to be $2.50 to $2.70.
The expected lower full-year operating cash flow for 2016 along with higher cash income taxes and anticipated 2016 capital expenditures of $3 billion are expected to lower free cash flow to $1.8 billion to $2 billion.
Now turning to Slide 15 since we recently issued $235 million of debt to refinance upcoming maturities we thought we would provide you with our plans for our maturities over the remainder of the year.
Our total debt maturities for 2016 are approximately $1.4 billion.
As I mentioned in January we completed a $235 million debt issuance with 7% Qwest Corp 40-year notes that will be used to refinance an upcoming May 1<sup>st</sup> maturity.
That primarily leaves us with a [ph] debt maturity of a little less than $1.2 billion on June 1<sup>st</sup>.
We expect to be opportunistic in the coming months in refinancing some or all of that debt as well at the CenturyLink parent level.
It is important to note that with approximately $400 million drawn as of the end of 2015 on our $2 billion credit facility we have the capacity to handle the June 1 maturity if needed.
Additionally since we completed our $1 billion share repurchase program in early December we can also use available free cash flow for a portion of the June 1 maturity if necessary.
As is indicated by our 2016 guidance we expect $600 million to $800 million of free cash flow after the cash dividends which results in our dividend payout ratio in the low-to-mid 60% range in 2016 which is very sustainable so we are confident that our solid cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long-term shareholder value.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today so at this time I will ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Barden from Bank of America.
Hey guys.
Thanks a lot for taking the question.
I guess a couple of questions if I could.
For Stewart just first number one as we can kind of look at the 2016 guide obviously last year we had issue with kind of overestimating how the year was going to play out so I was wondering if you could kind of talk a little about what the base case expectations that you have modeled out for the economy and sales force ramp and whether your incoming Head of Revenue Mr.
Douglas has bought into the expectations and kind of your comfort level of achievement albeit number one.
Second would be on the cash tax outlook and kind of the update on bonus tax depreciation what's embedded in that free cash flow guidance? Then and last one if I could would just be on kind of the metered data opportunity.
I think we have been seeing a lot of the cable companies experimenting with data caps and metering higher-end usage.
It seems like the SEC is not pushing back on this and it feels like it could be a big opportunity for telcos to if nothing else price underneath the cable umbrella and start to raise rates from high-end users.
I was wondering if that is something that you guys are looking at as an opportunity and where it stands.
Thanks.
Yes.
David in terms of 2016 revenue guidance I believe we do feel more comfortable with the revenue guidance that we have this year from the guidance that we provided in '15.
We think we had some things in place from a sale standpoint our funnel continues to build and look good.
We have a number of big deals that are in the funnel and hopefully we can get closure with some of those.
We are also working on the provisioning the order-to-cash to get the sales that the salespeople make provision and billing quicker and hope to be able to get that done of course over the next few months to where we can reduce our cycle times there that will help.
The other focus that we have is churn reduction so we are working there to try to keep the customers we have and try to make some of the price declines in credits that we have been issuing smaller so we are hopeful that we are attacking revenue not just from a sale standpoint this year but also from the standpoint of reducing churn as well as getting the orders and to cash quicker.
We also have a big deal team that we have talked about before that was launched to pursue larger opportunities.
In terms of the guidance and the macroeconomic issues I mean we have basically have assumed that the economy stays about like it is at this point so no real significant changes there.
Glen I will let you talk about Dean.
Yes.
We had discussions with Dean and with Bill Hurley and at high-level they feel good about the over projecting sales.
Obviously they have not had the opportunity to getting the details but I know we have had discussions with them and they believe we have upside in a lot of areas but they have not had a chance to really to getting the details of our projections at this point.
From the standpoint of so just to kind of close out the revenue we had some revenue growth this year in the fourth quarter.
We did in first quarter of 2015.
We would expect probably second quarter 2016 we would reach a little bit of revenue growth but in terms we are going to be so close just in terms of projecting that we are going to get stability and growth on a sequential basis quarter-after-quarter.
It is really not possible for us to do that now but we think that with the three-pronged approach that we have to really driving revenue keeping the revenue we have getting customers to billing quicker it will pay dividends for us from the standpoint of getting some real momentum in terms of our revenue growth.
In terms of cash taxes our cash taxes for 2015 were $63 million.
Based on the operating income guidance that we provided for 2016 we would expect cash taxes to be approximately $400 million at the low-end of guidance and about $600 million at the high-end of guidance.
As we say with the free cash flow that that results and after the operating income you result in the dividend payout ratio being in the low to mid 60s.
I might add that dividend payout ratio in 2017 at this point we would say we would be coming in the low to mid 70s because we think that cash taxes will increase somewhat in 2017 just because of the impact of bonus depreciation will be less as it matures more.
Then David regarding the metered data plans; we are considering that for second half of the year.
We think it is important and our competition is using the metered plans today and we think that explore those starts and trials later this year is our expectation.
Great.
All right thanks you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
You know building upon the prior question around sort of thinking about the trajectory of the business from a top-line perspective how should we think about some of the opportunities that you have in terms of reducing the cost in the business? Specifically if you do find yourself in a position where you can get sort of stable top-line growth can we pull forward the expectation around the ability to return to EBITDA growth and operating income growth of the business? Yes.
I mean we still think that we can hopefully after we get to some level of revenues' continued stability and growth that we can get to EBITDA stability within 12 months to 18 months thereafter but again as I have said many times before the EBITDA stability is really dependent upon continued movement continued improvement and sales of our strategic products over time and lessening the decline in the rate of legacy revenue that we receive and then also the third leg of that stool basically is to continue to control our operating expenses to get to EBITDA stability.
I might add t that the simplification of our processes the automation of a lot of the end-to-end process is a single platform orchestration platform I mentioned earlier those are weighed with - we could take significant cost out of the business as well as create a much better customer experience so those areas we are looking at for future cost control.
Thank you very much.
Then if I may follow-up on the exploration of the strategic alternatives for the data centers side it sounds as though based on your prepared comments moving forward are well on that front.
Can you talk to us about the interest perhaps you may or may not have seen in the marketplace there have been a number of folks who have either expressed a goal to do something similar or at least have been rumored to potentially be doing something similar so I would like to hear sort of compare and contrast what you are hearing in the market in terms of receptivity would be very helpful.
Obviously we are aware of this.
There is an activity in the market with folks with data centers colocation businesses out there possibly for sale but I can tell you this we are seeing a significant amount of interest right now.
You do not know - get the negotiations which we hope stock gets in a couple of weeks that process but we are seeing interest from strategic buyers as well as potential buyers and asking a lot of questions running in the data room want to start talking with us about the opportunities.
Again you never know but the interest level is high right now.
Thank you very much.
It is very helpful.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks very much.
The buyback program is over.
I understand you are waiting for the results of the data center but can you just talk more broadly about your leverage target and given the credit environment adhere how are you thinking about where you want that leverage to be over time in terms of how much of a surface free cash and how much of a data center sales might go to maintaining a sort of a three-turns would you want to bring that down under three turns over time? On broadband can you just update us? You gave us some good stats on the speeds and the build-out there.
How are you thinking about returning broadband to growth we are seeing pretty tough quarter so far for the telcos relative to K while we touched on that in the earlier question but you are obviously getting the speeds up there.
What can you do on the channel side marketing side to turn that back to growth and maybe you can just leave in gap- to progress into that.
Thank you.
Yes.
Simon so the leverage targets I mean we are still goal of about three times but what we said is that know as the EBITDA declined somewhat we were basically willing to go over three times if we saw that EBITDA over time was going to turn around and could bring us back to three times or lower so you we will look at the proceeds from the sale of the data.
At this point we do not have any goal to reduce our leverage below three times so I mean we still think that with what we have done with our debt maturities.
We have plenty of liquidity and generate plenty of free cash flow and we will wait and see what happens with respect to the data center sale and then we will decide from there what we do more or less with the $600 million to $800 million of free cash flow that we expect to have in '16 after the payment of the dividend as well as the cash associated with the potential sales of the data center.
Regarding the broadband first of all we believe that we have real opportunity to take advantage of the investments we have made in recent months in GPON and Prism we passed now about 950 000 homes with GPON 1 gig speeds to 780 000 of those homes.
That is 17% increase from the third quarter in terms of GPON homes passed.
We grew our Prism markets with GPON capabilities from 600 000 to 700 000 in fourth quarter and we are seeing really strong take rates where we have GPON in these homes and businesses so that is a really positive for us.
We average about right now just in this early on we just released that we got about 15% penetration in our GPON markets of the GPON products so it has grown and that is just as you know we rolled out this past year.
We are real pleased with that and that opportunity also gives also if you look at our market share data.
Our market share in a lot of these cities we are in is very low.
We think we have upside there going in these businesses and we are also attach or connecting more of the MDUs and [ph] within our markets that we believe give us a lot of opportunity.
We have had very little market share there.
More than 30% of our households that we serve are in MDUs so that is a real market opportunity there as well that we are focused on so there are some things we are doing we believe can really turn around the broadband growth.
Great.
That is something remained positive adds for 2016 is it too early to say? I think we will.
Even if it is little early but I believe we are on a path of a positive adds in '16.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Two questions.
First on the high speed data growth side you saw some acceleration in the quarter.
Can you provide us split for retail versus wholesale and do you expect that trend to continue in the first half of the year.
Then on CapEx can you provide some color on where that $3 billion will go in terms of different buckets and how should we think about incremental fiber deployments and any trends you could highlight in terms of cost of deployment coming down and potentially accelerating that trend.
Thank you.
Batya in terms of the CapEx color basically in 2016 a little bit over $2 billion or so of the capital budget albeit what we called revenue in hand enablement and support.
Probably of that approximately $2 billion basically broadband enablement in connection and capacity is about $1.2 or so and then the Ethernet MPLS enablement is probably about $600 million or so.
You know we are going to expect to continue to spend capital to range higher hire and invest in the access part of our business to basically be able to through either fiber or other technologies over time be able to drive higher speeds for our customers.
Then Batya on the breakdown between wholesale and retail we do not have that here but we can follow-up Tony if someone could follow with him - we just do not have it right here.
Right.
In terms of the trends going forward would you still expect that to grow at high-single digits? Yes.
As far as the - broadband growth yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ana Goshko from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I think you laid out pretty well what the plan is for addressing the 2016 bond maturity particularly with the state of the credit markets right now but wondering one is there an interest rate level at which you in your mind it becomes prohibited to refinance that on an unsecured basis and have you thought about moving into the secured market where you would likely get a cost of capital.
Ana we have looked at that and we are continuing to look at it some and I guess we have not made really any final decisions but at this point I mean we would prefer to stay unsecured.
Even if it might cost us a little bit more.
Again we can carry we can really be opportunistic with this next with little less than $1.2 billion that we need to raise to refinance the Embarq maturity because again we have about $1.6 availability on the credit facility.
Additionally our highest free cash flow quarter of the year is the first quarter because basically our CapEx somewhat gets off to a little bit of slow start.
We just have more free cash flow in the first quarter.
We probably generate over 50% of our free cash flow that we are going to generate in the first quarter really.
We had a lot of options and we will look at secured options but at this point we are not leaning in that direction.
Okay.
Great.
Not to say we would not go there over time but… Okay.
Thank you.
Then also I think I heard this correctly so any decision on further shareholder returns beyond the current dividend? Did you say that you are going to wait until you get through the data center process and potentially through this Embarq maturity as well before you decide what to do with access free cash flow in the year? Yes.
Certainly through the Embarq maturity and in all likelihood until we get much more color in terms of what is going to happen with the data center business.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much for that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Two if I could.
Just first a housekeeping item can you talk about why depreciation may fall in 2016? Then secondly if you go back I think it was a few weeks ago the Company filed a lengthy 8-K describing some changes to the Board and pointed to some maybe differences in perspective.
Can you provide us with more contexts maybe to what happened and maybe some of the strategic issues that the Company may or may not be wrestling with in the boardroom? Thanks.
Yes.
I will the first one Mike on depreciation.
Basically we would expect depreciation and amortization to be down somewhere between $200 million and $250 million 2016 versus 2015.
About $75 million of that decline it is really a decline in the customer list amortization that we have that was really part of the purchase price adjustments related to primarily the Qwest acquisition and the Embarq acquisition as well.
The depreciation rate the decline of the depreciation really is due to some of our assets becoming fully depreciated and retired so basically that decline in depreciation that we have that did occurred in 2015 is offset to a certain degree by the $3 billion that we expect in depreciation in the $3 million we expect to invest in 2016 in our plan so really about $100 million to $150 million decline really related to just the depreciation part.
Mike regarding Joe Zimmel's departure of course Joe made a lot of contributions to our Company.
12 years he was here we appreciated that and wish him very best.
Understanding the 8-K that we filed really in connection with and review of the Board - the nominating and governance committee recommended and the Board also concluded that Joe should not stand pre-election at the 2016 meeting.
The Board felt the changed would lead to an environment with improved productivity constructive dialogue.
It was really it just that Board chemistry issues with this was and no time Joe raised any issue about the Company's accounting our financial reporting either leading up to following his resignation.
Also Joe did not raise concerns about the Company's strategy or succession planning prior to his resignation.
At least not that I am aware of - his principle complain related the process the Board used to reach the conclusion that he would not be included on the 2016 slate.
I think obviously he might comments to and there is a lot details in our 8-K we filed in January 25<sup>th</sup> and you can read all of that but that really contains exactly what happened in my view and includes Joe comments as well.
If I could just follow-up with one another question do you keep tallies internally of the proportion of your footprint where you have a comparable or better speed for broadband that you can mark to your customers and definitely that you can share with us in terms of what that might look like? I realize you shared us earlier some stats on GPON and some of the builds there but more broadly do you have a sense of just how you fully stack up against the cable competitor? Firstly yes.
We have that information and we used it continually.
I do not have it here.
It is skill test for us.
Total overall percentages and speeds but we have in marketing department sales we use that continually have to identify where we build additional capacity how we go to market with advertising and all that pricing all that comes into play but that is a very broader part of our analysis.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Glen I just you still have another though I guess on the economies.
I think somebody asked earlier but any feedback you are getting from your bigger business customers with respect to that is skittishness or nervousness on the part of making decision or slowing down decision-making.
Then the second part just on the involuntary churn in the high-speed adds I am just trying to get a sense for what it is that is going on there and perhaps how long that might persist? Thanks.
First of all Mike on the customers' prospective economy anybody connected with - the income connected with the oil and gas business is skittish right now obviously for good reason so we are seeing some of that in oil and gas sector.
Of course it is not a major vertical.
We do have customers there but it has been a major article for us.
I found that we are not seeing a lot of concerns out there right now.
We see what happens the next few months but right now we were already seeing long decision-making timeframes by businesses the last year or so so that is not a change and we are still seeing that but we are not getting major negative feedback from our customers at this point in time also the oil and gas sector.
Okay.
Involuntary churn on - we hope we worked in most of that fourth quarter so we think those changes we may last year on the credit requirements and the higher prices the price increases that we last we think we - most of that so hopefully we will see the first quarter that can be in the first quarter.
Were those customers Glen folks that had chosen some other providers and just decided to stop paying you without disconnecting or was there something else we should be thinking about? It was that and just folks who never play they are just never playing.
They come in and we just gives service for three four months and both - they want to pay and it works we put in differ requirements.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Great.
Thank you.
Can you describe a little bit of the product and system simplifications that you are looking at and maybe how long that will take and ultimately the cost there.
Then on the strategic review with the data center what kind of economic benefits do you expect to see from some sort of a partnership arrangement.
I asked that partly because I have never actually seen one work so I am curious what you think how that might work versus just now right sale? Thank you.
Hi Frank.
Aamir Hussain is here our Chief Technology Officer.
I will address the systems.
It is a major undertaking for us.
I can tell you this we are already seeing benefits but it will be a continual effort over next two years two-and-a-half really.
Amir you want to… Yes.
Both product and system simplifications are only driven by a rationalization of the products and networks and the system and applications we have.
The end goal is to reduce provisioning cycle and get revenue on the door as soon as possible and we have multiple streams.
We are looking at products we are looking at processes and we are looking at systems.
Refined and used our portal platforms and consolidate multiple portals providing greater customers experience.
At the end of the day the whole lead to cash process is being looked at and every process within those processes are being combined to create a great experience for the customer.
Again such us your systems your processes getting revenue in the door and enhancements into our current systems and processes that new technologies to be able to provide better opportunities to our sales and operations folks to provide great customers experience.
Regarding the economic benefits on a joint venture of the data centers has been - what you mean by joint venture there is a lot different approaches to a joint venture but the main thing that we would like to be able to do is continue to have wholesale opportunity within the centers that we own today.
We would like to avoid the high level of capital expenditures required.
We think we can drive higher returns by investing those dollars in network and other areas so that is really our view of that.
Not only that the valuations are significant right now and we think it is a good time.
We are going to consider this now for time to do it.
We think it is a good business.
It is good the margins are good we are growing this business some so it is not we are running from it it is just we think the ownership of the assets we do not think we have to own those assets so that is really areas we are looking at all the alternatives.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Arun Seshadri from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
The first one I just want to make sure I heard you right.
I think you said your preference was to refinance the Embarq notes at the parent level.
I just want to understand the rationale for that and whether you thought about sort of doing it refinancing at the Embarq level of sales or potentially at sort of intermediate wholesale as well? Yes.
Basically we have been trying to - since all the acquisitions over the years to simplify our capital structure somewhat and frankly really we have looked at the potential or refinancing out at the Embarq level.
It creates another public entity that we have to do the public filings on and all and we just think it is not worth the effort of all of that as well as the rate differentials it is not that significant.
We have for the last five years or so been working to refinance debt at Qwest Corp at Qwest Corp the debt matures there because it is still investment grade.
Everything else is the parent's non-investment growth so we have been moving everything up there and we think - I mean we had grew really good rates and good execution over the year so I mean as I mentioned earlier we will see over time if we need to go into more a secured product to get a better rates at this time we do not think we need to but we will just monitor that over time.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
As far as the cash taxes for 2017 I think you said that it would be higher than 2016 but you have sort of a preliminary number in which tune something in the 700-plus million range? If you look at pre-tax at book income possibly somewhere in the range of maybe 45% to 55% would be the effective cash tax but it is early add and we will have to see.
I mean that I am sure will change some over the year as we get closer to '17 but it will go up some so the benefit of bonus depreciation to us over the life of the program is a little bit over a $1 billion and we figure we got $250 million of the benefit in '15 an probably $450 million of the benefit in '16 so we have got and we will have by the end of '16 achieved about $700 million of the little bit over $1 billion deferral that we expect to get during the life of the bonus depreciations legislation and that assumes our CapEx stays at about the same level as it is today.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Saber from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go head.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a couple of quick ones in looking at the supplemental info it looks like there was a sizable working capital outflow more than 500 million.
Just curious if that was not anomaly and if we could expect that to perhaps reverse in future periods.
Then secondly just back on the Embarq maturity for second Stewart you mentioned perhaps using their revolver as a backstop so I guess I just wanted to ask if that would be use only if the market were closed or would you perhaps look to use that even if there the rates environment is still not favorable to you? The decline in working capital was basically on October 1 maturity of debt that we paid off so that is why our working capital declined.
In terms of the credit facility we have said we are going to keep about $1 billion of capacity on the credit facility just for things like this.
Times we are in the markets or not where we want to issues with the free cash flow that we will have in 2016 even beyond the dividend payment of $600 million to $800 million I mean we are opposed to keep it all the credit facility for some time.
If we need to in order to get about a rate and to get past let the high yield markets feel themselves somewhat.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Brett Feldman from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Just a quick housekeeping question I was hoping you could give us an update on the net funding status of the pension at the end of the year and whether you anticipate making any cash contributions in 2016? Thanks.
Yes.
Now we will file our K.
Yes the 2016 was our target so we will file our K in a couple of weeks and all the pitch and disclose the pages and pages of pitching it and hope that disclosure will be in there so I really do not have that at this point in time.
Do you have a preliminary estimate to where you need to make a cash contribution or is that still being work out? We do not need to make the cash contribution.
We have made voluntary cash contributions of a $100 million in 2015 and I think we did the same thing in 2014.
We have not made the decision.
We do not need to make a decision on '16 until September before we file our tax returns so but at this point nothing is actually required.
Thank you.
This concludes our questions-and-answers session for today.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remark.
Thank you Saeed.
We discussed with you last quarter that we believe that our investment in network and adjacent businesses along with our organizational changes and cost control efforts were beginning to take effect and produce results.
We believe we can now clear see that progress in our fourth quarter results and we plan to continue to leverage and positions our assets help drive future revenue growth EBITDA growth and shareholder value.
Although our results may not be perfectly on in here in the months ahead I am confident that we are on a path to long-term growth and value creation so thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with in the weeks ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to CenturyLink's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss CenturyLink's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results released earlier this afternoon.
Before we begin let me apologize for the delay in the start of the call today.
However we had a pretty severe ice storm move through the area in the last 24 hours closing a number of bridges overpasses and roadways.
As a result we’re normally all in the room together doing this call from one location but we are not today.
So bear with us as the handoffs may not be quite as crisp as they normally are.
And thank you for your patients as we get started today.
The slide presentation we will be reviewing during the prepared remarks portion of today's call is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at ir.centurylink.com.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks today we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
On slide two you will find our Safe Harbor language.
We will be making certain forward-looking statements today particularly as they pertain to guidance for first quarter 2014 full year 2014 and other outlooks in our business.
We ask that you review our disclosure found on this slide as well as in our press release and in our SEC filings which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected by us and our forward-looking statements.
You’ll also note that our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon and the slide presentation and remarks made during this call contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available in our earnings release and on our website at www.centurylink.com.
Now turning to slide three your host on today's call is Glen Post Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink.
Joining Glen will be Stewart Ewing CenturyLink's Chief Financial Officer; and also available during the question-and-answer period of today's call will be Karen Puckett CenturyLink's Chief Operating Officer; Bill Cheek President of our Wholesale Operations and Jeff Von Deylen President of CenturyLink Technology Solutions formerly known as Savvis.
Our call today will be available for telephone replay through February 19 2014 and the webcast replay through March 5 2014.
Anyone listening to a taped or webcast replay or reading a written transcript of this call should note that all information presented is current only as of February 12 2014 and should be considered valid only as of this date regardless of the date heard or viewed.
As we move to slide four I’ll now turn the call over to your host today Glen Post.
Glen?  Thank you Tony and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I’m one of the ones who is iced in.
Working from my home so we’ll try to make this as smooth as we can Stewart and Karen and Jeff.
If you will turn to slide five I’d like to start off by recapping our performance for 2013.
During the year we continued to effectively execute our objectives and make investments that we believe will lead to revenue stability.
For the full year 2013 total revenue declined by 1.5% compared to 2012.
In 2013 our core revenues trend continued to improve from a 2.3% annual decline in 2012 to 1.3% annual decline in 2013.
This continued revenue improvement was driven by a nearly $400 million increase in strategic revenues primarily due to growth in broadband Prism TV and high bandwidth data services and hosting services.
The annual strategic revenue growth was driven in part by a 13.4% growth in MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength revenues.
Additionally the decline of legacy revenues has slowed from 8.4% in 2012 to 7.3% in 2013.
We achieved solid growth in both high speed internet and Prism TV subscribers throughout the year adding 140 00 HSI customers and 69 000 Prism TV subscribers.
We’ve been pleased with the early growth of Prism TV subscribers in new legacy Qwest markets where we lost Prism in 2013.
Throughout the year we invested to improve broadband speed availability across our footprint.
We grew the number of enabled access lines receiving 20 Mbps and 40 Mbps each by approximately 25% over the prior year.
Also we continue to focus on deploying more fiber to multitenant buildings and expanded the program by approximately 1 000 buildings during the year.
We have continued to make excellent progress on our $2 billion stock repurchase program authorized by our board in mid-February of last year.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 10.5 million shares for a total investment of $331 million.
From the inception of the program in February 2013 through February 11 2014 we have completed 86% of the $2 billion program having purchased a total of 50.8 million shares or $1.72 billion.
We currently expect to complete the remainder of the current $2 billion stock repurchase program during the second quarter of 2014 well ahead of the original two-year timeframe.
Based on this anticipated early completion of our current stock repurchase program the current level of our stock price and the strong free cash flow we believe we will generate during 2014 management expects to recommend to our board that they approve a follow-on stock repurchase authorization at our regularly scheduled meeting later this month.
This of course would position us to continue to opportunistically repurchase shares and return additional free cash to shareholders once our current stock repurchase plan is completed.
Over the last few weeks our investor relations team has heard from the investment community that some investors are stating CenturyLink’s dividend is not sustainable.
Obviously that concerns us so I want to clearly address the sustainability of our dividend before making further comments.
We remain confident that the investment in our key strategic initiatives continues to position us to reach revenue stability in 2015 and establish a revenue growth trend soon thereafter.
Our strong fourth quarter and solid full year 2013 results along with our full year 2014 revenue guidance show that we have made and that we anticipate continuing to make progress toward reaching our revenue objectives.
Additionally we expect to successfully align our operating cost with our future revenue streams to continue to generate solid predictable cash flows in the years ahead.
We believe in our growth opportunities and we also know that we must improve our operational efficiency to mitigate the impact of the revenue mix shift on our operational cash flow and free cash flow over time.
We believe this improving revenue trend along with the strategic opportunities in the marketplace position us well for future revenue growth and cash generation.
These are the key reasons we believe that our dividend is sustainable and that our payout ratio will remain at a reasonable level even as we begin to pay higher cash taxes in the future.
If you’ll turn to slide six I’ll provide an update on our key strategic initiatives.
Throughout the year we have diligently executed in the four key strategic initiatives we initially laid out in third quarter 2011.
We believe our investment in these strategies will continue to strengthen our overall product portfolio which further positions CenturyLink as a leading integrated provider of global network data hosting and cloud solutions.
Starting with broadband expansion and enhancement we continue to make significant investments in this area that we believe will better serve our business and consumer customers.
We ended the quarter with approximately 6 million broadband customers.
We had a strong fourth quarter adding nearly 49 000 new subscribers and we believe our fiber assets including approximately 240 000 fiber miles across the U.S.
position us well in the business market.
We continue to grow our advanced multitenant unit or MTU program.
We had 200 fiber-fed buildings in the quarter increasing the number of fiber-fed buildings by 17% in the third quarter.
This program offers broadband capabilities of up to 1 gigabit of symmetrical service and it enhances cloud connectivity for these business customers.
We have made very good progress over the past few years in cost effectively deploying broadband services.
We have enabled a total of nearly 8 million homes with fiber to node and have passed a total of approximately 2 million homes with Prism TV capabilities.
We have utilized and continue to utilized a balanced capital investment approach including gigabit fiber VDSL2 and pair bonding deployments to efficiently enable higher speeds and enhance services to consumers and businesses in our markets.
This balanced investment strategy has allowed us to deliver very competitive broadband speeds including up to 1 gigabit service in a number of areas in an efficient manner and to continue to drive broadband penetration.
Early results from our 1 gigabit pilots in Omaha and Las Vegas have met or exceeded our expectations and are good indicators that by coupling GPON technology gigabit enablement with expansion of fiber to the node and Prism TV deployment we can successfully compete and meet the broadband needs of both consumer and business customers.
Our announcement last week regarding the delivery of up to 1 gigabit service to more than 2 500 Salt Lake City businesses located in multitenant unit office buildings or MTUs is an example of how we’re leveraging our existing fiber to opportunistically expand speed and service capability to high value business and consumer customers.
Both the MTU and GPON programs offer upstream speeds and business service level agreements beyond what is normally available with the cable companies.
These offerings are particularly compelling in the business market where upstream capabilities are critical to enablement of cloud services.
In business areas where we do not offer our advanced MTU or GPON programs we have extensively deployed Ethernet services.
We currently cover over 2.3 million business locations with even that capability with nearly half of this footprint capable of 20 megabits and higher symmetrical speeds.
In the months ahead we expect to continue making the investments in our network enhanced speed capabilities required to deliver competitive broadband products and services across our markets.
Turning to slide seven Prism TV service continues to perform well and represents a very compelling entertainment alternative to cable TV service in the markets where we offer the service and we added a record 26 000 Prism TV subscribers during the fourth quarter ending with a total of 175 000 subscribers in service.
Over 50% of these added customers are new to CenturyLink and they continue to have a very high rate of broadband attachment.
This quarter we experienced an attachment rate of 98%.
We continue to expand the footprint where Prism service is available and in fourth quarter we added approximately 180 000 addressable homes of which just over half are in the newly launched markets of Phoenix Colorado Springs Omaha and Denver.
We are very pleased with the early Prism subscriber growth in these first Qwest markets to provide this video service.
We continue to see our churn rates improve with Prism Triple Play bundled customers where the bundled customers are less likely to churn than the single play [unintelligible] customers.
In addition we continue to enhance our IPTV features by introducing new functionality and applications including expansion of our TV Everywhere capabilities video-on-demand library and our recent successful trial of wireless set top boxes.
Continuing on to slide eight during the fourth quarter we completed approximately 930 fiber to tower builds for a total of 4 100 fiber builds in 2013 and over 18 800 total fiber connected towers across our footprint.
In 2014 we expect to complete a total of 3 000 to 3 500 fiber builds.
As expected we continue to experience some revenue compression as our wireless wholesale customers transition from copper based DS1 facilities to fiber-based Ethernet services.
However we anticipate that wireless data bandwidth growth will result in expansion of Ethernet consumption and thereby reverse the current revenue compression during 2014.
Moving to slide nine managed hosting and cloud services we continue to believe we are well-positioned to capitalize on the long term growth opportunities in this space will be developed and we’re expanding our strong product offerings.
Cross sell or team selling opportunities for hosting products across our hosting and network sales teams continue to be strong with sales of hosting services to business customers steadily growing.
Sales of hosting services to the network business customer base has grown significantly in the fourth quarter.
We expect to maintain this momentum as customers seek IT solutions to streamline their operations increase efficiency and reduce cost.
We are focused on growing hosting sales to our large base of business network customers and expanding our hosting demand generation across target customer segments.
While we expect to have some churn of larger colocation clients we expect the new initiatives to continue to drive growth.
We continue to invest to increase our data center capacity as well as expand our product portfolio to meet customer needs and expand our market opportunity.
In the fourth quarter we opened a new data center in Hong Kong and we announced late in November the acquisition of Tier 3 an innovative provider of public cloud services.
Tier 3’s products roadmap and vision are now the foundation of CenturyLink’s cloud development strategy.
We believe Tier 3’s public multitenant cloud platform combined with our global network and data center footprint and managed services team will greatly enhance our service capabilities to businesses of all sizes.
Additionally in January this year Savvis began operating as CenturyLink Technology Solutions aligning the brand with CenturyLink and demonstrating deeper ties to the broadband portfolio of IT solutions delivered to businesses.
Turning to slide 10 I’d like to shift briefly from 2013 achievement to looking ahead at our priorities for 2014.
We were pleased with the strong consumer metrics generated in 2013 as we achieved high speed internet and Prism TV subscriber growth.
As we enter 2014 we expect to continue to invest to enable higher broadband speeds and drive further broadband penetration across our markets.
During 2013 we enabled Prism TV service to approximately 800 000 incremental households primarily driven by our launch of Phoenix Colorado Springs and Omaha during the year.
We expect to continue to expand our Prism TV addressable market during 2014 and to drive subscriber growth during the year driven by the expanded and addressable market improvements in our programming packages and the continued improvement in the customer experience.
We also will continue to monitor our success in all of our Prism TV markets including Highlands Ranch Colorado a suburb of Denver.
We launched service late last year and may consider further expansion of our Prism markets if our results continue to be strong.
With our customer retention programs we continue to refine a series of programs targeting our highest-value customers focused on high speed internet voice and Prism TV services.
We also extended programs focused on new customer outreach auto-pay take rates and overall higher quality sales during the year.
In our business segment we will continue to focus on driving growth in sales of high-bandwidth data services including MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength to meet strong customer demand.
We believe our targeted marketing approach and sales programs as well as continued enhancements in our product portfolio continue to position us to drive revenue growth.
Based on early sales results associated with our recent launch of Managed Office we will continue to grow and expand these by the seat solutions to meet market demand and gain market share.
We also expect to continue to expand our GPON and fiber deployment to buildings providing expanded addressable market opportunities to our business sales team.
In our wholesale segment we continue to expand our fiber deployment to wireless towers continue to drive revenue growth from the continued market demand and from wireless carriers for wireless data backhaul.
However we expect our 2014 expansion pace to be below that of the last few years.
Utilizing the capabilities of CenturyLink technology solutions and the recent acquisition of Tier 3 we also expect to expand our marketing of white label cloud services on a wholesale basis enabling us to drive further growth in cloud services in the coming year.
In the data hosting segment we will migrate it to a single platform that of Tier 3 for all cloud and managed services which will enable new capabilities that further differentiate CenturyLink in the market and enhance customer experience.
Further we will meet customer needs by selling a full portfolio of colocation cloud and managed hosting services while retaining existing customers through exceptional service.
Lastly we expect to identify key partners that will help expand our capabilities beyond our direct sales force and drive additional revenues there as well.
Overall I’m pleased with the solid results for the quarter and the full year.
We continue to invest to drive growth and we’re experiencing good traction in those key areas.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Stewart for an in-depth look at our financial results and guidance.
Thank you Glen.
I’ll spend the next few minutes reviewing the financial highlights from the fourth quarter and then conclude my remarks with an overview of the first quarter and full year 2014 guidance we included in our earnings release issued earlier this afternoon.
Beginning on slide 12 I’d like to review some highlights from our strong fourth quarter results.
I’ll be reviewing the results excluding special items as outlined in the earnings release and associated financial schedules.
As you can see we generated solid operating revenues and cash flows in the quarter.
Operating revenues were $4.54 billion on a consolidated basis a 0.9% decline from fourth quarter a year ago.
Core revenues defined as strategic revenues plus our legacy revenues were $4.11 billion for fourth quarter a decline of 0.4% from the year ago period.
Strategic revenues grew 5.4% year over year and represent 50% of our total revenues compared to 47% a year ago.
Strength in strategic products such as high speed internet high bandwidth data services Prism TV and managed hosting services continues to drive this growth.
As Glen mentioned earlier subscriber growth was strong for both broadband and Prism TV.
From a business market perspective we experienced strong new sales to business customers for network and hosting services in the fourth quarter.
We generated strong operating cash flow of approximately $1.84 billion for the fourth quarter and achieved an operating cash flow margin of 40.4%.
As we’ve discussed on prior earnings calls adjusted diluted EPS excludes special items and certain noncash purchase accounting adjustments as outlined in our press release and associated supplemental financial schedules.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.68 well ahead of the midpoint of our guidance of $0.58.
Results included the benefit of certain favorable year-end operating expense adjustments related to employee benefits operating and income taxes.
Normalizing for these items operating expenses would be approximately $60 million higher and adjusted diluted earnings per share would be $0.59 above the midpoint of our guidance range for both operating cash flow and adjusted diluted EPS.
Additionally we generated $601 million of free cash flow during the quarter which is defined as operating cash flow less cash paid for taxes interest and capital expenditures and additional adjustments to other income.
Our strong cash flows continue to provide us the financial strength and flexibility to meet our business objectives and drive long term shareholder value.
Also during the quarter we made strong progress on the share repurchase program buying 10.5 million shares for $331 million.
Now turning to slide 13 the 0.9% decline in fourth quarter 2013 operating revenues compared to fourth quarter 2012 was primarily a result of growth in strategic revenues that was more than offset by lower legacy revenues due to access line losses and lower minutes of use.
The growth in our strategic revenues was primarily driven by strength in high speed internet high bandwidth business data services Prism TV and data hosting services.
Now turning to slide 14 we’ll discuss each of our operating segments beginning first with the consumer segment.
Consumer generated nearly $1.5 billion in operating revenues which represents a decrease of 1.7% over fourth quarter a year ago.
Our strategic revenues in this segment grew 7.7% year over year to $683 million driven by growth in high speed internet and Prism subscribers and the full quarter impact of price increases.
The long term growth rate in high speed internet is likely to slow over time due to our growth in penetration of households.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined 8.4% from fourth quarter 2012 due primarily to a continuing decline in access line and long distance revenues.
Expenses were essentially flat compared to the same period a year ago driven mainly by lower employee related costs which were partially offset by higher Prism TV cost.
Moving to slide 15 our business segment generated $1.56 billion in operating revenues during the fourth quarter which increased $16 million or 1% from the same period a year ago.
On a sequential basis total revenues grew $19 million from third quarter 2013 primarily driven by higher CPE revenue.
Fourth quarter strategic revenues for the segment increased by 7.5% to $643 million from fourth quarter 2012 driven primarily by strength in high bandwidth services such as MPLS Ethernet and Wavelength.
We continue to generate solid growth across the enterprise customer segments and we see an opportunity for further investment in the small and medium sized business space to improve market share and drive further growth.
Legacy services revenues for the segment declined 3.5% from fourth quarter a year ago due primarily to a continuing decline in access line and long distance revenues.
Total segment expenses increased $39 million or 4.1% driven by higher facility costs associated with our MPLS product growth.
Now turning to slide 16 our wholesale segment generated $884 million in operating revenues a decline of 2.5% from fourth quarter a year ago.
Strategic revenues for wholesale were $581 million which grew 1.6% from fourth quarter 2012 as growth in Ethernet services and data bandwidth capacity expansion by wireless carriers and delays in TDM disconnects offset the decline in low speed transport services revenue.
Legacy revenues declined by 9.6% to $303 million reflecting the continued decline in access and long distance minutes of use and the implementation of lower access rates under the CAF Order rate step-down.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $290 million 3.7% below the same period in prior year driven primarily by lower voice usage costs.
Now moving to slide 17 and our data hosting segment which includes all colocation managed hosting cloud and hosting related network services revenues.
This segment generated $353 million in operating revenues representing an increase of 3.8% from fourth quarter 2012 revenues of $340 million.
Year over year managed hosting revenues including cloud grew 14%.
Colocation growth of 1.4% was weakened by customer churn and price erosion in previous quarters.
Data hosting and operating expenses were $283 million in fourth quarter compared to $264 million in fourth quarter 2012.
This 7.2% increase is primarily due to increased sales costs the Tier 3 and [unintelligible] acquisitions and incremental expenses associated with them and investments in marketing.
Over time we expect long term improvement in both revenue and margin trends across the data hosting segment and continue to leverage these assets to drive additional revenue through cross selling opportunities in our other segments.
On slide 18 we provide our first quarter 2014 guidance.
We expect for the first quarter 2014 operating revenues and operating cash flow to decrease compared to fourth quarter 2013 primarily due to a decline in legacy and data integration revenues along with favorable employee benefits and operating tax true-ups present in fourth quarter 2013 results that are not expected to reoccur in first quarter 2014.
Similar to last year we also anticipate a decline in depreciation and amortization expense in the fourth quarter of 2014 driven primarily by the impact of declining amortization of acquisition related intangible assets and the annual review and update of depreciation rates.
For first quarter 2014 CenturyLink projects total operating revenues of $4.46 billion to $4.51 billion our core revenues of $4.07 to $4.12 billion and operating cash flow between $1.73 billion and $1.78 billion.
Adjusted diluted EPS is expected to range from $0.58 to $0.63.
On slide 19 we provide our full year 2014 guidance.
For the full year 2014 we expect total operating revenues of $17.9 billion to $18.1 billion reflecting a year over year revenue change of flat to negative 1.2% and core revenues of $16.25 billion to $16.45 billion.
Operating cash flow is expected to be between $7.05 billion and $7.25 billion and adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be between $2.40 to $2.60.
Our capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $3 billion as we continue to make investments in key growth areas.
So we anticipate free cash flow for full year 2014 to be between $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion.
We anticipate decline in operating cash flow and free cash flow primarily driven by the decline in legacy revenue investments to continue to grow strategic revenues as well as a lower level of acquisition related synergies in 2014 compared to the level of incremental synergies that we achieved in 2013.
That concludes our prepared remarks for the day so at this time I’ll ask the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator instructions.] Your final question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
I want to talk first a little bit about the guidance Stewart if I could.
So first the full year midpoint is looking for a margin of around 39.7% which is a higher margin than you had in the fourth quarter a higher margin than you’re guiding to in the first quarter.
So if you could kind of step us through where that margin expansion and where the pivot starts to occur that would be helpful.
I think the second thing that would be helpful is you know last year around the middle of the year there were challenges to the guidance numbers and hitting those numbers.
Can you talk a little about the process that you went through for setting these expectations here now and kind of some of the base case expectations that you made around the enterprise environment and other things? And then lastly if I could you talk about as we all know the falling revenues in legacy have higher margins than the growing revenues in kind of strategic services do.
You’ve also talked about the potential for a pivot in EBITDA about a year following the pivot in revenue growth.
Could you put numbers around those margin numbers? If you were having a conversation with someone and they say legacy revenues are X and strategic revenues are Y at what margins could we have a conversation about that? And think about when the EBITDA pivot can occur.
First of all the full year guidance midpoint basically is 39.7%.
The midpoint in the first quarter is 39.1%.
So obviously we expect the latter three quarters of the year to be above that.
We basically have expense reduction programs that we’re working to put in place which will help reduce our expenses from the first quarter expected levels into second third and fourth quarter of the year.
Our guidance last year in 2013 if you’ll recall we had a hockey stick basically in revenues.
So where we really missed our guidance in ’13 and came back and tweaked it some was really associated with the revenue that we hope to get out of some of the products such as Savvis Direct which is our cloud product and another product that just didn’t materialize as we had hoped.
We feel like we have all that worked through in 2014 and feel much more comfortable with the revenue guidance in 2014 I think looking back on the experience we had last year.
So we feel much better about the guidance there.
And again on the expense side we think we have the programs in place and about to put in place to get us to the point where we need to be to hit the guidance.
In terms of EBITDA pivot basically we will continue to lose legacy revenues but our strategic revenues grew very strong in the fourth quarter and really full ’13.
We expect continued growth in strategic revenues in 2014.
What we’ve said is that we’re not ready really to put a peg in when we can stabilize the EBITDA and turn to EBITDA growth but as Glen indicated in his prepared remarks we do expect to get to revenue stability in 2015.
And Stewart just to be clear I think you have kind of talked about a 12-month lag between the revenue pivot and EBITDA stability.
Are you saying something different now? Or am I missing it? Really pretty much the same.
What we’ve said exactly I think is hopefully we would get to EBITDA stability shortly thereafter or sometime reasonably thereafter.
You know a year or so.
We’re not really saying anything different than we said before.
And our next question comes from Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Can you talk about a couple of things? One is the 4Q employee cost savings just help us out and help us understand what was there and I understand it’s not going to be there in the first quarter.
And then as you think about the buyback from here what’s management thinking about in terms of the size of that recommendation? And how should we think about the max leverage on the business going forward? From a leverage standpoint we said that we would like to stay in the 3x debt to EBITDA or so.
We’re at 2.8x debt to EBITDA now.
I’ll let Glen talk to the buyback for a moment and then I’ll come back to the cost savings.
You know besides the buyback we’ve really not discussed that with the board yet so I’m not ready to put a number out there but we realize it has to be significant enough to make a difference and give us an opportunity really to buy our stock back at attractive prices which obviously we believe the current price is very attractive.
But we’re not ready to give a number yet.
We’ll announce that after the board meets.
And the employee cost savings were really related to employee benefits and it was really just making adjustments for really all the adjustments related to the full year 2013.
They revolved around our medical dental and vision accruals basically for current year cost.
They also revolved around some of our post-retirement benefit costs as we made adjustments to adjust that to the liability that it needed to be at.
We changed our paid time off policy and had fewer hours carried over from year to year.
A lot of people took a lot of time off both the last quarter of the year so that drove our paid time off expense up.
That’s about $40 million of that.
The remainder of the other $20 million or so is really related to a transaction tax reserve that we had on an acquired company that is no longer necessary so we’re able to limit that reserve as well as our normal year-end ad valorem tax true ups for the most part.
And our next question comes from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Maybe just a quick comment Stewart regarding the view here.
Obviously you’re discussing the potential for share repurchase.
The competitive landscape for high speed obviously becomes tougher and tougher I think as cable gets more aggressive on pricing or functionality.
What’s your thought regarding balance in the capital budget when you look at 2014 versus thinking about a repo? And then if you can give us any color on what you’re thinking for cash taxes rolling into the ’14 guide that would be great.
Let me hit the last point first and I’ll let Karen talk a little bit about competition.
Cash tax is somewhere between $50 million and $100 million in 2014.
The potential for share repurchase and balancing that with the capital budget we think our capital budget will be about $3 billion this year and we think that that will give us enough free cash flow to complete the share repurchase program that we have in place which we have about $300 million remaining there and implement another program that we would expect to get the board to approve at our February meeting in a couple of weeks.
Karen you want to talk about where we are with regard to high speed internet? Yeah in terms of high speed internet just great quarter and congratulations to the CenturyLink whole team that made that happen.
But I would say that we have ADSL2 fiber to the node capabilities and we really do a great job with our local model using the capital and optimizing by market what capability and how we can market the best capable speed with the cash available.
So it really is a balance of the cash the technology capability on the economics and then taking that and optimizing that message within each market.
So it is very market specific.
And we seem to win that way.
And we consistently upgrade speeds.
I think in the talking points that we have I think there’s a 25% increase in the households that could receive a 20 megabits and higher and a 25% increase in the households that could get 40 megabits or higher at the end of ’13 versus the end of ’12.
And we’ll continue to shorten the loop to put fiber in the network to shorten loops to bond and just to do whatever’s necessary in our markets to be able to compete with the cable companies.
And Stewart when you look at 2014 does the available homes for sale for Prism is that going to be expanding at the same rate we saw in ’13? It will not expand at the same rate.
We added about 800 000 homes past in 2013.
For 2014 we have the Phoenix market to complete and we have I think Glen mentioned the area in Colorado Highlands Ranch.
And we’ll have incremental expansion in really most of the markets.
We’ll cover potentially at least an additional 300 000 maybe 400 000 homes in 2014 really without going into any new markets.
And we’ll evaluate new markets through the early part of the year.
And our next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Glen you talked in your prepared remarks about the strategic opportunities in the marketplace.
I wonder if you could just expand on that a little bit.
Does that mean doing more things like Tier 3? And then just a clarification Stewart.
I think I’m right in saying that your Q1 and your ’14 guidance only includes the share count as of December 31 that the buybacks you’ve done year to date are not in that number? Just want to clarify that number.
So given what you’ve already completed in the last six weeks or so that will help some of the earnings versus what you’ve printed here is that right? Yes Simon that’s correct.
Our guidance only includes this year’s purchases through the end of the year.
Regarding my comments about strategic opportunities I really wasn’t talking about a potential acquisition.
I was talking more about the opportunity to expand our services especially in the cloud hosting space IT services space where we’re seeing more and more demand in that space with our Tier 3 acquisition and the other product expansion product development we’re doing.
We think there’s significant opportunity there the next couple of years to do something very meaningful.
Is there timing on when the Tier 3 integration really kind of kicks into high gear and you can start benefitting from that acquisition? We’re thinking second quarter it kicks in really at a much higher level.
We’re talking about midyear our target.
We’ve already begun selling it and integrating it in some ways but a full integration we’re thinking second quarter.
And regarding acquisitions we’re focused on our key strategic initiatives and we think there’s good growth of these and bringing more MPLS Ethernet expanding our Prism opportunities connect the home the connected office work that we’re doing.
So we think there’s significant opportunities there.
At the same time we will consider inorganic opportunities that will help drive growth really.
We’ll maintain our disciplined approach to these decisions and we’ll just look for the right opportunities that can really grow shareholder value.
That will be our goal.
And our next question comes from Batya Levi with UBS.
Strategic wholesale revenues grew for the first time in a while and you had mentioned before that you expect wireless backhaul to grow in ’14.
Can you provide more color on the timing of that? Can we see that early on in the year? And then also within your guidance for the year for revenues which is looking for an improvement in the rate of decline can you talk about your assumption you have for strategic in there? Let me just talk to you a little bit about the timing and the growth of backhaul revenues.
We are continuing to build out our fiber to the tower initiative and we’ll have completed [unintelligible] really about 18 800 or so towers next year with adding another 3 000 to 3 500.
We are expecting to see revenue compression start to mitigate.
It won’t happen earlier in the year.
There’s a fairly major reduction in some DS1s when a large carrier turned down the push to talk network and that affected everyone in the industry.
So we’re having to live through that a little bit but we do expect that we’ll mitigate towards the latter part of the year.
And in terms of strategic services growth within your guidance? We are expecting our strategic revenue growth to improve in 2014 and think it will be led by our broadband our Prism and our data hosting areas and the success that we continue to have with business customers in the business segment.
It’s about 50% of revenues going to now to [45%].
Should we expect that trend to continue? Yes.
And our next question comes from Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Looking at some of the IP trials that are at the [unintelligible] do you see any value in pursuing that yourself? And then can you comment on the managed office platform that you recently launched? When do you start to get traction with that in the [unintelligible] segment? I’ll comment on the [unintelligible] trials and Karen will discuss managed office.
But yes we would expect to be involved in the [unintelligible] trials alongside the other major carriers there so that we’ll be in a position to move in that direction and get all the learnings that we would get from a trial.
In terms of managed office we’ve really just begun to roll that out in late fourth quarter.
But we are really encouraged by the traction and the funnel that we’re seeing.
It is a different sell for our sales reps but it’s very simple for the business owner right? Because it allows them to have their information technology simply on a per-seat basis and it bundles a business grade data network and a hosted VOIP service with cloud based applications for EMLs and storage really all in one package.
And so we’re also enabling that with our MTU fiber to the building.
And we’ll keep you posted but we’re very encouraged.
And the sales team has given us a lot of good feedback and we think it’s going to change the dialogs they’re going to be able to have in front of the customer.
And our next question comes from Kevin Smithen with Macquarie.
I just had a follow up on an earlier question.
Given your sequential improvement over the past couple of quarters in broadband and Prism TV I guess why wouldn’t you launch new markets and try to pass as many homes as possible this year? And given that interest rates have fallen why not take up lever slightly to fund both the capex and a buyback to try to get to revenue and EBITDA breakeven as quickly as possible and retire shares? We’re certainly looking at new markets and evaluating new markets and the cost of going into them.
And we really wanted to see a little bit more success.
You know we really just turned up the Omaha market in September or October on a commercial basis.
And we’ve done really well there.
We’ve done well in Las Vegas where we have fiber to the home.
We’ve done well in Colorado Springs.
So I think we want to see a little bit more performance and just make sure it really lasts which we certainly believe it will and all indications are that it will.
But rest assured that we’re looking at other potential markets that we could provide Prism service.
When you look at revenue growth opportunity look at Prism it’s certainly one that as Stewart just said we’re looking hard at.
That would involve some additional capex.
I don’t think a whole lot for this 2014.
But it also impacts our startup expenses or EBITDA.
So we would have to take a look at that.
But if we did we’d come back to investors and explain that we’re doing this to accelerate revenue.
We’re seeing significant success in these markets and this is why we’re doing it.
But that would be the issue we deal with if we decided to make a move to more aggressively invest in Prism TV in the coming months.
And what would roughly the capex be per market and opex for startup? It’s really hard to say.
It varies by market and it depends on the quality of the plant that’s there today and how much work needs to be done.
So it’s really very difficult to generalize.
But again if we continue to have good success in the markets that we’re in we’ll keep evaluating in other markets and come back to you guys like Glen indicated.
What’s the max leverage ratios you feel comfortable with exiting 2014? What we’ve said is that basically three times is really our bogey.
And our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi.
I guess the first question is if you just look out three to five years is there a sense of what broadband speed a home needs given the evolution of technology and over the top type of applications? And then if you have a view there how the company is working backwards to try to get the portfolio in better shape in aggregate to get to that goal.
And then just secondly on the consumer side as well are you seeing any changes to the way customers are using bandwidth using internet that you could just give us a sense of whether it’s volume growth or usage per household and maybe how it’s different in a fiber to node fed home versus a straight up copper home? In terms of the broadband everyone has an opinion.
We’ve made good investment in our ADSL VDSL really VDSL technology as well as our fiber to the [perim].
And you know 33 meg to 53 meg we believe we can be successful at.
With bonding we can get well beyond that.
But really what we’re focused on is the functionality and the capability so Prism and the connect the home we’re pretty excited about.
We continue to push the technology team in getting more efficient and we’re encouraged by some work that we have going on that we’ll be talking about in future quarters.
So I think from the standpoint of how we’re positioned we feel good about where we’re positioned right now.
If you look at it you know we have 65% of our households can get access to 10 meg or higher on an unbonded basis not bonded.
Almost 40% can get access at 20 megs or higher on a nonbonded basis.
And just to follow up if you have some details also on usage for home and maybe growth in broadband traffic over the last year that would be great.
The growth basically in the average monthly download was 44 GB which was an increase of 24% quarter to quarter.
The median monthly download however was 16 GB which is again about a 25% increase quarter to quarter.
So the top 1% of our subscribers represented 11% of the total traffic basically.
And 20% represented 70% of the total traffic.
And then just one final question if I could.
Is there a way to think about your capex in terms of what’s a general bucket of the network you know that supports all of the segments? And then maybe the capex specifically for consumer versus business.
I know you’ve laid out some bogeys already on fiber to the tower but is there a way to think about how you have this pool of broad capex but then you could identify maybe some of the pieces for us just think through where you’re [pacing] your dollars? You know we’ll spend $400 million or so on broadband expansion enhancement this year and another $150 million on our Prism TV products.
We have a lot of success based capital with our business customers but that’s all the detail we really want to give you now.
It’s going to be slightly less for fiber to the tower in 2015.
It will be more like into $200 million depending upon the requirements there.
And our next question comes from Sergey Dluzhevskiy from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Two questions.
One for Glen on M&amp;A.
Could you update us on your M&amp;A philosophy and potential areas of interest.
Obviously you guys have mentioned in the past that you have the right mix of assets to return to revenue stabilization and eventually to grow but to the extent that you would look to augment this growth through acquisitions what areas would be of primary interest to you? And also one question for Karen on 1 gigabit service offerings.
Maybe if you could share with us some initial learnings from Omaha and Las Vegas and what are your expectations for these markets and for 1 gigabit offerings in general as you roll them out? Regarding the acquisition approach we’re taking we don’t feel like we are compelled to make an acquisition but to the extent we can find companies that can accelerate our growth that we are interested we’d expect it to be revenue growth accretive also free cash flow accretive I think we said within 12 months.
And it has to drive long term shareholder value.
So those are the three things we look for.
And the recent acquisitions we’ve made all those fit this criteria basically.
They all are especially poised to enhance our growth in the months ahead and we’ll continue to look for those.
These are all the small ones but even larger ones we consider.
But those are the primary criteria we’ll be looking for in acquisition target.
And regarding the gig learnings from Omaha and Vegas still early but again we are really encouraged by the results there.
We are seeing strong pull through just overall two to three times in terms of HSI even outside the gate footprint as well as in impact on business customers.
So we have landed some new business opportunities just because of what we would call a halo effect in these two markets.
And our next question comes from Jonathan Epstein from Deutsche Bank.
First on your comments about the dividend you’ve previously expressed the desire to keep the 2015 dividend payout ratio under 60% of adjusted free cash flow.
Is that still the foundation of the dividend policy? And if so is it a litmus test? Or is there any wiggle room there especially considering the forthcoming renewal of share repurchases? And then just a follow up on a previous question.
Was the $60 million savings in the quarter originally contemplated in ’13 guidance? And can we expect savings of this magnitude in the fourth quarter of this year of course baking in the tax savings that you already mentioned that you expect?  Last question first.
No this was not in our guidance for the fourth quarter or full year really.
We always have a few adjustments during the fourth quarter more related to property taxes and the true-up of our income tax rate for the year and things like that.
You know minor items.
But it just turned out to be much more significant this year because we had a number of employee benefit items that have been much smaller in the past.
So it was not baked into guidance and we would not expect that to reoccur in 2014.
In terms of the dividend we basically indicated that we thought we could keep the payout ratio around 60% in 2015 when we became a cash taxpayer.
It’s not really a litmus test and there is certainly wiggle room from there so it’s just where we thought we would be at the time that we indicated that.
And so it’s not set in stone basically that if we get above 60% we have to take action.
So we’re good with the dividend.
We’re comfortable with the dividend where it is and we’re comfortable looking out a few years to the time when we become a [full cash] taxpayer that based on our business plans today we would not have to change the dividend.
And our final question today comes from Adam Ilkowitz from Nomura.
Quick question on the data hosting segment.
Can you give a little detail on how much Tier 3 added to the growth rate? I know we’re lapping Cyber a bit but I was wondering how much the managed hosting growth was actually organic.
And then a question on cash flow beyond ’14.
I know it’s a little out there but thinking about cash taxes going up and capital spending for some of these initiatives going down given that you’re having success with GPON and with fiber on the business in consumer side does this change how you’re thinking about capex and the speed requirements and moving more to fiber than VDSL and bonding in the future and how that would impact the capex budget going forward? On the first question for the quarter the Tier 3 acquisition added about $1.6 million in revenue for the quarter.
And then just full disclosure we get about a $2 million benefit for exchange rate favorability.
But the rest of the managed hosting cloud growth would have been organic.
So we had a very strong quarter sequentially in terms of growth and new business customers that we added and got installed during the quarter.
And on your second question in terms of GPON and Prism impact and how we might think about capital expenditures and leverage related to that really we believe we have enough capital built into the budgets in the out years to be able to do what we need to do to adequately serve our customers and compete with the cable companies and other competitors.
If we did get to the point where we felt like we needed to drive more fiber than we’re planning on today and expand into many more Prism markets we would certainly come back and talk with you about that and have the case associated with that to sell that.
But basically at this point we plan on really using multiple technologies to provide higher speeds to our customers and think we can continue to really have success there.
Again we’ll monitor Omaha and the gigabit fiber trial there as well as where we’ve rolled it out in Las Vegas and see what success we have and make decisions later.
But for now we believe that with other technologies we can basically be competitive.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Glen Post for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Overall we are well pleased with our strong fourth quarter and solid full year 2013 operating results and financial results.
We believe the investments in our key strategic initiatives continue to position us to effectively compete in the marketplace and drive revenue growth from our strategic products and services into the future.
Thank you for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you in the weeks ahead.