Good day everyone and welcome to Diebold Incorporated’s first quarter financial results conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Ardra.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold’s first quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Tom Swidarski President and CEO and Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we’ve provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Tom and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as past calls it’s important to note that we are restructuring a non-routine income and expenses in our financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company’s baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition our results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today.
As you’ve seen our earnings report this morning we got off to a slow start in the first quarter.
However these results didn’t not come as a surprise to us as we anticipated a slow start in the first half of the year.
While we don’t provide quarterly guidance we have communicated that 2011 would be heavily back-end loaded from an earnings perspective.
We slightly exceeded our expectations for the first quarter despite heavy losses in Europe and a higher tax rate.
Increased order activity in the North American continues to drive the business on a macro level and given the strength in our North American backlog our outlook for the year remains intact.
Let’s review our results in the North America during the quarter.
Revenue increased 3% while order grew about 5% in the region.
Most encouraging is that financial self service orders within the regional bank space where we enjoy competitive advantage increased more than 30%.
This marks the second consecutive quarter in which financial self-service orders in the regional bank space have increased over 30%.
As these orders convert to revenue in the second half of the year we expect a significant uptick in operating profit.
The increasing demand in the space continues to be driven by three primary factors.
One pent-up demand in the marketplace.
Two industry and regulatory requirements such as ADA and PCI compliance.
Three increased deployment of deposit automation enabled ATMs as more regional and community banks are implementing this technology to compete with their larger rivals.
As depicted on the graphic on slide six we now have over 20 000 deposit automation terminals deployed across the country and that number is rapidly growing.
These factors have also contributed to significant growth in our integrated services business.
During the quarter we brought in approximately $50 million in additional IS contracts significantly exceeding the prior periods as well as our own forecast.
By comparison in all of 2010 we signed about 150 million in IS contracts.
One such example of the type of customers we’re signing on is Union Square Federal Credit Union in Texas.
As part of our contract we deliver monitoring remote services and enhanced security for its network of 20 ATMS over the next five years.
A powerful combination of these services enhances Union Square’s ATM uptime and security while enabling the credit union to minimize its operational infrastructure and equipment investments.
Union Square was one of the many great success stories we had in the IS space during the quarter.
We remain the only company in this market that offers a complete outsourcing solution for integrated services business model which continues to grow at an impressive rate.
This is what truly separates us from the competition especially the new competitors.
They’ve recently tried enter our space in the US.
Our capabilities in this area are not easily duplicated as it was time consuming and expensive to develop this expertise and infrastructure over the past several years.
When you combine our strong market position with our unparalleled capabilities and services clearly stand to benefit most from the ongoing resurgence in the North American market.
In summary we are optimistic regarding the state of the North American financial self-service market our strong competitive position and our expectations in this space for the second half of 2011.
Let’s now look at our security business.
Orders for the quarter declined 6%.
Revenue decreased slightly as growth in services revenue was essentially offset by a drop in product-related revenue.
The growth in overall security services was driven by the enterprise security segment which grew in revenue approximately 20% during the quarter.
We are excited about the opportunities this segment brings as we continue to win major projects such as the New World Trade Center Transportation Hub in New York City.
Diebold’s integrated system will include the installation of video surveillance access control and alarm devices throughout the hub.
In addition to our work at the Transportation Hub and Tower 4 at the Trade Center site we anticipate additional security integration opportunities will arise moving forward.
I feel confident in our ability to win additional business related to this project.
Keep in mind given the size and complexity of these types of projects revenue is generally recognized over a multi-year period.
In addition security product revenues decreased in the financial space which is more product-centric and dependent upon new brands construction.
However we expect activity around branch refurbishment to pick up in the second half of the year.
Again I am extremely encouraged by the recovery in North America and the progress we are making in grow our integrated services business.
The region remains our most important and profitable market.
Our brand is the strongest and we have an unmatched service capability.
As such North America will serve as the primary catalyst for earnings growth in 2011.
By contrast in Europe we continue the significant undertaking of restructuring our business to attain expectable profitability.
Our operating loss in Europe was substantial during the quarter as our cost structure remains out of line with the revenue we generate in the region.
Revenues for the period was down approximately 5%.
However I am encouraged by the growth in orders during the quarter which illustrates our ability to effectively compete in the region.
Lastly we are now at the Silicon Bank [ph] in Moscow chose us to provide more than 200 Aptiva ATMs for its network.
The installation process is expected to be completed within the next few months.
As a result of this most recent deal there will be more 450 Diebold ATMs within the bank’s network.
Other notable successes in EMEA include a competitive win in Saudi Arabia for a distributor for nearly 400 ATMs a part of which includes deposit automation technology; orders from two banks in South Africa totaling nearly 800 ATMs and a order from a major financial institution in Italy to replace nearly 400 of our competitor’s ATMs over the next two years.
While the improvements we are seeing in the region are encouraging it’s a slow rebuilding process in Russia and Eastern Europe as a whole.
We still have a lot to accomplish to reach the level of profitability we expect from EMEA.
The process of restructuring our operations there is well underway and is being addressed swiftly and aggressively.
This is evidenced by the substantial restructuring charge we took in the first quarter and has also resulted in our raising restructuring guidance for the full year.
Given the improvement in orders we are seeing in the region as well as cost improvement actions we are undertaking I remain optimistic in our ability to bring EMEA to a breakeven point by the end of the year and return to profitability in 2012.
In Latin America and Brazil business remained solid with revenue up 2% in the region.
Excluding elections and lottery revenue was down slightly.
In Brazil we anticipate a particularly strong second half of the year with all the elections revenue coming in the third and fourth quarters.
In addition two of the largest ATMs orders of the year are expected to be awarded in May.
While we are in a strong competitive position to garner our fair share of those orders the associated revenue would come in the second half of this year.
We continue to feel very good regarding the capabilities we’ve developed in our Brazilian operations both from the technology and services perspective.
In fact we recently received a Best in Show award from Intel at the Intel Solutions Summit 2011.
Intel recognized Diebold for providing advanced technological solutions for the Brazilian market.
The two companies have worked together since 2009 to provide advanced features including lower power consumption and stronger security.
Outside of Brazil we saw growth in several markets as we continue to maintain the leading market position throughout Latin America.
In Mexico we won an order for 200 Aptiva ATMs from one of the largest Spanish banks.
And in Columbia we won an order for 120 Aptiva ATMs as part of extension of the integrated services contract won in 2009.
Looking at Asia Pacific as anticipated we started the year slowly in both revenue and orders.
This is largely due to the clients in China where we anticipate a strong second half.
Like Brazil many of the large ATM orders for the year are expected to be awarded during the second quarter.
Again these are orders that would revenue in the second half of this year.
Elsewhere in Asia Pacific we continue to grow our presence.
In India we won a deal with one of the largest government owned banks to provide close to 1 500 new ATMs and dispensers.
As part of the same deal we also won a managed services contract for nearly 9000 of the bank’s units.
In Indonesia we won separate agreements to provide 1 000 terminals to two different financial institutions.
In addition we are seeing traction in our services business in the region.
During the quarter we announced the signing of a two-year managed services agreement with Axis Bank India’s third largest private sector bank.
We’ll manage more than a 1 100 of the bank’s ATMs and provide services such as ATM monitoring vendor management site maintenance and cash forecasting and replenishment services.
Due to the importance of Asia Pacific and the tremendous growth opportunities the region provides I am pleased with the progress we have made in building our services business.
We remain committed to focusing on our services offerings and disciplined cost management which we believe will be key to our continued success in Asia.
From an operational perspective we are very excited to announce plans to construct the new consolidated world headquarters which will remain in the Akron/Canton region.
When complete the new headquarters will help drive our needs for a truly world-class facility that stimulates process efficiencies enhances our ability to recruit and retain top-tier talent.
As part of our agreement with the State of Ohio we are receiving about $100 million in financial incentives over the next 18 years from state and local governments which remained in the area.
This was the culmination of a two year strategic process in which we considered many factors and many locations and actively engaged other states where we currently have operations.
In the end Ohio’s offer was competitive with these states and presented us with far less operational risk and expense than the alternative moving out of state.
We believe this is very exciting news for our company shareholders associates in Northeast Ohio.
Another recent initiative that may be on our mind is the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan in March.
Although this has had no immediate impact on Diebold’s employees or facilities as the company has no direct operations in Japan our sympathy goes to those people who were affected in the country of Japan as a whole.
In terms of our supply chain however we have discovered some risk of mid to long-term disruption from certain second and third-tier component suppliers.
One component in particular using our currency recycling products and passbook printers is a manufacturer to a supplier’s plant in the area affected by the Tsunami.
As a result we are extending lead times to our customers for those affected products.
Diebold’s procurement organization is working directly with the supplier to determine current inventory levels and plans for getting the plant back on line.
In addition we are also working with our engineers to consider the feasibility of substituting the current components with that from another supplier.
We are completing our complete assessment and working with key suppliers to identify any other potential risks to our supply chain.
We will provide updates on any developments as quickly as possible.
As we look at the rest of 2011 I remain very confident about the market growth in North America as well as the orders in backlog for supporting our strong second half forecast.
We have experienced unprecedented seasonality given timing of the major pending orders in China and Brazil in addition to the voting business already slated for the third and fourth quarters.
As a result we remain optimistic in our position for the remainder of the year and are maintaining our non-GAAP earnings guidance of $2 and $2.20 per share.
Despite the relatively weak first quarter results we reported today the markets we serve are very active.
While the timing of our business this year is quite unique I am confident given the elements of business within our control we will capitalize on the opportunities that stand before us and deliver the results we expect.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Brad.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
There are a number of key topics I’ll discuss this morning including our progress in the restructuring of EMEA the second half seasonality of our forecast our operating expense outlook and working capital and free cash flow.
Regarding our restructuring efforts in EMEA we are planning a thorough comprehensive set of actions through all elements of our operations.
We are reengineering to free up more resources for core markets where we compete most effectively.
Further we are also reviewing our profile in the region and weighing our legal and compliance risk against our profitability in certain countries.
In addition we are planning changes in our manufacturing supply chain logistic and administrative functions.
During the first quarter we’ve made progress identifying actions necessary for specific areas and planning needed to execute on those actions.
This has resulted in restructuring charges of $0.14 per share in the quarter.
Given our adherence to various European labor laws we are limited in terms of details we can provide at this point.
We can’t say this work will essentially take much of this year to implement and the associated costs are anticipated to continue into 2012.
We have an aggressive plan to get our EMEA operations to a breakeven point by the end of 2011 and after spending some time in Europe recently I remain confident in our ability to deliver on that plan.
Regarding the seasonality of our 2011 forecast on slide 15 as Tom indicated there are several factors that have led to a very heavy second half of the year from an earnings perspective.
First our product order backlog in the US regional bank space has increased dramatically since the first quarter of 2010.
We anticipate much of this backlog will be converted to revenue in the second half of the year which creates positive profitability.
Second as we have previously communicated all of the revenue from the Brazil election business in 2011 is expected to be recognized in the second half of the year with approximately 45% coming in the third quarter and 55% in the fourth.
As you know there is very little OpEx associated with this business which creates further positive profitability mix.
Third several of the major orders we anticipate in China and Brazil are expected to be awarded during the second quarter.
Our business in China and Brazil is mostly driven by a handful of large banks which lead to a very lumpy sales profile.
While we don’t provide quarterly guidance I feel it’s important to put some quantification behind our expected second half earnings seasonality.
Based on all these factors I just described we expect approximately 75% of our 2011 EPS to occur in the second half of this year with more profits coming in the fourth quarter than the third.
Now to review our financial results for the quarter turning slide 16 total revenue was down 1% from the first quarter of 2010 with 2% positive impact from currency.
For the quarter product revenue declined 3% while service revenue was up 1%.
Looking at our financial self-service business on slide 17 first quarter revenue dropped 2% from the first quarter of 2010.
Growth in the Americas was more than offset by revenue decline in Asia Pacific due to timing of pending large orders in China revenue also declined in EMEA.
In the security business on slide 18 first quarter revenue decreased 1% from the same period in the previous year.
Growth in services revenue was more than offset by a drop in product related revenue.
As Tom mentioned the growth in the overall security services was driven by the enterprise security segment which grew in revenue by approximately 20% during the quarter.
Looking at slide 19 total gross margin for the first quarter was essentially flat compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Product gross margin for the quarter was down 90 basis points.
Product margin improvements in North America was more than offset by greater losses in EMEA which remains extremely price competitive especially in Eastern Europe.
Service gross margins increased 30 basis points driven by productivity improvements in North America and Brazil partially offset by higher fuel cost.
We expect increased fuel cost to be a headwind throughout the year and as a reminder every $0.10 movement in the retail price of gasoline here in the United States increases our annual expense by approximately $700 000.
Moving now to non-GAAP operating expense as highlighted on slide 20 in the first quarter operating expense increased $8.7 million or 1.5 percentage points of revenue from the comparable period in 2010.
This increase was the result of several factors.
First SG&amp;A in our international operations increased $3.5 million.
This is related primarily to some one-time cost benefits in the first quarter of 2010 that did not repeat in 2011.
Second we have foreign and currency exchange impact of $1.9 million and finally 401(k) reinstatement R&amp;D and other costs make up $3.3 million of the increase.
We anticipate second quarter OpEx will be similar to what we’re reporting for the first quarter.
However we expect OpEx for the full year will decrease on a percentage basis to approximately 18.5% as we anticipate significantly higher revenue in the second half of 2011.
Now turning to slide 21 non-GAAP operating margin in the first quarter decreased to 4.3% from 6.1% in the first quarter of 2010.
We do expect full-year operating margin will be in the range of 7% to 7.5%.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on slide 22 non-GAAP EPS moved from $0.34 per share in the first quarter 2010 to $0.23 in the current quarter.
Our non-GAAP tax rate moved considerably from 29% in the prior period to 40% in the current quarter negatively impacting EPS by approximately $0.05 per share.
We still expect our full-year tax-rate to be approximately 28%.
Turning to slide 23 free cash use for the quarter was $101 million compared with a free cash use of $67 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Please refer to the bridge chart for an overview of the quarterly change in free cash use.
We anticipate normal seasonality with strong free cash flow later in the year.
I remain comfortable that free cash flow will exceed a $150 million at year-end.
In addition to our dividend we expect share repurchases to be a primary use of cash in 2011.
During the first quarter we repurchased 523 000 shares.
Due to the timing of the authorization we began repurchasing shares later in the quarter.
However we still intend to execute on the full 4 million share repurchase authorization in 2011 barring any developments on the acquisition front or dramatic changes in the business environment.
Looking at slides 24 and 25 DSO increased from the prior year by two days while inventory turns decreased slightly.
Working capital remains a top priority and we anticipate improvements by year-end.
However as Tom noted we face some supply chain risk relative to Japan as well as the backend loaded nature of our forecast.
Turning next to liquidity and net debt on slide 26 net debt was $85.9 million a decrease of $92 million from March 31 2010.
Our net debt to capital ratio was 8% at March 31 2011 compared with 15% in the prior period.
We have made substantive reduction to our net debt since 2007 while at the same time returning more than $300 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
As I mentioned in the past most of our cash exist outside the United States and we continue to implement the most tax-efficient methods to access that cash.
Now to slide 27.
We’re continuing the global review of our FCPA compliance.
There had been no material developments in the review since our previous earnings call.
Our expectations remain that it will be done by year-end.
First quarter costs on the FCPA review were approximately $6 million in line with the fourth quarter and we expect a similar run rate in the second quarter tapering off in the second half.
We’re excluding these costs from our non-GAAP operating results to provide a better overall understanding of our underlying operational performance.
On slide 28 we’re reaffirming our full-year outlook for 2011.
We expect revenue to increase 3% to 6% with no guidance changes in any other segments.
Given our aggressive plans in EMEA we have increased our anticipated restructuring charges for 2011 to be in the range of $0.23 to $0.28 per share.
We still expect our full-year non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $2 to $2.20 per share.
In conclusion we’re extremely encouraged by the momentum we’re seeing in the key North American markets.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
We’re aggressively addressing our business challenges in Europe and we expect our full-year operating expense as a percent of revenue to improve over 2010.
We know that we have a very aggressive forecast for the second half of the year but this outlook is based on several concrete market and financial indicators that give me confidence we will be able to deliver our expected results.
With that I’ll turn it back to John.
Thanks Brad.
Ardra we’d like to open the call for questions at this point.
(Operator instructions) We’ll go first to Kartik Mehta at Northcoast Research.
Hi good morning Tom and Brad.
Both of you talked about obviously the challenges you’re facing in EMEA especially Europe.
And I’m wondering if you could maybe give some numbers as to the income or loss that region generated for you in 2010 and the first quarter of this year so maybe put some perspective around how much of restructuring is going to help you as we move forward? Okay.
So I would say that in essence the delta between the two years is approximately $10 million.
So you’d say last year was more or less a breakeven situation.
This year we lost about $10 million in EMEA for the first quarter.
And what about for the year Tom for 2010?  So Kartik you’re asking comparison what our – what we did last year?  Yes so I understand first quarter obviously a really bad quarter out of EMEA and it looks like you are going to make a lot of progress at least by the end of the year.
I’m just wondering in 2010 what did EMEA generate income for even – I don’t know if there was a loss perhaps you -- ?  Okay so we had – yes we did have a loss last year in EMEA.
Just call it around of the $5 million to $7 million $8 million range right in there.
That was in 2010.
And so Tom in the past you’ve had some restructuring in Europe.
I remember when you had a plant in France and you tried to shut that down and that took a little – probably a little bit longer than maybe what everybody expected.
It seems like you’re being more aggressive this year or this time around I apologize in Europe.
And I’m just wondering are there any similarities between the two restructurings or is this completely different and won’t be as difficult or as time-consuming as the last one? Well I think anytime you do anything in Europe it is always time consuming because you’re working through the World Council and the whole bid.
I think the big differences here compared to last one is the kind of strategic objectives of what we’re trying to accomplish and one of the key things here is putting more of the resources in the market that we can make the biggest difference; the Frances the Italy the Spain UKs and make sure we allocate our resources there and address some of the service and logistical infrastructure issues.
Back in when we made those first changes while we made some other changes really the focus of that was really the manufacturing piece.
Now we’re talking about really the guts of the operation and putting ourselves in a much better position there to compete effectively.
And I think as you saw from the orders when we focus on specific countries that there are so many countries there we don’t have the presence we do in other parts of the world and we tried too many things in too many countries with so many distributors we’ve been ineffective and it’s been frustrating and disappointing for all of us.
So we’ve really turned our attention from a senior level standpoint to one of the more strategic things we’re going to accomplish this year and in essence make the decisions this year.
So while some of the restructuring costs may actually leak into next year just because of the timing of the (inaudible) accounted for.
And my expectation is Brad and I and the leadership for EMEA will have made all the important decisions this year and as you see how fast we’re making those we we’re able to take some additional visibility to increase our restructuring charge for the year.
And Tom just turning to the US obviously there is lot of debate about deposit image-enabled ATMs that whether you should have a dual throat [ph] or a single throat.
And I know you’ve gone with where as of now the dual throat technology and I’m wondering as you competed for business if that has been a headwind at all or what type of experience you’re having with your customers as you talk about their technology needs?  Okay.
I think as we said all along for us the technology conversation is really a second third type of conversation.
So first of all the evidence in terms of what we’re seeing at the regional bank space with orders up 30% again for the second consecutive quarter and momentum growing there we said all along that as the deposit automation takes hold into the next tier players we felt very well positioned there/.
So just that you understand from our standpoint our first conversation is about technology about integrating services about the complexity of their business and how we off load that.
And the other pieces that we talk about when they do want to talk in terms of technology because that’s always important is certainly speed availability reliability cost of ownership and then you get into the ability to repair and talk about the service organization.
So we feel very very confident in our ability to move down this path and think that really the table starts tilting in our favor.
And it’s pretty evident really when you look at the last six months and you see the backlog that’s growing relative to that.
The other thing I would comment on is from the integrated services standpoint again they get the integrated the services because of the deposit automation conversation where you’re solving bigger issues then something is – when you ask the question about single or dual throat that really is not the issue.
They want to solve compliance issues.
They want to solve ADA issues.
They want to solve PCI issues.
They want to solve the whole infrastructure complexity issue which is really what we’re offering.
That’s why again our integrated services order book in the first quarter was at a record high coming off a record high from the fourth quarter.
So we did $50 million.
And when you do that then you start getting into the operations of the bank and can really improve the efficiencies.
The other thing I would say there is again as we talked previously that backend system to be able to monitor improve the work flow and process again it’s from a service’s standpoint a key point that we point out.
So we’re not feeling – we’re feeling like very good very confident that the momentum we’ve created is going to continue in the second quarter.
Thank you Tom.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
You’re welcome.
Next we’ll move to Matt Summerville of KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Just I have a follow-up question on EMEA.
I guess I’m a little surprised by the magnitude of operating losses in the first quarter of $10 million more than you lost for the entire year 2010.
I mean can you kind of walk through in a little more detail how things sort of added up to get to that destination? And I guess in your plan or in your $2 to $2.20 just so unclear does Europe move to a breakeven position for the full year or move to a breakeven run rate exiting the year if you could clarify that please?  Okay.
So I’ll start and then Brad feel free to jump in as we deal with this.
Sure.
First of all Matt in the first quarter as compared to last year as always you run into certain factors.
The biggest are product gross margins were significantly lower this first quarter as compared to the other quarters of last year which relate to certain specific opportunities or deals that you end up revenuing in the first quarter.
The second thing is because of our lack of density there our service gross margins don’t increase like we have in other parts of the world.
So while service gross margins overall when you look at it you’d say gee service gross margins we’re growing overall.
They actually decreased on us in the first quarter because lack of product volume impacted installation which impact our service our service margins there in the first quarter as well.
That worked against us.
Then the last thing was tying those two together is really the mix issue.
So those were probably three of the primary factors.
The other thing is while we’re moving on the restructuring activities we still get here with all that expense here in the first quarter.
And as a matter of fact that escalated somewhat in that we’ve got some outside help helping us so your costs are a little bit higher here in the first quarter.
So for the first quarter the $10 million versus kind of where we ended up last year again it was in line with our expectations.
So from our standpoint as we thought about the whole year in math the $2 to $2.20 this first quarter is absolutely in line and was factored into kind of overall guidance and kind of reaffirmed today.
Yes Matt let me just kind of reinforce and then answer kind of the second point of your question.
I mean it certainly is as Tom pointed to the product margins in the first quarter being down substantially from the prior year it certainly is.
We’re moving into Eastern Europe and rebuilding Russia.
Certainly that has put pressure.
That’s a more competitive marketplace.
Our manufacturing operations in Hungary we’re running at a lower rate just as you can see based upon the overall revenue levels for the business.
So those are the things that ultimately grow the product margin.
As we look at kind of where we’re focusing the business is to get the business to breakeven by the end of the year.
So I would think of that as more on a run rate basis versus being able to offset completely the $10 million loss that we had in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the China dynamic you guys have kind of talked about that Brazil sounds like – it maybe a little bit more backend loaded than maybe you originally thought heading into the year.
I guess as you’re having these discussions more real time with these banks I guess I just want to get more comfort with the timing on when these things come in because I was thinking if you started getting these things these things don’t come into until June July August that’s not going to revenue this year.
So I guess I just want to try and put some sort of probability around being able to execute on these potential awards.
Okay.
So I’ll talk about Brazil first and then we’ll move to China.
We have pretty good visibility here if not really good visibility here.
The issue you faced in Brazil this year every year when they have the election the big government banks – so they just had the Presidential election last fall the Presidential elections affect the big government banks as they start shipping around different players in those banks.
So we actually are at a meeting as we speak here with one of the big government banks that’s doing the public hearing this morning which will be letting the order out.
Thus the information we had uptil this morning was basically that these decisions will be made here in the May timeframe – May early June timeframe which would allow us the revenue.
And their expectations what they’ve been indicating to us is they looking to have all this installed this year.
Same thing with the private banks we’re dealing with in Brazil as well that the May timeframe really is when decisions will be made orders will be let and they are going to move very quickly.
So we’ve got I think excellent visibility here into Brazil.
If you move to China it’s the same scenario.
It’s just the banks are different both the big government banks and what’s occurring there and the information we have directly from the banks is several will be moving here in the month of May; decisions made toward the end of May beginning June; deliveries third and fourth quarter.
So from an internal standpoint while we know what’s going to be backend loaded because of the timing of these it’s definitely all third and fourth quarter whereas it begins the year with May of course there will be something towards the second half of the second quarter.
But I think from a visibility standpoint a probability standpoint they’re both very high in terms of what’s going to occur.
The only variability could be is we had Intel saying they were going to look for 8 000 and they do 7 000 or 6 000.
That could be a sling factor but again we should know all of that well into the second quarter and we’ll also know where we stand relative to that and what we’ve got in our forecast.
Okay.
And then just – thank you for that comment Tom.
And then just one final question.
I know you guys don’t want to necessarily get into the habit of giving quarterly guidances so Brad I appreciate talking about 75% back half of the year as far as far as earnings that implies 25%.
In the first half if you use the midpoint of your range and just do kind of simple math that implies an EPS of around $0.30 or so in Q2 which is still fairly below kind of where you guys were at last year.
I guess sequentially I’m trying to understand some of that dynamics as I would assume your tax rate is not as high going forward in Q2.
Your losses in Europe maybe come down a little bit off that $10 million rate.
I guess why we’re not seeing a little bit more of a bounce off Q1? Well Matt I think you – again I appreciate your preface there right at the beginning of giving the quarterly guidance.
Certainly we are doing the $0.23 in the first quarter there is a sequential improvement implied as you just factored in.
So I do think we actually are showing sequential improvement driven by again starting to see the EMEA turn and certainly the losses in EMEA is what drove the higher tax rate.
So we would expect our tax rate to start to also drop.
So I do think we are actually seeing the sequential improvement.
Matt the other thing I would say is if we went back and looked last year you would see for instance Brazil at the big banks they made their decisions earlier in the year.
So that’s the big swing factor because of the importance of Brazil for us in particular and certainly we had communicated all along all of the voting was going to be in the second half of the year which is consistent but really the big swing between two years would be Brazil big bank decisions which have a big impact on us.
So again because they got out of the gate slower this year than they normally would have because of the election with the government banks that has really moved a lot of that now into really the third and fourth quarter.
So I think that would be the biggest variable that has changed year over year.
Thanks Tom.
Thanks Brad<br> Yep.
And next from Gil Luria at Wedbush Securities  Yes good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First of all on your orders in the US it sounds like there is a mix shift almost apples to oranges between orders of ATMs and integrated services contracts could you help us understand the difference in math here so I know there is no exact numbers if a median typical ATM is a $20 000 order how much is an order for a five-year integrated service contract ATM? Is it different order of magnitude even if you just have to talk about a typical scenario here what’s the difference in kind of the order rates for those two different scenarios.
So Gil let me try and frame it up because in essence there is the difference between the two is not the price of the technology or the contract of service.
What it would be with the IS order we get additional services that would come along with that.
So for instance they may be having us monitor the ATMs we may be doing patch management currency forecasting so it is a whole suite of services they choose between and again what we are seeing over time is that as we get them on an IS deal over five years sequentially they begin to pick other services once they have confidence and the ability to deliver.
And these are not like $1000 a month type of services.
In many cases these could be $5000 $10000 $15000 [ph] unit type of services but as you begin to spread that and build that out which is what it’s building for us; it has given us really big confidence in not only the business model which is really taking that order off the street and giving us five years to work specifically with an institution.
It is also allowing us to help them improve their operations and being in there with them.
So an order of magnitude the ATM is going to cost the same and the service contract is about the same.
That really doesn’t change it all it is just the ancillary services that come along with that over the five year period.
Well let me ask you this slightly just to make it more specific maybe so if you had a small bank that was going to buy 10 ATMs from you this year that would be a $200 000 order so if you had the same bank sign a five year integrated service contract with you for 10 ATMs with some of those upsells that you are talking about let’s say a typical level of upsells what would that – how big would that five-year contract be? Maybe it moves up 5% over the course of five years because we only revenue the managed services pieces in the current year and that’s kind of the building effect.
So say it was an additional $5000 in this hypothetical situation maybe you are one that’s only additional $1000 in services revenue.
Is that clear?  Maybe I’ll just take it offline.
Let me just then kind of translate it to what I’m trying to get to which is how much do you expect the US regional revenue to grow this year over last year? I would say that first of all the order entry certainly is the case to solid growth.
I don’t think we are giving out specific relative to the growth in regional versus the big guys.
What I would say is in essence our mix is changing whereas the last several years you would have seen the mix being heavily weighted by the national accounts or strategic accounts.
It’s now shifting more back especially second half of the year to being influenced by the regionals which is very good news for us.
And the other thing it also suggests is as we are not only able to hold the revenue we are growing that means we are filling up pretty big buckets from strategic accounts or national accounts with a lot of smaller accounts.
So I think for me that’s the overriding message that you’ve got.
A lot of activity we have 450-plus customers now using deposit automation you have a 100 – I don’t what the number is 110 or 50 customers that have 10-plus deposit automated terminals out there within their network.
So we are starting to see that.
What we have talked about for a long time coming is the regional bank space really beginning to take off deposit automation is a key driver.
Deposit automation decisions lead to this IS capability and for us that’s a good sequence to occur.
Hi Gil this is John.
Just one more point on the IS you used the example of a bank that was going to replace 10 ATMs one of the dynamics we are seeing is they typically would replace all their ATMs.
So maybe this a bank that did two ATMs a year over a five year period now they transition to an IS contract and they want to replace all 10 ATMs because we are taking over management for that.
Got it.
And then my second question is kind of following up on some of the guidance questions.
So if we are saying three quarters of the profit in the second half of the year more than the fourth quarter that’s a 40% of the profit that you expect to come in in the fourth quarter how much of that is in or you’re marking for December and how much of that has the risk of slipping into January.
Gil I mean that’s a good question.
And that’s something that we are looking very closely at.
I don’t know if we have that exactly here marked but I can assure you this much that the installation ability and the ability to revenue and because it’s backend loaded there obviously is risk associated with that.
But we certainly think that the – we certainly think we have the ability and capability of hitting exactly what we are lining up and we’ve got our organization geared up for it.
And the point is as long as we get the orders in and we can schedule them here in the May June July timeframe we are very very confident in our ability to be able to deliver and meet that and while some may slip I think within our guidance we have that factored in appropriately.
Got it.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) We will go next to Paul Coster at JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
First of all regarding the European restructuring it seems like it’s quite complicated can you talk a little bit about the organizing principles around it? And specifically how you protect your incumbent customer accounts over there specifically those customers that might be more than country specific maybe regional and even have operations in emerging markets is there any risk associated with this restructuring there? Yes I’ll start and then ask Brad to comment as well.
I would say the driving is exactly what you hit I mean the reason EMEA so strategically important to us and the reason we are putting resource back into or additional resource into specific locations and maybe not putting as much resource in other locations has to do with the large strategic accounts that or residents there that are morphing into global banks it doesn’t take you long to figure out between Spain and France and the UK as you’ve got a lot of the single a lot of the players that impact other parts of the world.
So in essence we are putting more resource there and maybe looking at some of the other areas that are less important than small geographies whether it be in Africa or little parts of Eastern Europe where there is complexity and now with the compliance I mean the guideline are saying you know what it’s really not worth it we are not going to drive much profitability there and it doesn’t give us much benefit globally why do it? In terms of the complexity part of it we’ve basically broken it down into seven discrete projects and it’s being run by specific managers the things like service and logistics there is one specific tranche of work that is being done it’s being evaluated; shared services.
We take a look at that our country’s focus activities manufacturing you go right down the line.
We don’t believe this is complex.
The complexity comes in terms of dealing with the work councils and making sure that we dot all the i’s and cross the t’s.
So again I think I’d reiterate we are – Brad and I feel confident we can made the decisions this year some of the cost maybe into next year but our goal is we are taking cost out immediately because there is something whether it be shared services and logistics that – those are not discussion points.
There are other things that are more strategic that will be heavier discussion points but we feel pretty good and have a lot of clarity in terms of leading that likewise we’ve added some resource to help us make good decisions to manage these projects over in EMEA to support the existing EMEA team.
Do you think you have the right products for EMEA at this time? I’m sorry would you say that again?  Do you believe you have the right product lineup in Europe? Yes I think the – the thing we can’t do is try and be all things to all people.
And that’s why I think when you look at our order entry when we focus on specific markets we can do exceedingly well.
So order entry is up 40% in the quarter.
Again these things are lumpy but what that proves to us time and time again is we are focused on specific accounts specific countries we can do pretty darn well on EMEA.
We are nowhere near where we want to be in EMEA we don’t have the same influence and have the same capabilities we do in Brazil or Latin America or North America or in Asia Pacific we understand that which means we have to be even more focused to make sure that we start building some density within these countries to drive our business model which is services and recurring revenue stream in these key countries and with these key customers.
As you pursue these service opportunities in emerging markets you cited the example of India is there any compromise to your margin structure? I would say overall I mean if you look at India in general there absolutely is the services is much better than the product margin.
So the key there for us is as we build density much like we have in the United States if you look historically over the last maybe five seven years in the United States and look at our service margins I mean there we can see the two improve through efficiencies through density through the technology the backend systems that we are deploying to be able to take calls out the system the quality of the products.
Once we have the density it is very advantageous.
Right from the get-go in India that was the business model we went to.
And so we recognized on that early and everybody has been there everybody wants to be in India local guys are in there all the global players are in there.
So on the product side that’s going to be very very competitive and very challenging.
So as such building – the first thing we did several years ago was build an IS center there and begin to manage the products.
And as such we are very happy with the growth we are very happy with the profitability we have moved to -- in India whereas three or four or five years ago we didn’t have the density we were nowhere near where we are today.
So it’s a good business model it seems to make sense and on top of that as you can see from some of the comments today we’ve been able to secure some pretty significant orders so people are confident in our ability to deliver as well.
My last question relates to the domestic business I think you and your main competitor in the US have both talked about order intakes in excess of 20% year on year growth in the last few quarters and yet the revenue growth is modest is this just simply because the order intake relates to just such a small subset of your business or is there – it seems to be a delay between the order intake and the actual revenues can you talk about the cycle time there and what is that I’m missing?  Yes so – I mean I think you hit on the head.
There is an increased delay between orders and revenue absolutely.
There is couple of parts there; one is you are no longer just talking about an ATM because the impact of deposit automation the bank itself has much more to do to be prepared for deposit automation in either a process or a network to be able to handle the more complex transaction to build but handle that deposit free ATM.
They need to have the right technology infrastructure with (inaudible) making sure they’ve got their IT pieces in place.
And then third they have work flow issues within the bank branch facility.
So I think for anyone when you deal with the complexity of deposit automation outside of the big – five or ten national banks once they have that in place you can just move very quickly.
With a lot of the smaller players it takes a while for them to be prepared even after they order it.
So as such you see the delay relative to self service it has extended.
The other thing that extended is really the IS piece because again IS is more complex than just a simple ATM.
Again both of those work in our favors long-term and they also change the dynamics from a competitive standpoint and really prevent a lot of the kind of the low-end providers to just come in and compete.
It’s very very difficult and complex when we had IP add software and you have the technology piece to it and the ability to manage that.
So you are exactly right it takes much longer as you move to the tier banks the smaller tier banks which is the phase we’re in and where our orders have increased significantly over the last six eight months.
Hey Paul I – also – I mean your question was certainly in the order entry and I think if you go back and kind of look at the discussion and the pattern of our order entry in North America certainly it began to strengthen significantly in the fourth quarter of last year.
We’ve had another strong quarter the first quarter and therefore kind of a proxy of six months to revenue that’s why it’s now coming in the second half that’s what is contributing to back-end loading nature of our earnings performance for the corporation one of the factors.
Thank you very much.
Ardra we have time for one more question please.
Alright.
And we will take that question from John Williams of Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Thanks for (inaudible) A couple of questions you’ve seen couple of orders a couple of quarters in a row pretty order growth from the US regionals I was just curious if you could give a few more specifics on when you expect to see those translate into revenue and I know you just gave a little bit more color on that but just in terms of – I know that with the extended self cycle is this something that should probably continue into early 2012 or should we see the full impact of what you’ve seen in the last few quarters over the rest of 2011?  Yes.
Well certainly John.
I mean what we saw in the fourth quarter and what we’ve seen in the first quarter the vast majority of that should revenue here in the second half obviously as we continue to strengthen the order book and we certainly have seen continued strength in April; if that continues then obviously that revenue will be in 2012 to support the continued momentum.
The other thing is John is that we have again we talk about IS remember that those are five years so we’re going to get to the point here within this year or next year where that additional revenue begins to kick in as well.
So we’re expecting IS to start contributing really in a meaningful way in the second half of this year as well.
And again as that goes over time our backlog in that space alone has continued to grow rapidly.
So that again will yield – impact or begin impacting third and fourth quarter but have begin to have a material impact in 2012.
Great.
Just in terms of clarity on the growth that you’re seeing is there something specific from the regionals that continues to be driving this or is it just the fact that there is probably some backlog on their side in terms of upgrading and ordering? I think there’s two things one would be that as we said there’s pent-up demand and you have ADA and PCI compliance issues hanging over them.
The other thing is we began five years ago really with an education of theory that have carried on for five years out in the field where we take in essence this entire solution out to the market.
This year alone we’re going to be running I think it’s like 35 or 40 seminars and generally have 20 to 25 banks attend.
Most banks from what we’ve seen end up attending these over a two or three year period before they make a big decision relative to IS but deposit automation maybe brings them in the door and they may see the whole suite of solutions in security and logical security and that really is a big factor.
<br>So we’ve been building toward this and the marketing and the development of the capabilities as well as the product capability I mean Kartik asked the question earlier.
We’re the only ones with the flexibility of letting someone have a single check or a single note.
That’s a huge issue for a small credit unions to begin down this path.
If you want a single check and a bulk note you can have that.
So the flexibility becomes much more important to this segment which is why we designed the terminals the way that we did and as such I think we’re enjoying the success of that right now and that’s going to continue.
We see nothing to prevent that with the issues of reliability and availability.
We get the cost of ownership again with the kind of the service infrastructure and with the capability.
It’s not just now we have been talking to them we’ve been talking to them for two or three years.
It’s just now that they have begun to move in a serious manner.
And I think the other thing that’s impacted them is you probably have about 35 000 deposit ATMs deployed by the top three or four or five banks in the United States.
We are starting to see them everywhere.
We’re starting to see ads on TV so they have a need to really move.
Got it and that’s good to hear.
One other question I guess just quickly on capital allocation.
You guys obviously buy back some shares on the quarter.
You’ve got a pretty good cash position.
You got what seems like a decent 3.5 million share block left under your authorization.
What are you thinking now in capital allocation would you consider sort of an enhanced buyback or at least really ramping it up given the stock option today is down a little bit but what are you thinking here? I think John we’re still focused on the 4 million share authorization that was authorized in February.
Again we will continue to look at this and I’d just continue to point to you that as we look at our overall capital allocation or we look at the balance sheet certainly a lot of our cash is offshore at this point.
And so we’re accessing that cash to fund the share buyback program and we’re trying to do that in a tax efficient way.
So we’ll just continue to kind of execute on the current program look at our tax repatriation strategies and we will take a look at this as we get through 2011 for 2012.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate it.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I will turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks Ardra and thank you everyone for joining us on the call today.
As always if you have any follow-up questions please don’t hesitate to reach down for myself or Chris Bast.
Thanks again.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Diebold Incorporated’s second quarter financial results conference call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Tim.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold’s second quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Tom Swidarski President and CEO and Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we’ve provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Tom and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as with past calls it’s important to note we have restructuring impairment charges and non-routine income and expenses in our financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company’s baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will be focused on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition our results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today.
We are pleased to report a solid second quarter with better than expected results in several key areas of the company.
Growth continues in North America particularly in the U.S.
regional bank space driven by strong demand for deposit automation and new technology needed to meet pending regulatory and industry compliance standards.
We also drove operational progress in EMEA during the quarter and are on track to reach a breakeven run rate in the region by year end.
In addition during the quarter some revenue came in earlier than anticipated helping to reduce the heavy second half of our forecast.
Increased order activity in North America continues to drive the business on a macro level.
In fact our financial self service product order backlog in North America is up 75% from last year and is now comparable to levels we had prior to the financial downturn.
Importantly much of this growth is occurring in the regional bank space where financial self service product orders grew 180% in the quarter.
This is an increase from the growth in product orders we experienced in the first quarter of this year and fourth quarter of last year which were up 90% and 150% respectively illustrating the continued momentum in this segment.
Given this continued strength in our North America financial self service business we have increased confidence in our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Let’s now take a closer look at our financial results in North America.
During the quarter total revenue increased 5% while overall product and service orders grew about 14% in the region.
Looking at just product orders for financial self service in this region we saw an increase of around 18%.
Demand for deposit automations and need to meet new ADA requirements early next year and ongoing PCI compliance once again fueled momentum in the regional space during the quarter.
These demands are creating a level of complexity that is driving more institutions to adopt an integrated services approach.
This enables them to meet regulatory requirements and offer their customers the latest technology without investing a great deal of capital.
This environment has resulted in another record quarter for our integrated services business.
The company signed new IS contracts during the quarter valued at more than $75 million representing a threefold increase over the prior year period.
One such example we announced during the quarter was with First National Bank of Pennsylvania where we are providing a variety of product and technological upgrades through integrated services.
The bank chose Diebold to help expand its consumer banking options and enhance security by replacing 150 ATMs with Opteva and upgrading an additional 100 ATMs adding deposit automations to nearly one third of the bank’s fleet.
Another U.S.
regional customer who has signed an integrated services agreement with us during the quarter was Teachers Credit Union.
We are helping TCU implement new technologies and services including ATM upgrades for deposit automation monitoring and security that will enhance the Credit Union’s operational efficiencies and improve convenience for its members.
We now have more than 500 customers in the United States that are leveraging our deposit automation technology.
In summary we are very optimistic regarding the state of the North American financial self service market and our strong competitive position.
As our large backlog in North America begins to convert to revenue we expect a significant uptick in operating profit for the second half of 2011.
Our brand is the strongest and we have an unmatched service capability.
As such North America will serve as a primary catalyst for earnings growth in the second half of the year.
Now looking at our security business revenue was down 1% during the quarter while orders fell 2%.
These results were disappointing.
As we were expecting to see a greater rate of recovery this year particularly in the bank branch space.
It’s now clear that the security market for branches will remain distressed into 2012.
As a result we have reduced our full year revenue outlook for the security business.
However we continue to make operational progress particularly from a cost perspective and raising our profile outside the financial market in enterprise security.
For example last week we announced we are managing the integration of a complex security software system for the new World Trade Center’s site in New York.
This is in addition to the other work we are doing in terms of securing the construction site and Tower 4 at the World Trade Center.
Diebold’s integration efforts will connect an array of system to the security command center via single interface giving operators unified control and views of the entire site.
Diebold will integrate security among 11 locations including five high right buildings the World Trade Center transportation hub the National September 11 Memorial and several other critical infrastructure facilities.
We have executed well on our diversification strategies as we’ve gained positive traction in the enterprise security area with high profile integration projects such as these.
However creating overall top line growth in this segment continues to be a challenge as the bank branch market for security remains weak.
We illustrate this point while our enterprise security revenue grew more than 20% during the quarter.
Our overall security revenue decreased slightly.
To generate top line growth in the security business moving forward we’ve begun a number of strategic initiatives and supporting organizational changes.
Our goal is to better leverage our enterprise security expertise in the financial market.
Historically our focus in financials have been on the branch with an emphasis on product sales as new branch construction is expected to be flat in the next several years we are shifting our focus to enterprise solutions which are more oriented towards services.
As security systems have become increasingly complex financial institutions are showing more interest in outsourcing this area of their operations.
Particularly as it relates to monitoring services and software.
To support this strategy we’ve made some significant changes in our U.S.
financial sales organization.
We moved some of our top enterprise security systems experts over to the financial group as specialists to support our sales efforts to financial institutions.
In addition we’ve created an integrated services business for security modeled after our successful IS efforts on the ATM side.
I have a lot of confidence in the leadership we have in place to direct this effort and our team’s ability to deliver.
This is evidenced by the $450 million in ATM integrated services total contract value that we generated over the past five years.
Given the lengthy sales cycle inherent with the IS business we anticipate seeing some initial top line impact from these efforts in mid 2012.
In addition to the shift in sales focus we are pursuing other means to effectively grow the security business for the long-term including increased activity on the M&amp;A front.
Now moving to EMEA revenue increased significantly during the quarter up more than 30% as some large deals in Africa and Eastern Europe had a positive impact.
Orders for products and services were down 3% in the period.
This decrease is largely due to timing as orders in EMEA were up 42% in the first quarter and 16% year to date.
Despite current economic concerns in Western Europe the overall market seems to be fairly stable with France and Italy having turned in solid results for us.
As a whole Africa the Middle East and Eastern European market continue to show some growth.
In Russia we’ve made some gradual progress to rebuilding our sales and service operation in wake of the FCPA review.
During the second quarter we appointed a new General Manager for Russia who has extensive background in the global IT industry.
This is a critical first step towards reestablishing our presence in that market and provides us with the leadership that will be necessary to succeed and grow over the long-term.
During the quarter we also made progress in our reengineering initiatives in the region.
We continue to consolidate and centralize administrative work in our European shared services center.
We also entered some distributive relationships in several non-critical markets.
And we continue to drive improvement in our supply chain and manufacturing.
Overall we’ve identified $8 million in cost reductions that will be realized in 2011.
As a result well we lost more than $10 million in EMEA in the first quarter our losses in the second quarter were trim by over 50% sequentially.
This puts us on track to hit our target of a breakeven run rate in EMEA as we exit the year.
Obviously our first priority is stabilizing the EMEA business in the near term however we will continue to build our services infrastructure throughout the region and invest in key growth markets to improve our competitive position over the long-term.
In Latin America and Brazil orders and revenues both declined about 30% during the quarter excluding election systems and lottery sales however orders and revenue declined 15% and 7% respectively.
As we’ve previously discussed our business in Latin America and Brazil is particularly backend loaded in 2011 driven by a concentration of large orders.
In Brazil we received one of these expected orders during the quarter.
In July we received three additional sizeable orders in the region.
We now have orders for several 1000 ATMs in hand as a result we have greater confidence in our forecast for the remainder of the year.
We were also recently named Best Information Technology Company in our industry segment by Exame Magazine.
This is the fourth time Diebold Brazil has been recognized as the best IT Company in Brazil.
Last month in Sao Paulo I attended the 2011 CIAB Conference which is the most important Financial and Information Technology Trade Show in Brazil and one of the largest in the world.
While at CIAB I spent time with Senior Executives from (Inaudible) and Banco Santander.
The later a customer was in expanding global reach.
With all three seeking a partner as an organization with a passion for solving customer problems and a proven track record of delivering innovated solutions that address emerging needs.
This is at the heart of what Diebold does.
And gives me continued confidence at the capabilities of our Brazilian operation both from a technology and services perspective will allow us to lead the market and continue to grow in Brazil as we move forward through the future.
The market with the rest of Latin America also remains very active.
During the quarter we won major deals in Mexico Columbia Venezuela and also made solid inroads in Peru a country in which we are currently under penetrated.
Services growth in this region is also been particularly strong.
Now looking at Asia Pacific revenue increased 6% during the quarter while orders for products and services jumped 18%.
We exceeded our Asia order entry forecast for the quarter as we were awarded one of the large anticipated orders from China.
And some business in India and South East Asia was awarded to us earlier than anticipated.
In fact our order backlog for the region is up nearly 50% from the prior year near an all time high.
Given our strong second quarter order entry and backlog I remain confident in our ability to deliver for the full year in the region.
As I mentioned India was particularly strong for us in the quarter as we continue to grow our presence in that key market.
In May we announced an agreement with State Bank of India to install 1700 ATMs these units are specifically designed for India to optimize power consumption and the total cost of ownership.
Deposit automation will be enabled by our Opteva 328 cash recycling ATM which has a high capacity cash deposit and recycling terminal with a compact footprint.
In addition our growing outsourcing business in India continues to gain momentum as we signed multiyear managed services contracts for nearly 10 000 ATMs during the quarter.
Diebold is the leader in managed ATM services in India with nearly 40% of the country’s outsourced ATM market.
Due to the importance of Asia Pacific and the tremendous growth opportunities the region provides I’m pleased with the significant strides we’ve made in establishing our services business.
We remain committed to focusing on our services offerings and disciplined cost management which we believe will be key to our continued success in Asia.
From an operational perspective we continue to execute to what the goals we established in our smart business 300 initiative.
Also the Japan supply chain issue we first reported last quarter has been resolved and the financial impact to the year has been largely mitigated.
This involves a great deal of work from a dedicated team of professionals in our procurement organization.
Having managed through this successful reduces some risk from our forecast as we look to the remainder of 2011.
And given the earlier than anticipated second quarter revenue we generated as well as our growing order backlog and in financial self service we gained more confidence in our outlook and are reaffirming our prior guidance of $2 to $2.20 per share.
So to summarize we feel good about the opportunities out there in the markets we serve and I feel we have a right foundation to build upon.
Around the world Diebold is proving everyday that we have exactly what it takes to execute on our business and expand our customer relationships.
Our expanding offering of services coupled with innovative reliable technology and our ability to consistently deliver on our commitments to customers gives me confidence that we will meet our strategic objectives.
With that I will turn the call over to Brad.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Before we get into the financials I will provide an update on our progress in EMEA restructuring our compliance efforts and the second half seasonality of our forecast which has changed slightly.
Regarding our restructuring efforts in EMEA we are executing on our plans across the region.
As Tom indicated we have identified $8 million in cost reductions that will be realized in 2011.
This will be accomplished through core country rationalization lower manufacturing and logistics cost and improved administrative efficiencies through leveraging our shared services infrastructure.
In addition we have identified other actions during the quarter that will result in further savings in 2012.
As a result we are raising our restructuring estimates for the full year.
We are confident that the actions we are taking are beginning to produce visible results.
As Tom also mentioned we were able to reduce our losses in the region by half in the second quarter compared with the first quarter.
In fact we showed a slight profit for the month of June on strong year-over-year revenue growth.
We have a long way to go before we are consistently profitable in EMEA on a month-to-month basis; however I am encouraged by the early results we have generated and even more confident that we will achieve our target of reaching a breakeven run rate by year end.
In regards to our compliance efforts during the quarter our global FCPA compliance review remains on schedule with no material development since our previous earnings call.
We still expect the FCPA review will be completed by year end.
FCPA related costs for the quarter were approximately $4 million down from $6 million in the first quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2010.
Also on the compliance front during the quarter we brought onboard a Chief Compliance Officer as part of our effort to ensure our program is highly effective according to industry best practices and global government standards.
Regarding the seasonality of our 2011 forecast on slide 16 as we previously indicated there are several factors that have led to a very heavy second half of the year from an earnings perspective.
However some business closed earlier than originally forecasted during the quarter which has reduced some of the backend loaded nature of our forecast.
We had previously expected 75% of earnings to come in the second half of the year.
Now we expect approximately two-thirds of our 2011 EPS to occur in the second half of the year with more profit coming in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
The change in phase between the first half and second half is important as it reduces some of the risks associated with our previous forecast.
Now to review our financial results for the quarter.
Turning to slide seven total revenue was essentially flat from the second quarter of 2010 with 5% positive impact from currency.
Products revenue declined 8.5% while service revenue increased to 6.2%.
The decrease in product revenue is primarily the result of lower election and lottery systems revenue in Brazil which is expected to revenue in the third and fourth quarters of this year compared with the second and third quarters in 2010.
Excluding Brazil elections and lottery product revenue would have increased 6%.
Looking at our financial self service business on slide 18 second quarter revenue increased 9% from the second quarter 2010 growth which primarily driven by strength in North America and EMEA.
In the security business on slide 19 second quarter revenue declined 1% on the same period in the previous year.
Growth in services revenue was more than offset by a drop in product-related revenue.
As Tom mentioned the market for bank branch security equipment has not recovered as we had anticipated which is negatively impacting our product revenue.
However service revenue continues to grow driven by the enterprise security segment which grew by more than 20% during the quarter.
Looking at slide 20 the total gross margin for the second quarter was down 0.8 percentage points compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Both product and service gross margins were also down by 0.8 percentage point for the quarter.
Product margin improvement in North America was offset by decreases in the international operations led by EMEA.
The decrease in service gross margin is primarily due to a difficult comparison to the prior year period when we benefited from a vehicle fleet rebate and some other items during the quarter that resulted in a higher than normal service gross margin.
In addition we expect increased fuel cost to be ahead for the remainder of the year.
As a remainder every $0.10 movement in the retail price of gasoline in the U.S.
increases our annual expense by approximately $700 000.
Despite these headwinds we still anticipate a slight improvement in the service gross margin for the year.
Moving now to non-GAAP operative expense that’s highlighted on slide 21 in the second quarter operating expense as a percentage of revenue with 20.4%.
Sequentially however OpEx decreased 0.6 percentage points from the first quarter and we expect OpEx for the second half of the year to be in the mid 17% range as we anticipate significantly higher revenue towards the end of the year.
Now turning to slide 22 non-GAAP operating margin in the second quarter with 5.6% we expect full year operating margin to be around 7%.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on slide 23 the non-GAAP EPS move from $0.53 per share in the second quarter of 2010 to $0.44 per share in the current quarter.
Our non-GAAP tax rate declined from 28.7% in the prior period to 25% in the current quarter.
We still expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 28%.
Turning to slide 24 free cash use for the quarter was $22.6 million compared with free cash flow of $22.9 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Negative cash flow versus the prior year period is primarily the result of two factors.
First we had approximately $70 million in tax refunds in the second quarter of 2010.
Second as Tom mentioned we’re at near record backlog levels in North America creating a buildup in inventory to meet delivery schedules for the second half of the year.
As we look at the full year we anticipate normal seasonality with strong free cash flow later in the year.
I remain comfortable that free cash flow will be around $150 million for the full year supported by significantly higher second half earnings inventory drill [ph] down and a normal pattern of accelerated collections towards the end of the year.
In addition to our dividend we expect share repurchases to be the primary use of cash in 2011.
During the second quarter we have repurchased $1.1 million shares leaving $2.4 million shares on to current board authorization.
We still intend to execute on the remaining share repurchase authorization in 2011 barring [ph] any dramatic changes in the business environment or acquisition activity.
As Tom mentioned we are building a pipeline of potential acquisitions targets focused on our current core lines of business.
Looking at slide 25 and 26 DSO increased from the prior year by 4 days while inventory returns remained the same.
The increase in DSO is primarily the result of timing of revenue late in the quarter.
Working capital remains a top priority and we anticipate normal seasonal improvements by yearend.
As a remainder each day is worth about $5 million in cash flow.
Turning next to liquidity and net debt on slide 27 net debt was $149.7 million a decrease of $44 million from June 30th 2010.
Our net debt-to-capital ratio was 14% at June 30th 2011 compared to 16% in the prior period.
We have made substantive reductions in our net debt since 2007 while at the same time returning more than $350 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Based on our projections for free cash flow we anticipate being in a slight net debt position at yearend.
Also during the quarter we announced we entered into a $500 million credit facility agreement with certain credit relationship banks.
This facility replaces a previous facility of approximately the same amount which was scheduled to expire in October 2012.
The renewal improves existing covenants and includes an all end reduction in borrowing cost of 150 basis points which represents an annual savings of approximately $5 million at current debt levels.
In addition the unsecured credit facility is for a term of five years and expires June 2016.
Our strong track record of consistent cash flow enabled us to significantly reduce our borrowing cost and improve the length of the term of the facility.
In terms of the outlook for 2011 on slide 28 we expect revenue to increase 3% to 5% while financial self service revenue increasing 6% to 9 % and security revenue flat to down 3%.
Given our continued aggressive plans in EMEA we have increased our anticipated restructuring charges for 2011 to be in the range of $0.31 to $0.35 per share.
We are maintaining our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance in the range of $2 to $2.20 per share.
In conclusion we are extremely encouraged by the momentum we are seeing in the key North America market particularly in the regional bank space.
Our bank balance sheet remained strong and we are seeing operational improvements in Europe and are aggressively addressing our build business challenges there.
Also the earlier than anticipated business we closed during the second quarter gives us increased confidence in our forecast for the remainder of 2011.
In the intermediate term we remained focused on driving operational improvement and executing strategies in our core businesses to drive return on capital employed for our stated goal of 15%.
We have a great level of confidence on our global team and our ability to deliver value for all of our stake holders.
With that I will turn it back to John.
Thanks Brad.
I assume we are ready to open it up for questions now.
We just ask each caller to try to limit yourself to two questions initially and then get back in queue so that we have an opportunity to get through everyone’s questions.
Thanks.
Tim? (Operator Instructions).
And we will go first to Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Good morning couple of questions.
First Tim I think you may be mentioned this but I want to make sure I understand the small bank order book or the regional bank order book in North America that you have now compares to the prior peak how Tom? In terms of the regional orders that we are basically back to where we were prior to the what you call the financial economic crises throughout.
So in the self service side it’s improved dramatically as you can see by the percentage increases over the last three quarters and sequentially as well.
So if we look at kind of where your product gross margins back in out the items a little over 25 kind of where they are at in the second as you get into the sweeter spot in that backlog.
Do you think your product gross margins have room to move back to where they were pre sort of the financial crises? I guess how are you thinking about your backlog in the margin upside from here? Yeah so Matt I think if we just compared North America to North America I’d say we are going to feel pretty confidence from where they move back to I think when you mix in the rest of the world particularly the Asia pricing issues where we are at in the EMEA I think that while we might see some increase in product gross margins.
I think it’s going to be muted as a result of folks of regions outside the U.S.
and particularly with kind of the Asian influence from a pricing standpoint and given that Asia as you saw from our orders and from the revenue continues to grow that mixes in and impacts that number.
Okay and then just one final question I’ll get back in queue you talked about the incremental cost savings that you expected from your efforts in EMEA at $8 million or the total cost savings at $8 million realized in 2011 based on all the actions you are taking (Audio Gap) taking then how much would that tee up to be incrementally realized in 2012? I think we will be in a much better position the next couple of quarters to give you some better direction on that I think we have some aggressive plans in EMEA that we are executing again so we feel good about how we are moving down that path.
But until we actually realize those and measure that accurately I think we would wait to give some direction on that I want more confidence and our ability to deliver it more confidence in our ability to steer here correctly.
Thanks Tom.
You’re welcome.
And we will go next to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Yes good morning.
So it sounds like we are at the end of the July and then given the timeframe between your receiving orders and being able to actualize the revenue and recognize the revenue.
It sounds like from your commentary that you have everything you need you have sold everything you needed you have gotten the orders you need to give you confidence for results for your guidance for the rest of the year now it’s just a matter of executing on those orders.
Yeah Gil I would say that’s very close but we still have work to do here in August relative for the remainder of the year but certainly we’ve taken a lot of risk off the table with the size of the orders we have recognized or realized around the world and certainly July was very critical component of that we were anticipating that they have been realized.
So now some of the risk becomes more of the implementation risk of in the November December timeframe we have schedules laid out things happened to those schedules.
So I would call it more implementation risk whereas last quarter we were saying well there is a lot more risk associated with what we needed to capture in terms of orders.
And Tom my second question is about the fit of your security business Tom your ATM business is improving it’s doing very well it’s your higher margin business certainly the activity of the regionally U.S.
banks is encouraging you are going in spite of what the portfolio assessment you are doing in Europe.
But in spite of the U.S.
regional banks doing better the security business does not seem to be doing better three quarters of your business is still banks and they seem to be buying ATMs but not building a lot of branches.
How do you see the long-term fit of this business as it disappoints one more year this is not the first time you’ve had turn around in this business in the past? And why would you want to invest more capital in M&amp;A in this business if it that’s the if the ATM business is really the business that’s really driving the growth overall? Yeah fair question Gil.
And the one that we have talked a lot about internally if you look back in the macro level the pieces of the security market they are very big piece of the security market that are growing fast that we have not necessarily participated in the way we think we can.
A lot of the wins that we’ve had that I mentioned in terms of level of sophistication the World Trade Center is a nice one now because there’s five or six different projects we have there order entry in the neighborhood of $30 plus million in one particular site needing the kind of sophistication that you bring to the table as a result of what we’ve able to do on the ATM side.
The changes we are making strategically in the security business is one with the recognition that the branch activity right now continues to falter part of that in the regional bank space in result of the capitals we are investing on the ATM side we had a number of those conversations with folks.
So that’s one issue associated with that.
The second is our focus of the organization on the security side is both important for the security business as well as the self service business as well.
A lot of the activity is pulled through from a security stand point on the ATM.
So when we talk about our IS offering or moving on to the IS side on the bank what we are talking about is taking the capability that we have in the World Trade Center and brining that back into the banks around the United States and not just focusing on the branch anymore.
Because as you can see we’ve demonstrated outside the financial sector that there is a need for kind of capabilities we have we’re bringing the expertise back into the financial sector now with a focused effort there.
And the individual we have to leave that was the individual we have to leave the IS on the ATM side to have pretty big confidence there the other thing I would say if you look at the security business 60% of it today is recurring.
So it has the makeup of exactly what we want what we have not done the last two years successfully is pushed hard enough in the financial sector in the space it’s growing which is really enterprise IT kinds of capabilities which we’ve done outside of the financial.
So with that we’ve got a very focused effort on this and our expectations are you can actually grow this faster once we get the branch piece back to a kind of a more normal level.
So that’s why it’s both important strategically as well as practically.
Got it thank you.
And we go next to Grant Keeney with Northcoast Research.
Good morning.
Your comments on the environment India on the move to an outsource model.
I was wondering if you could provide some color on the competitive environment there and you know your strategy just given that shift to the outsourced model.
You know there are company’s you are competing versus who just provide only an outsource service or what’s the competitive environment like? Yeah Grant I would say in India India evolved when you look at different markets around the world India evolved maybe differently since some of the other markets from the gecko [ph] they were very services oriented on the very front end.
So fortunately for us that played into kind of our mode of operation which is maybe less product centric and more holistic services oriented.
So such as we established operations in India certainly would be the footprint with technology and the product itself but we begin to develop the services infrastructure that we leverage from Brazil right out of the gate that gave us some really [ph] experience there.
What we’ve seen is the market moving more and more aggressively in that direction I think we’re well positioned and feel like we have 40% of the market and are the market leader there with some of the biggest banks in that space.
You do however find a unique set of players there and there are some small startup there are other players in this space that you wouldn’t see anywhere else in the world that certainly are competitors in that arena.
We feel like we’re well positioned there because of our total capability and it ties into our service operation but we certainly have our eye on a lot of these small competitors that we find ourselves up against in some of these bids? Okay thank you.
And then a follow-up on a previous question you talked about the shift towards more of an outsource enterprise security model I think you mentioned the change in the field for organization there.
Do you expect to grow that business organically or are there companies out there you can acquire to enhance that profile? Yeah I think I’d answer that both.
I think we’ve got the skill set we’ve got name recognition with these kind of contracts we’ve won likewise again we are talking about specific niches where our competencies give us a competitive advantage in these spaces.
So when you think back in terms of a financial sector we have a lot of opportunity there because we haven’t been in that space really at all we’ve been in more of the bank branch space.
So we are talking about taking our competencies back into the banking sector with some of the high end enterprise IT capabilities and there are some marginal players that could add some competencies there for us.
So that would be the type of thing we are looking at along with having a broad offering of services so platforms that offer the capabilities to expand our services offering into that institution becomes important.
So it’s not just alarm monitoring it now is monitoring energy management consumption kinds of things it’s now monitoring other sophisticated things that we do on the IT side the video surveillance kind of capability biometric entry into remote locations identity management.
Those are the types of sophistication that we are able to do at these high end enterprise pieces that we haven’t focused on in the financial so I would say it’s both capability within this the verticals that we’re focused on and secondly it would also be companies that add services capabilities to expand we’re already offering to someone.
Thank you Tom.
And we’ll take our next question from Zahid Siddique with Gabelli.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I have a few questions.
The first one is on the debt level I know the debt has gone up by about $50 million roughly.
What was the reason? You’re talking about the debt levels from? From I believe Q2 over Q1.
Yeah and really that function of the fact that we had negative free cash flow in the quarter we had our normal dividend and then we had repurchase 1.1 million shares in the quarter.
Again we’re looking at this Zahid more from a full year perspective given the backend loading nature of our cash flow.
So as we look at the overall free cash flow for the full year of the $150 million we look at the dividend that we’re going to be outline plus continued execution on the share repurchase again we expect that will be in a slight net debt position by the end of the year.
So I would encourage you to kind of look at the full year as oppose to just the quarter.
Okay.
And then on Brazil election you’re sort of expecting roughly $100 million for the rest of the year? Yes.
Yes.
Yeah that’s correct.
I think we 100 to 105 in estimate that includes lottery but that’s the category that’s right.
Okay.
And then within the I guess talking about the M&amp;A one of your competitors is undergoing an acquisition currently they are adding another leg to their business.
And I wanted to get your thoughts on your end are you satisfied with the portfolio that you have or could you potentially also be looking to diversify? Zahid I think our focus is more with to be more focused on adding capabilities for existing businesses that we’re in.
And that’s how I would differentiate it and I would also say that ours would be very maybe more oriented towards services in the software side and the recurring revenue stream of services in the software side of the business.
So that’s how I would differentiate it I don’t think we have any intentions to try and put a completely different vertical within our portfolio we are pretty happy with where we are at we see the opportunities we think are significant regarding to the spaces we’re in we need to execute better within those spaces and add and take advantage of the competencies we’ve built.
So that’s the direction we would take on the M&amp;A front.
Okay.
And also going back to the competitor we’ve heard that that we’ve been gaining share in North America and Europe would that mean that you’ve been losing share or is that what’s your take on that? Well I mean I guess I would for me this whole share conversation always is brought with a lot of issues but I would just say you mentioned North America if you look at our first North America slide our regional space was up 183% or 180% I think in this quarter we were up 90% the previous quarter 150% the prior quarter.
So those are our products level numbers and I put those out there because I get this question all the time and well to me product isn’t really a big indicator of share I would have to say that those numbers are significantly higher than anything I’ve seen from anyone else.
Again we’re looking the holistic aspect of recurring revenue streams and services that included in those numbers but our product numbers are much higher than anyone else’s when you look at it from just a product standpoint.
We report product and service together that’s why our overall numbers would look smaller but when you pull product out you saw that we are up 80% in product alone in North American financial self service huge numbers.
Sure and just a last real quick one what was the tax refund I think you said $20 million what was it from? And so the tax refund was $70 million that was received in the prior year and that was really due to some tax planning work that we did as a result of some divestment activity.
Okay and so that was to second quarter of last year so no refund this quarter? That’s correct.
Okay thank you so much.
And we’ll take our next question from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Hey everyone this actually Roman Leal.
I wanted to ask a little bit more on the market opportunity in India.
How big do you see the addressable market there? How many ATMs do you think there are? What percentage of that is outsourced? And do you think this can potentially become as important as Brazil for you? I think it will take a while to get the levels of Brazil.
The market information you have relative to India is sketchy at best but let’s say there is about 70 000 units that are there.
The difference would be in the India market today we are focused on outsourcing and we’re building our competencies there and like I indicated we think we have about 40% of that market.
It’s going to grow very fast going forward I mean in our business there banks want to deploy faster then they have internal capabilities too plus it’s driving the outsourcing capability.
The difference is in Brazil we’re basically not just an ATM company we’re an IT company so we have all sorts of other engagements in these banks that are IT centric providing certain types of technology and even beyond kind of the bank sphere.
So it would be we’d be hard pressed here to say we could get to the level we’re at in Brazil in the next five years maybe a longer term you can get there.
But right now we want to built our competencies both in the services software standpoint focused on the ATM space and outsourcing with our capability there feeds into where the market is going not everybody is moving there but a lot of players are.
And so managing complex networks and doing that well in getting the scale we need is really what we are focused on.
We’ve had some good progress there and I would expect that we just see continued growth over the long-term in India each year for the next five to ten years.
Great.
On the security business what makes you confident that with the sales kind of restructuring and other changes you made there what makes you confident that you will start seeing some top line impact in mid 2012.
Is that more of a pipeline a comment or something else there? And also I understand that the new bank crisis that’s remain weak.
But what’s the natural or is there a natural upgrade cycle to current security systems that kind of encourage banks to rethink their the security systems and maybe even open the door for you to introduce these new value added services there? Yeah that kind of almost the answer I would be playing back to relative to the importance of this space.
So first of all in terms of the organization we’ve taken the individual that help to create our IS space IS business on the ATM side to lead our sales effort comprehensively on the security side.
So as an individual Greg Steffy I think many of you have met him and he has the ability to really take a complete solution and provide it to the marketplace.
So integrated services becomes a key aspect to this the second piece of that is not only his leadership but the dedicated resources that we’ve now put under him as well.
So we now have security specialists that are focusing on the space much like we do ATM specialists that can go very deep on these subjects because security is no longer a very simple topic it’s a very complex topic and the IT capabilities are required.
So as such what we had developed actually outside of financial which is the reason why the World Trade Center and UN and these other big complex facilities that need deep IT capabilities use us is the reason we are taking that organization and focusing back on financial.
And as we do that that allows us really to get them into the IT world relative to security where our skilled and competencies differentiate us from someone using VCRs or a simple method that they still use in many institutions today relative to video surveillance and tapes and all sorts of things that are inoculated.
But there is not an ability to migrate them we now believe that we got ability to do that the markets moving in that direction we are now putting the resource against that with the right leadership and dedication.
So we feel pretty good about our ability to do that it’s evidenced by when we put the focus on the non-bank space we’ve been able to generate the kinds of wins that are quite frankly taken the industry by surprise.
So the whole World Trade Center now is got five major projects that Diebold has won in that space the most recent one the situation awareness one ties in 11 different facilities all from different vendors and suppliers to one location this could be monitored all through the software and capabilities that we developed in the design site.
Eventually we will be looking to monitor great services from that entire operation so that’s why I’ve got confidence in our ability to do this.
Great thank you.
And let’s take our next question from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Thank you most of my questions have been answered but I do want to talk a little bit longer on this security service question and the allocation of resources.
So is it mean that you are going to deemphasize the resource that is allocated to the non-financial services sector.
And in terms of your sort of expectation of this demand being in existence in the financial sector have you actually got a couple of kind of wins under your belt that have given you confidence that the demand pull through there and it’s not just associated with having the right people allocated to the space? Yeah good question.
And yeah I would say it is going to force us to we are taking some resource from some of the non-financial sectors where we have not seen the profitability that we were expecting into the ATM space.
So part of it has to do with growth part of that to do with profitability expectations long-term.
So as we said on the front end we went in to take a look at security in a lot of these non-financial sectors we are going to analyze both growth rates and our ability to deliver the kind of profitability that would be a credit for the company.
As we have looked at that and then also looked at the financial side we have two customers I would say in the top 25 in the United States where we have done significant complex IT security projects for which has given us a lot of confidence as we’ve gotten in there in terms of the opportunity because several others have come to us and asked similar type questions.
So we see a path to actually taking over the infrastructure of one of the top 25 banks in the United States in terms of running their security infrastructure from the command center all the way to all the technology out to all of the folks in their facilities.
So yeah we have a lot of confidence in it we have a few wins that are under our belt we got a long way to go but that’s why we are reallocating resources back.
And it’s the space where we know how to climb around in the financial institution we know where to go we already know the IT folks.
So for me its focused depth with the right competencies will allow us to get in there to generate the kind of growth we have.
And at some point as the bank branch activities take place we are going to pick up again.
It’s just has not taken place now but certainly a lot of banks have talked to us about that.
But we can’t wait for that that’s why we are focused a lot of taking our enterprise IT expertise back in the large scale projects.
Do you see some of the quiet of carrying sales people as fungible between the integrated services business and the enterprise security business.
I would say they are fungible from the standpoint of the security technical expertise you need works across the various industries.
What is not fungible is your brand.
And what is not fungible is the longer the sales cycle.
So for us being in spaces we are very comfortable with and have a reputation in allows you to move down this path very quickly and that’s the goal here.
Okay thank you.
And we will take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
A couple of follow-up questions can you guys quantify the magnitude of what we will call a pull forward that you think you experienced from July into June? I’m looking (Inaudible) I don’t know if I can… No I don’t think so Matt.
Okay and then Tom to one of my earlier questions you talked a little bit about pricing calling out Asia can you just do kind of a quick walk around the major regions and talk about what you are seeing from a pricing standpoint? Sure since you mentioned Asia; let me comment there first.
Asia certainly from our vantage point has the most pricing pressure on us because you have most players there and the size of the opportunities also creates pricing pressure.
When I look at the other regions of the world if you went in say Latin America and Brazil I would say it’s kind of consistent that has been United States has been relatively consistent.
And when you look at Europe Middle East and Africa you would say more or less consistent again the one common theme across all of this would be the big opportunities attract a lot of attention and have a strategic procurement folks involved by the very nature of having more pricing pressure than you do on some of the smaller opportunities that’s why as the regional banks has kind of begun to do activity that with our reputation and closeness to them.
It really gives us a nice competitive advantage with the service infrastructure.
Outside of that it is the major banks across the world it is very price competitive.
Okay that’s actually all I have.
Thanks Tom.
You’re welcome.
And we will take our next question from Michael Saloio with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Can you guys hear me? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Could you just maybe summarize for us and I know you already gave some detail on this how many of the previously mentioned three orders you have got during the quarter.
And then it seems like you have a number of other orders left so I am trying to figure out given the backlog seems up pretty nicely how much more could be bullied throughout the rest of the year with orders that are kind of still outstanding? Yes I think Michael when I talked about it first I talked about the area of Latin America and Brazil.
That was one of the big ones we have talked previously in Athens [ph] we said we had one significant order during this quarter and three additional ones in July.
So that gave us kind of visibility in Asia we secured one large order in the recently and feel very good in terms of that along with what we said with India and Southeast Asia activities that we feel pretty good about really both of those regions now.
So I think last time we said there is some pretty big opportunities out there depending on how they go really impact the year.
We feel very good with what we’ve secured and certainly we are not stopping don’t get me wrong.
But at this point a lot of the orders are going to be influencing 2012 not 2011.
Okay and could you just repeat your comments about what the backlog of ATM’s in Brazil? I think you gave a number but I missed it.
No I don’t think I did.
Or maybe Latin America.
I think I had mentioned backlog in Asia.
Which was up 50%.
We didn’t give a number though.
Yeah.
Okay I thought I heard a number in Brazil.
No.
Okay I guess this second go ahead.
We don’t give specific backlogs numbers.
I think what we are trying to do is imply the size of the backlog with significant both there in North America.
Okay secondly it’s very encouraging to see the turnaround in EMEA could you talk about what regions there I know you mentioned this in the last call but what regions are you really focusing on and kind of where the growth is coming from in EMEA? Sure I would say that the this would really be the Western European countries where we have a focus such as the France the Brazil Spain UK.
There would also be Middle East is important to us.
We are establishing ourselves in Russia is important and we talked about the steps we are taking there.
And then places like Belgium are particularly important to us so we’ve got a very focused effort relative to those areas.
When you look at the African continent you would say the most important area within Africa for us is South Africa I mean the rest isn’t quite the focus we have as we do in South Africa.
So again our focus is reemphasize in these areas resources moving towards these countries what we think we’ve got both some scales some competency capability and the ability to grow our business there along with taking the being the disciplined approach of taking cost out across the rest of the region.
Okay that’s all I have.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no other questions in queue.
I will turn it back to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Thanks Tim.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning and it’s always any follow-up questions should be directed to myself or Chris Bast.
Thank you again.
That does conclude today’s conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Diebold Incorporated Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Dana.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Diebold’s third quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Tom Swidarski President and CEO and Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we’ve provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our Web site.
Tom and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as with past calls it’s important to note that we have restructuring non-routine expenses non-routine income and impairment charges in our results.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company’s baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our Web site.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
Now with the opening remarks I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining our call today.
Once again we delivered sound performance during the past quarter showing significant improvement in our profit margins particularly in our Services business and are delivering on our commitments to generate the majority of our earnings in the back half of the year.
We continue to effectively reduce our cost structure and drive improvements in our operations while focusing on more profitable business opportunities globally.
In addition North America continued to perform exceptionally well with high demand for our financial self-service solutions.
Given our market improvement of profitability and the continued strength in our North American business we have increased confidence in our earnings outlook for the remainder of the year.
As such we are raising our full year EPS guidance to $2.15 to $2.25 per share.
Total revenue for the third quarter decreased as we continue to be selective in the markets in deals we pursue particularly in EMEA.
The security business for bank branches in the United States remains challenged.
However we have clearly improved our profitability through our continued focus on developing strategic relationships with customers and differentiating ourselves through high valued services.
In turn we expect a strong fourth quarter with year-over-year increases in orders revenue margin and EPS.
Our solid third quarter results combined with an expected strong fourth quarter provide us with momentum as we look to 2012.
During the quarter we had several key announcements regarding new innovations that help build the foundation to deliver even more value to our customers over the next several years.
In August we unveiled a prototype of the world’s first virtualized ATM at VMworld.
This is a very influential event hosted by VMware the industry leader in Cloud computing and virtualization technologies and is attended by thousands of global IT professionals and decision makers worldwide.
Developed in collaboration the virtual ATM prototype removed onboard computer from the terminal assigning each machine in a fleet to centralize computing resource.
The result is now at a consolidation ensuring resources through our self-service network but also across delivery channels.
This opens the door to more effective channel orchestration.
In short virtualization will lead a lower total cost of ownership and increase ATM uptime.
The virtualization concept has not only generated a significant amount of media coverage but more importantly it has spawned a number of thought leadership discussions with strategic customers around the world.
Virtualization represents an important milestone on Diebold’s roadmap deleveraging cloud computing technology in the financial space and will fundamentally change the way solutions are deployed in the marketplace.
This technology is game-changer for our industry.
Also in August we announced the Opteva Flex Performance Series.
The most robust of service terminal we’ve ever offered it combines traditional deposit automation capabilities including bulk cash and check-accepted with full currency recycling the first in our industry.
It can be configured with a separate cash dispenser and recycling module all in one ATM.
This makes it well-suited for deposit automation intense market such as Latin America Asia and EMEA and as the North American market for deposit automation continues to evolve the Flex series puts us in a very strong competitive position.
We dramatically improved reliability and flexibility of these terminals enabled financial institutions to transform the way they mage cash at the ATM including efficiencies decreasing cost and minimizing the administrative burden.
All the customer feedback on Flex has been extremely positive particularly in our key growth markets.
In September I attended a customer event in Turkey in which the Flex series grew intense customer interest.
We also conducted customer events in Mexico and elsewhere in the world where Flex created a great deal of conversations.
So we are very encouraged by the level of response we are seeing in the marketplace.
In services we continue to innovate by growing our integrated services offerings.
We introduced the concept of integrated services more than five years ago.
Since then it has grown exponentially and is changing the way financial institutions think about the retail banking operations.
In the U.S.
for example the banking landscape assisted dramatically over the past two years.
This has created a level of operational complexity that is driving more financial institutions to consider an outsourcing approach.
Integrated Services enables them to meet regulatory requirements and offer the customers our latest technology.
This environment has resulted in another record quarter for Integrated Services business.
In the United States the company signed new IS contracts during the quarter valued at nearly $19 million an increase of more than 200% over the prior-year period.
On the security front we believe there is equal if not greater potential for an integrated services approach.
The necessary technology to tie together physical and logical security systems has grown very complex and is creating a compelling case for an outsourcing model similar to what we built in our ATM business.
We’re adapting to this need by building an industry leading IF offering which we plan to launch in early 2012.
We have very strong capabilities internally that we are leveraging to build a comprehensive portfolio of services.
In fact we earned the 2011 Online Trust Alliance Leadership Award for Excellence in Security Practices.
This award acknowledges us for rigorous testing and validation of critical security technologies solutions and services and data and information security.
This type of third party recognition provides early validation of our strong IS capabilities in the security area.
These and other recent innovations demonstrate that Diebold continues the lead in our industry and build a robust technology pipeline to support a broad portfolio of services as we move forward.
Now let’s take a closer look at our performance on a regional basis.
In North America total revenue during the quarter increased 4% while overall product and service orders grew about 11% in the region.
We’re looking at just product orders for financial self-service in the region.
We saw an increase around 85%.
In fact U.S.
Regional bank product orders and financial self-service once again increased well in excess of 100% and the expected revenue is beginning to materialize as we approach the end of the year.
Customer demand continues to be driven by regulatory acquirements and deposit automation.
In fact during the quarter our shipment for deposit automation in North America increased nearly 50%.
Deposit automation shipments in the regional bank segment increased more than 200% during the quarter and are up 150% year-to-date.
This demonstrates that the market recognized Diebold as the fastest most reliable deposit automation technology in the industry.
Our superior technology coupled with our best in class service organization and strong customer relationships enable us to maintain and grow our market leading position in the United States.
In summary we remain very optimistic regarding the state of the North American financial self-service market and are strong competitive position.
As our large backlog in North America converts to revenue in the fourth quarter we expect another strong quarter in terms of operating profit.
The region remains our most important and profitable market.
As such North America will serve as a primary catalyst for earnings growth for the remainder of the year and into 2012.
Looking at our Security business revenue decreased 6% during the quarter.
Our orders fell 9%.
These results are reflective of the continued distress nature of the physical security market for bank branches in the United States.
We expect this segment will remain weak well into 2012.
You will recall in my comments during our second quarter call that we made some significant changes in our U.S.
financial sales organization to grow the Security business.
We’ve moved some of our top enterprise security systems experts over to the financial group especially to focus solely on security sales to financial institutions.
And we are already seeing some more results of our refocused efforts as our security sales pipeline in the financial space doubled during the past quarter.
This progress is encouraging and we believe we now have the right strategy and infrastructure in place to more successfully pursue opportunities in this space.
It’s important to note however that the sales cycle on the security side is dramatically longer than on the ATM side of the business.
As such we don’t anticipate return of the Euro and Europe’s growth in orders or revenue in the security space until the second-half of 2012.
Now moving to EMEA revenue dropped 11% as the company continues to concentrate its sales efforts and fewer markets with higher profit opportunities.
Orders for products and services were down 31% in the period and a difficult comparison to third quarter 2010 in which orders grew 53%.
During the quarter we continued to make operational progress in EMEA once again significantly reducing our losses in the region to about $2 million.
We are now projecting profitability there in the fourth quarter.
On a macro level we’ve begun to see weakening demand in certain less European markets such as Spain and Italy while demand remains relatively strong in some of the emerging markets such as South Africa and Turkey.
Given the ongoing improvements of our operations and our growing confidence we can now achieve modes profitability in the region for the full year 2012 despite some of the weakening macro economic trends.
In Latin America including Brazil revenue declined during the quarter by about 30% while orders fell 12%.
Excluding election systems and lottery sales orders were essentially flat.
As I previously mentioned we have lowered our revenue expectations in Brazil for the remainder of the year.
This reflects the recent strengthening of the dollar against the business – the Brazilian reality and the timing of a couple potentially large orders that slipped into the fourth quarter and will not revenue until 2012.
We continue to feel very very confident with our market-leading position in Brazil.
Moving forward we have an opportunity to grow our share even further as one of the large banks in the country opens up its purchases to a broad base of suppliers for the very first time moving to the rest of Latin America the market remains very dynamic.
During the quarter we sizeable business in Venezuela Peru and Chili also services growth in the region has been particularly strong.
Now moving on to Asia Pacific revenue increased 48%.
However excluding an accounting adjustment in the prior-year period revenue increased 17%.
Orders for products and services declined 9% as a large order in China slipped into the fourth quarter.
However we received this order in October which positions us for a strong fourth quarter order entry.
Third quarter revenue growth in the region was driven primarily by our Integrated Services business particularly in India where we now monitor 40% of the ATMs in the country.
I’m very encouraged with this growth as it reflects our strategy to grow services aggressively in Asia and protect our profitability.
This enabled us to differentiate ourselves from the local hardware manufacturers that are driving down product pricing throughout the region.
In regard to the massive flooding in Thailand over the past week I wish to send my thoughts and sympathies to our associates who have been impacted by this disaster.
We have a very dedicated team of 500 people in Thailand and my heart goes out to them and their families.
From a business perspective we have mitigated any immediate impact on our supply chain though the situation is still evolving.
Given our performance in key markets and the increased profitability in our business we feel very confident with our earnings guidance for 2011.
As we look toward 2012 there are some items to consider in terms of planning and financial assumptions.
Overall we expect modest top line growth driven primarily by the Americas.
However we anticipate a drop in both revenue and/or remains associated with the Brazilian Election business.
In addition we anticipate higher pension expense.
On the plus side we expect modest profitability EMEA for the full year and demand and profitability remain strong in North America.
As I said earlier we expect to see growth in the Security business in the second half of 2012.
Finally we anticipate similar overall seasonality in revenue and earnings to what we had in 2011.
To summarize I continue to feel extremely confident in the direction we’re headed.
We’re delivering on the expectations we established throughout the year to generate the majority of our profit in the third and fourth quarters.
Our efforts to improve all aspects of our operations and continually deliver value added services are showing up positively from a profitability perspective.
Customer intimacy is fundamental to Diebold’s growth everywhere we compete around the globe.
We have proven time and time again that our core intellectual capital enables us to lead the industry in terms of innovation.
With our Flex series we continue to lead in the area of deposit automation.
We were the first to introduce the concept of integrated services and now we’re the forefront of virtualization in Cloud computing in the financial self-service space.
Diebold associates in the frontline are leveraging their thorough understanding of the market and our current perspective customers to help drive business and build value for our shareholders.
Their expertise and commitment gives me great confidence that we’re on the right track to a successful future.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Brad.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Before we review the financial results I will comment briefly on our profitability during the quarter our progress regarding our restructuring efforts in EMEA and our share repurchase program.
To reinforce Tom’s comments we have significant improvement in margin performance this quarter.
This is proof that our business strategies are beginning to take hold especially in our Services business where we have seen consistent improvement over the past several years.
We achieved this improvement despite lower revenue during the quarter from Brazil elections EMEA and our Security business.
Overall we expect to continue our improved profitability momentum into the fourth quarter which positions us well as we look to 2012.
We continue to execute on our restructuring efforts in EMEA.
During the quarter we once again significant reduced our losses in the region which amounted to about $2 million.
As I mentioned in our last call we’ve identified $8 million in cost reductions for 2011 and we are on track to hit that target.
Given our progress on restructuring and our core country focus we fully expect to turn a profit in EMEA in the fourth quarter.
I’m encouraged by the results we’ve generated to date and absent any further setbacks in the banking industry I’m more confident we are in a position to achieve modest profitability in EMEA for the full year 2012.
This expands our opportunity for consolidated year-over-year earnings growth.
Also during the quarter we were active in our share repurchase program.
Given the weakness in our share price earlier in the quarter and our growing confidence in the company’s future outlook we felt it was prudent to step up our share repurchase efforts.
We’ve consistently maintained that we would be opportunistic in our approach and during the quarter we repurchased 1.7 million shares at an average cost of $27.55 per share leaving just 700 000 shares on the current board authorization.
We intend to continue to be opportunistic in our share repurchase program for the remainder of the year.
Now to review our financial results for the quarter let’s turn to Slide 17.
Total revenue declined 5.2% with 3% positive impact from currency.
Product revenue declined 13.8% while service revenue increased 3.2%.
As I already mentioned the decrease in product revenue is primarily the result of a $43 million decline in elections and lottery revenue in Brazil from the third quarter of 2010.
The order picture outside of North America in the third quarter appears weak due to timing in various areas particularly China and Brazil.
However we expect fourth quarter worldwide orders in our Financial Self-service and Security businesses to be up significantly with year-over-year growth in virtually every region of the world.
This sets us up nicely as we build momentum for 2012.
Looking at our financial Self-Service business on Slide 18 third quarter revenue increased 2.6% growth was primarily the result of strength in North America driven by regional banks’ adoption of deposit automation solutions and addressing regulatory requirements.
In the Security business on Slide 19 third quarter revenue declined 6.3%.
The market for bank branch security equipment continues to negatively impact our overall revenue.
Within the financial industry where we have significant brand equity we continue to focus on growing our Enterprise Security business as well laying the groundwork for Integrated Services.
As Tom indicated in his comments we’ve seen a significant increase in our sales opportunity pipeline and we anticipate returning this business to top line growth in the second half of 2012.
Looking at Slide 20 the total gross margins at the third quarter was up 1.4 percentage points.
Product margin increased due to a more favorable customer and geographic mix particularly in the Americas and EMEA.
The service margin grew mainly from continued productivity improvements and cost savings initiatives during the quarter.
Moving now to non-GAAP operating expense as highlighted on Slide 21 third quarter operating expense as a percentage of revenue was 19.1% up 100 basis points from the prior period on lower revenue.
On a dollar basis however operating expenses decreased from the prior-year period.
We expect that trend to continue in the fourth quarter despite an increase in R&amp;D investments as we continue to focus on tight cost control.
For the full year we expect operating expense to be around 19% of revenue.
Now turning to Slide 22 the non-GAAP operating margin in the third quarter was 8.2% representing our highest quarterly operating margin in nearly three years.
As Tom noted these results clearly show our commitment to reducing our cost structure while focusing on more profitable business opportunities globally.
We expect fourth quarter operating margins to exceed 8% which will result in a full year operating margin of around 7%.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on Slide 23 non-GAAP EPS moved from $0.73 per share in the third quarter of 2010 to $0.69 per share in the current quarter.
Our non-GAAP tax rate moved from 25.2% in the prior period to 21.2% in the current quarter.
This is due to a favorable outcome from an IRS audit which resulted in a discrete item that lowered our tax expense.
As a result we now expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 26%.
Turning to Slide 24 free cash flow for the quarter was $30 million compared with free cash flow of $57.5 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The decrease in free cash flow is primarily the result of a significant increase in inventory in support of our forecasted fourth quarter revenue.
As we look at the full year we anticipate normal seasonality with strong free cash flow in the fourth quarter.
For the full year I still anticipate we will generate around $150 million in free cash flow supported by stronger earnings inventory draw downs and a normal pattern of accelerated collection towards the end of the year.
Looking at Slide 25 and 26 the day sales outstanding increased from the prior year period by one day.
Inventory turns decreased from the third quarter of 2010 again as we accommodate the substantial revenue we expect to deliver in the fourth quarter.
Working capital remains a top priority and we anticipate seeing normal seasonal improvements in the fourth quarter.
Turning next to liquidity and net debt on Slide 27 net debt was $232.2 million an increase of $57.8 million from September 30 2010.
The increase in net debt during the third quarter was primarily the result of our share repurchases.
Our net debt to capital ratio was 22% at September 30 2011 compared with 14% in the prior period.
We expect to generate the majority of our cash flow during the fourth quarter and anticipate the net debt at year end of approximately $50 million.
This is an impressive leverage position considering that it concludes during the calendar year around $75 million in dividend payments and over $100 million in share repurchases.
In terms of the outlook for 2011 on Slide 28 we are revising our revenue outlook to reflect lower financial self-service revenue expectations in Europe and Brazil.
This reflects the recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar as well as the timing of some orders which have pushed revenue into 2012.
We now expect total revenue to be essentially flat with financial self-service revenue increasing 2% to 4% and security revenue unchanged from our previous guidance which is flat to down 3%.
Given our improved margins increased confidence in the fourth quarter and a lower tax rate we are raising our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance to be in the range of $2.15 to $2.25 per share.
As we move into 2012 I am confident in our ability to deliver solid results with our backlog and orders providing a sound foundation for growth.
With that in mind as Tom indicated in his remarks we have provided some considerations as you start to think about modeling 2012.
One additional point to consider regarding top line growth is that we continue to be disciplined in the type of business we pursue in order to drive return on capital employed to 15% in pursuit of building long-term shareholder value.
As a result we have consistently demonstrated our willingness to trade revenue growth for profitability.
To conclude I am encouraged at the direction we are heading.
This is supported by extensive strategic work we’ve done related to our business in EMEA our security operations and our global financial Self-service business.
In addition the operational strength we have developed are effectively driven execution on our cost savings initiatives.
Our restructuring efforts in Europe are providing a solid foundation for the region moving forward and our processes for financial controls are sound.
These factors coupled with our financial strength provide me with a tremendous sense of confidence as we look to capitalize and execute on the core strategies that we have put in place.
With that I’ll turn it back to John.
Thanks Brad.
Dana we’d like to take our first question at this time.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our first question from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Morning.
Tom as you look at the North American market now specifically the U.S.
market and the orders you’re seeing in the regional banks and maybe some of the conversations you’ve had with your customers any sense of how long you think that upgrade cycle could last? Kartik let me put it in two frameworks.
One would be in terms of what’s happening from the compliance standpoint.
Obviously there’s a lot of activity that’s tied to compliance that they have some deadlines here in the first and second quarter of next year and so I think that’s been a big driver.
But as you can see for us it’s been four consecutive quarters now from a regional bank’s base of seeing product orders up well in excess of 100%.
The comp will get more difficult in the fourth quarter but we still see a very strong fourth quarter ahead of us.
The other piece of that I’d look at in terms of deposit automation which I think is another key driver underneath that.
The way I’ve been framing that up is if you look at the big banks in top 25 versus the smaller banks and credit unions we’re seeing heavy activity with credit unions and small banks.
The top banks you’d say maybe are 40% of the way or 50% of the way in terms of completing this rollout when you look at the total opportunity there.
I think with the credit unions and the smaller community banks we’re probably only 20% 25% of the way there.
I think deposit automation for me is a much longer turn.
People are going to get themselves equipped relative to compliance immediately.
But the issue on deposit automation and integrated services both of those I see underlying strength for quite a period of time.
Then Tom as you look at EMEA what are you anticipating for a loss out of the region for 2011 now? It seems like you were ahead of plan on your restructuring and that might have been the result that the orders were less than expected out of EMEA.
I was just wondering if you could update us on where you on in terms of restructuring and what you expect for a total loss out of the region.
Sure.
Certainly all of the reasons for us we continue to work the hardest there in terms of making sure that we’ve got clear and good understanding because of our performance in the past.
As you’ve seen throughout the year we’ve been able to reduce our losses.
My expectation would be that the fourth quarter yields some type of modest profitability maybe $2 million or the $5 million range.
In essence we think about that in terms of 2012.
Depending on where the fourth quarter comes in that’s about probably a $0.10 or so pickup for us in 2012 as we think about getting to breakeven point for the full year in 2012.
We’re seeing positive signs.
We need to see more of them.
We need to string more performance together in EMEA because of our position there.
But we think we’re on the right track.
I think that’s kind of the dimension I would think about it in.
Then just one last question Tom on Brazilian elections.
You mentioned in your slide that you expect a drop in revenue and earnings.
I’m wondering.
Is the drop in revenue earners mean that it’ll go to zero? Or are you expecting some revenue in earnings out of Brazil in 2012? Any way to kind of give an idea in a range? Yes.
I think we’ll have a much better answer for you on the next call because we’re in the process right now of finalizing production right now.
It’s going exceedingly well.
They are in the process and have notified potential suppliers that they are going out to a bid process again.
Probably in the late November/December timeframe we’d have some better insight.
We’re modeling in.
It doesn’t go to zero.
We’re thinking about half of what it was this year.
Again I think we’ll have a much better perspective on this on the next call.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate it Tom.
And we’ll take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Morning.
A couple of questions.
First as we think about either sequentially or year-over-year however it’s easier to talk about the improvement you’ve seen in both gross profit on the product and services side is there any way to sort of frame how much of that is being driven by cost takeout versus mixed improvement versus maybe input costs going against you? I’m not sure.
I’ll look to Brad.
I’m not sure I’d have a solid answer to break out that definitely right here Matt.
Maybe the way I would respond – and again I think you can see that for the full year roughly our product margins are going to be in the 25% range service margins 27%.
I would think of the product margin certainly we have ongoing costs but that’s driven by mix where the service is certainly where you’re seeing the continued drive of cost-cost savings Matt.
Then with regards to the comment on Europe making money in the fourth quarter I’m just trying to clarify.
Is that really a change in how you were forecasting the business? Or is that more a reflection of seasonality there? I’m trying to gauge what I guess has evolved over the last 90 days that makes you comfortable committing to that I guess.
Yes.
I would say first of all seasonality always plays a big role in our business overall in EMEA more so than anywhere else just because of the way the EMEA market is for us.
Second of all I would say it has firmed up.
For us we’re not talking about a major slaying but we’re talking about really more confidence.
We were talking about trying to get a run rate of profitability or a run rate of zero to 0.02 and we think we’re going to do a little bit beyond that.
I’d say it’s firming up and then also it’s just timing as well.
You saw in the third quarter revenue was down.
Some of that has to do with just some delayed installations that now move into the fourth quarter.
It’s going to assist our fourth quarter but really doesn’t change our overall premise there.
Then just lastly if you look at the backlog that you guys have been building up in this small bank market how much visibility with that customer base if you look at just where your backlog is today do you have into 2012 at this point? I guess what I’m trying to get a feel for is how much of those 100% plus order numbers that you’ve had for the last year how much of that is revenue at this point? I would say we still have quite a ways to go relative to the revenue side of the equation unlike maybe the larger banks where you’re mapping out 6 9 12 months with a lot of the credit unions and smaller banks.
It takes a little bit longer to revenue because you’ve got to work through maybe a processor or a third party to help assist in that regard.
It takes a little bit longer thus I think we’ve got quite a ways to go from a revenue standpoint.
Again as I indicated we’re expecting a very strong fourth quarter relative to this same space again.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow-up on that.
The U.S.
ATM business is the most important business.
It has your highest margins.
What revenue growth rates do we have for that business not just on the regional side? That entire U.S.
ATM business what growth rates do we have now? Is the fact that you’re selling a lot of these smaller banks to move services deals integrated services deals mean that that growth rate can carry on into next year? Gil it was a little bit hard hearing.
I don’t know if that’s the phone or the connection.
I think the essence of what you’re asking about is maybe the underlying strength of North America and the growth rates going forward.
Yes.
The growth rates for U.S.
ATM.
What are those revenue growth rates for U.S.
ATM right now? Can those carry into next year based on the ramp of the Integrated Services business? Yes.
Let me answer the back half first.
Really the growth rates in terms of carrying into 2012 absolutely.
With the kind of backlog that we’re talking about and where we’ve been and where we’re going we think we’re going to be in very good position there.
I would say when you look at it specifically in terms of regional banks and community banks and credit unions the half of the universe that you would call outside of the top 25 those growth rates have been the 10% to 15% range.
I would expect that we would continue to see that from a revenue standpoint as we go forward.
Then the second half of the year we would expect in North America specifically to start seeing some pickup and growth on the security side as well.
Then on Brazil in terms of the business that’s available there NCR announced that they have the Bradesco business.
Are there other large banks that have activity there that you think you could have some wins at the end of this year going into next year? Absolutely.
Let me clarify Bradesco first of all.
Fortunately for us they certainly have an agreement with NCR but much like they did this year they ordered several thousand units from Diebold as well as some other non-ATM-like devices.
My expectation will be that we’ll continue to do business with Bradesco.
It certainly wouldn’t be the level that we have in the past since we probably have maybe 25 000 or 30 000 ATMs in that environment.
The second thing is in our relationship with Bradesco we didn’t get the service parts of that contract.
They have their own internal service arrangement.
I look at that very differently than I do some of the other banks where we’re not only talking about the technology and doing services but we’re also doing the critical piece of service.
We see pretty good opportunities here in the fourth quarter for us that we think we’re in very good position with relative to the Brazilian market.
We have traditionally done business with all seven or eight major players in the market.
I expect that to continue.
I would expect the waiting to be different going forward in terms of which banks and the size of those orders but we think the fourth quarter can be pretty good to us from an order entry standpoint in Brazil.
That’s great.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
This is actually Roman Leal in for Julio.
First on the European market can you give a little bit more color on the state of I think you called out Spain and Italy.
I may be mistaken but I think those are the two countries you called out.
Any more color on the market there? Is this broad-based weakness or just more competition? I use those two as an example.
I think the macro issues are the big overriding issues in EMEA that we are facing and the banks and the uncertainty of what’s happened there and the financial institutional structure there and all the issues that they’re facing is really the big driven there.
Unlike where we see the United States people have moved on to understand kind of the actions they’re taking there.
We still see capital being maybe tied up a little more than it had been.
But by the same token you’ve seen the improvement we’ve made relative to the type of activities that we have there and also the improvement in terms of revenue that’s more profitable for us.
As you look at our mix around the world we have much lower exposure in EMEA than we would in the United States so as such as the United States moves we’re going to move a lot more reflective of that.
EMEA I still think there’s some time to work through all of the issues that they have there.
As I mentioned we’ve seen some strength in maybe some of the emerging markets but the mature markets we still think it’s going to be a while before we really understand what the picture is and their movement to automation.
While we have some success there it’s smaller for us.
The most important success we have there is improvement profitability picture and that’s how we’re looking at it.
Got it.
I completely understand that it’s a smaller business there.
In terms of the suspend trends is it just that the fact that deposit automation are the major drivers here in North America and just not in Europe? Or is this more of a CapEx situation there? No.
The same drivers are there as in the U.S.
As a matter of fact in some areas they’re much further ahead in terms of automation.
This is more of a CapEx thing.
I think again for us you’ll see the fourth quarter we’d expect revenue and orders to be up in the fourth quarter.
Again some of that has to do with timing.
For me it’s much more the macro issues that are being addressed there.
We feel very good about refocusing back on select countries where we think we could make a difference and do it in a profitable manner.
That’s really our focus in EMEA.
Okay.
Then one last question on the Security business.
What gives you the increased visibility or confidence that that business model is going to show some positive growth in the second half of next year? I think a couple of things there.
First of all you split the business and say physical security versus electronic security.
When we report those externally you see them as one number and you see security going down.
In reality the electronic security has been relatively flat.
It may be not up a tick for the full year whereas you’re going to see physical security is actually down.
When we separate those two we’ve got confidence of what’s happening there.
The second thing is as you’ve seen we’ve been able to do some pretty impressive things outside the financial industry.
We talked about the results we’ve had in the World Trade Center and the World Trade Center transportation hub and some of the most sophisticated buildings around the world that we have some expertise in.
We’ve taken those same capabilities and oriented them back now to the financial sector.
As such when I talked about our pipeline growing our pipeline with financial institutions we’re not taking our enterprise security and our logical security skill sets to the financial space.
I think we’re meeting with very good conversations and I think very good success.
While it may take longer for some of that to turn into actual orders in revenue and that’s why we’re talking about the second half of next year based on the conversations and the opportunities that I personally have been involved with I know the capabilities we have and the interest level back through our sweet spot which is the financial institutions.
We feel very confident what we can do there going forward in 2012.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to Zahid Siddique with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Hi.
How are you? Good.
A couple of questions.
The first one is on pensions.
I know you talked about higher pension expenses in 2012.
If you could give us some color around that.
Yes Zahid.
Let me just start off with a reminder of our pension situation.
Our qualified plan we were roughly underfunded about $50 million as we finished out 2010.
We have a pretty strong funding situation of the plan.
What is driving the potential increase in the pension expense is the change in the discount rate which has raised the overall present value if you will of the benefit obligations.
This year we saw kind of a $5 million increase again driven by lower discount rates.
I think for next year $5 million is probably a good placeholder.
What is the discount rate for 2012 versus 2011 versus 2010? I would rather not get into the details of what it is but just in aggregate it’s been going down by about a percent per year the last couple of years.
Okay.
Great.
Any updates on the SCPA progress? Yes.
What we’ve been reporting to you is basically that we plan to kind of wrap up our internal review towards the end of this year.
We’re on track to do that.
Then our plans are to sit down with the SEC and Department of Justice and try to resolve this matter.
I can’t predict obviously at this point how that process will work.
We’re on track to complete our internal review as we previously disclosed.
That is by the end of this year in general? The internal review by the end of this year.
Correct.
Okay.
Then you don’t have a sense of when the full review will conclude? Sometime maybe in 2012? Again our review will be done but again we have to sit down and obviously discuss this with the SEC and the Department of Justice.
Again I just can’t predict at this point how that process will unfold but I suspect it will obviously spill into 2012.
Sure.
My last question is on the margin.
I noted the gross margin improved in a sizeable manner in the quarter.
Looking out into the next several quarters is that something that you believe would be sustainable? Certainly what I would say is we continue to show nice progression if you will on our service margins.
We would expect service margins to continue to improve.
At the same time as you know although our product margins have been strong that’s really being driven by mix.
There’s going to continue to be price pressure globally on our product margin.
I wouldn’t say that we’re going to continue to see significant improvement in the product margin side of the business.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go next to Paul Coster with JP Morgan.
Thank you.
I think most of my questions have been answered.
However integrated services as it applies to securities can you just explain to us what this is and what it does in terms of revenue model and visibility in time? Yes.
It would be comparable to what we’re doing on the ATM side.
Let me kind of reflect on that first and then I can take you to the security piece because it might be easier to understand.
If people have been dealing with again we introduced these concepts four or five years ago.
In Brazil we actually introduced them 10 years ago.
In essence people outsourcing their ATM network to us which includes governance.
It includes audit.
It includes running the ATM itself processing transactions routing transactions.
It includes software downloading software and the whole bit.
In essence we take over the operational side of running the business for them.
When you think of the Security business think of the same thing.
Today we already do quite a bit of monitoring for banks.
Most of that monitoring we’ve been doing is associated with a retail bank branch.
You take that same concept and realize that security now is moving like the ATM business has been in terms of everything is networked.
Everything is connected and everything is IP based.
Now we’re going back to institutions and really looking at – many institutions today still do their own monitoring.
They run their own networks.
That could be just burglary.
That could be fire and burglary.
That could be energy.
Over those tracks of the monitoring whether it be events and also the video aspects of that we’re now looking at handling all of that for institutions.
We have several institutions that have an increased appetite of us to do that as they face cost structural issues as a result of what banking is undergoing here in the U.S.
You can pick up the paper every day and people are talking about them focusing back on our core business.
What can they do? There are pieces of their operation that we can actually take off their hands.
We don’t have to run their whole security operation.
It’s really the technical IP pieces.
It generally starts from a bank branch network but then you start thinking about their operation centers.
How do they handle that? And so we have now been able to leverage what we have done with big facilities like the World Trade Center and building on that capacity and doing the same thing for a large complex building as well as many diverse facilities that a bank would have.
In essence they’d be turning those capabilities over to us and we see a big appetite for this much like we did five years ago when we introduced that concept in the U.S.
It took several years on the ATM side to get the traction but now we’ve moved quite a few of our people that are security experts into the financial space calling on financial institutions along this line.
And again as I mentioned our pipeline has improved dramatically as a result of this.
Thus we know there’s really a market for it and the competencies that we’ve developed both on the ATM side as well as what we were doing previously in terms of the security infrastructure is there.
If people come to Canton when we have customers to visit we take them up to a center where we monitor things 24 hours a day seven days a week and just adding onto that is going to be what we do on the security side of the business.
Does it change the revenue model at all? Yes.
In essence what it does is most of these contracts end up being multiyear contracts.
What it ends up being is relative to being a run rate for a two or three year period that we have operational kind of contracts for.
It becomes much more steady services rather than a onetime product sale.
It helps the Service business grow and services grow.
Second of all it helps in terms of margins and the consistency and quality of earnings.
Lastly just to be clear here you earlier said that the physical security market is down.
Is it intentionally excluding that from scope? No.
This would say this basic premise is going to apply across the board.
It’s just our opportunity is really going to be the electronic IP base kinds of things not necessarily on the physical side of things but again if the physical side of branch building and that activity every picks up we’ll be in a good position to take advantage of it.
Really the growth that we’re going to see is really going to be on the IP electronic security side in the financial space.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
First I want to talk a little bit more about free cash flow.
In order for you guys to get to $150 million you need about $250 million in free cash in the fourth quarter.
Just looking at Slide 24 you’ve never really been quite that strong.
I guess Brad can you help sort of define or maybe put in buckets how you bill to that 250 number and I guess what your degree of confidence is there? Yes.
I can just help you maybe Matt with the math how about 240.
I know you were trying to be big picture but every dollar is going to count here.
I think you point out obviously this is steep hill to climb.
Let me say a couple of things.
One is in the fourth quarter again in that 240 we are working on a modest size tax refund that we expect to come in.
That’s going to provide support for the 240 number.
I would also say that we’ve spent 2011 looking very very hard at our underlying processes specifically for example here in North America working on our annual maintenance billing process.
We think we’ve done a lot of improvement in that.
Again we think that will provide a year-over-year improvement in our overall collections.
That’s just an example of process work that we have going on and it’s going on globally to really help us meet this target.
Then Brad maybe just a follow-up on the inventory side of things.
Given the timing on the Brazilian elections and some of these other orders coming through would you say inventory is going to be the biggest kind of component of that? Or would these other items that you just highlighted with me? No.
I think the inventory you can see from our cash flow in the quarter we built nearly $50 million of inventory which again will be drawn down heavily in the fourth quarter.
Again I think it’s a combination of again the process work on our collection tax refund the underlying earnings and then obviously the significant draw down in our inventory.
Then as we think about 2012 is there any sort of framework you can throw out there Brad as a placeholder for what we should be thinking in terms of an effective tax rate? I guess as you guys are talking to the board would you anticipate reloading that share repurchase for 2012? Yes.
I think the effective tax rate again this year we had guided the 28%.
We took it down again as I mentioned in terms of the settlement of the past audit.
But I think the 28% is a good placeholder and in particular because we will be driving more earnings out of our North American business here in the near-term which has a higher effective tax rate.
I still think the 28% that we’ve been using is a good long-term proxy.
As it relates to our share repurchase program again we’ve got 700 000 shares left on that.
This is something that we review with our board on a quarterly basis and would be looking to do that after we’ve completed the year.
We understand how our cash generation has come out and we also understand what kind of our acquisition pipeline looks like.
We have good capacity here and we’re wanting to make sure we maintain capacity to continue to be able to invest in the business.
That’ll be an early 2012 discussion with the board.
I think the other thing Matt in that regard is when you think of how we’re thinking about it first of all is we’ve got a lot of opportunities we’ve talked about in terms of innovation here.
Reinvesting in the business from an R&amp;D standpoint and marketing standpoint becomes very high priority for us as we go forward and again want to keep changing the game.
We’re talking about adding services as we build these infrastructures.
I can see us continuing to invest heavily on that front.
Certainly we’re committed to the dividend the M&amp;A activity as well.
We’re going to look at it holistically.
Certainly it’s been an important part of our plan this year.
It’ll probably play a role going forward.
I want to make sure we look at it holistically.
Thanks guys.
And with no further questions in the queue I’d like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Kristoff for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Dana and thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
Just one additional note before we sign off here.
I wanted to mention that the Diebold Investment Community and Industry Analyst Conference has been scheduled for February 22 and 23 in New York City.
Save-the-date announcements will be going out in early November with more details but I just wanted to put that date out for you here this morning.
Thanks again for joining us.
As always if you have follow-up calls please don’t hesitate to reach out to us directly.
Again that does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Diebold Incorporated Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I’d like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold’s fourth quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Tom Swidarski President and CEO and Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we’ve provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Tom and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as with past calls it’s important to note that we have restructuring non-routine expenses non-routine income and impairment charges in our financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company’s baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a complete reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
As a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks john.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining our call today.
We closed 2011 on a winning note with strong performance in revenue growth and profitability across most regions.
Most importantly we delivered on all our prior commitments in several key areas.
First we delivered on our top line revenue commitment by growing 7.5% in the fourth quarter despite a 2% headwind from currency.
Second we generated about $5 million in operating profit in EMEA during the fourth quarter.
Third we exceeded the top end of our EPS guidance even when excluding the tax benefit from Brazil.
Finally our strong free cash flow generation during the quarter enabled us to exceed our full-year free cash flow guidance by more than $10 million.
These results speak to the improving health in our markets as well as our strengthening competitive position and continued operational progress.
Our strategy to leverage our capabilities in services software and innovation is beginning to pay dividends and its meeting the needs of our rapidly evolving markets.
In addition Diebold delivered significant growth in revenue and generated more than $250 million in free cash flow during the fourth quarter.
Our global financial self-service orders grew 17% during the quarter with growth in every region of the world.
The North American market continues to grow an impressive rate as demand remains strong.
As we look to 2012 I’m encouraged by how our business is growing and we’re developing new innovations to help drive further growth.
We will once again step up our R&amp;D investments in new solutions in 2012 that will help financial institutions reduce their operating expenses while attracting new customers.
Along these lines we continue to roll out new industry innovations.
During our last call we talked about several key announcements including the development of the worlds first virtualized ATM and the introduction of our Opteva Flex Performance Series.
These developments will help build the foundation for the types of solutions we need to – in order to deliver value for our customers and investors over the next several years.
To that end earlier this year we introduced yet another innovation.
In January I attended the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas where we collaborated with Verizon to introduce a concept for the worlds first 4G LTE enabled automated teller machine.
This ATM harness with the same technology used to provide high speed secured connectivity of laptop computers smartphones and other mobile devices and applies it to the ATM.
We were pleased with the positive reactions we received at the show.
Subsequently I’ve personally met with a number of important customers who are very interested in the 4G ATM concept.
The application of 4G connectivity represents a giant step forward in the way financial institutions monitor and manage their self-service networks.
The concept is a critical milestone on Diebold’s services roadmap paving the way for advanced services functionality.
By being the first incorporate 4G technology with the ATM we’re providing yet another innovation another innovative means to increase efficiencies enhance security and improve customer service.
It’s critical that we continue to invest in innovations such as these at a time when financial institutions face intense pressure to find new creative and secured ways to lower costs while attracting new customers.
In addition growth in service and services continue to add an impressive pace.
The total contract value of integrated services contracts we signed in 2011 alone exceeded half a billion dollars.
This growth underscores the softness of our strategy to transform Diebold into a software-lead services provider.
Recently we won the ATMs industry’s largest integrative services contract ever awarded in North America.
Its part of a comprehensive integrated services agreement with TD Bank.
We will provide a complete range of business process outsourcing services over the next five years.
We’ll support TD's multivendor network of more than 4400 ATMs across the continent and provide an enhanced ATM-user experience.
One of the critical factors in TD's decision making process was Diebold’s security capabilities.
As part of the agreement we’ll deploy ATM endpoint protection by Symantec as well as our own software deployment services to provide the latest system patches and updates required by PCI Compliance Standards.
These turnkey proactive technologies automatically analyze application behaviors and network communications to detect and block suspicious behaviors.
As we’ve communicated for many years services are the key ingredients for long-term value creation in our industry.
Our agreement with TD exemplifies a critical need banks have to focus on the cooperations.
Likewise it also demonstrates their recognition of the capabilities we’ve built in this space our knowledge of our customer’s business processes the breadth of our service organization and our growing electronic and logical security capabilities.
We’re building up our success in Brazil and North America to bring integrated services to key regions across the globe and remain very optimistic about the scope and potential of this business.
Now let’s take a closer look at our performance on a regional basis.
In North America demand for both products and services remains very strong.
Total revenue during the quarter increased 13% while overall product and service orders grew 14% in the region.
Looking at just product orders for financial self-service in the region we saw an increase around 55% in total including nationals and regionals.
And the growth in financial self-service orders does not include the impact from the recent IS wins at TD Bank.
Most impressive is that this increase is against a very strong comparison in the fourth quarter 2010 when total FSS product orders in North America increased around 115%.
Customer demand continues to be driven by regulatory needs to meet new ADA and PCI requirements and the need to provide high-speed reliable and efficient automated deposit solutions at the ATM.
While ADA requirements go into effect in March we anticipate strong order entry to continue at least through mid-year as many financial institutions we’re working to meet compliance standards throughout the remainder of the year.
Additionally deposit automation continues to be adopted at a healthy rate in North America.
For example excluding the three largest banks we’ve already completed their deployments our shipments for deposit automation in the U.S.
nearly doubled during the quarter.
This demonstrates underlying strength in the market beyond recent activity-related to compliance.
One such example we announced during the quarter in the regional space was Suncoast Schools Federal Credit Union.
We replaced 94 of the credit union terminals with advanced deposit automation Opteva ATMs.
We also replaced more than 100 cash dispensers and provided a variety of integrated services including advanced skimming detection.
With this new ATMs and incorporate rapid processing technology this progressive institution is again leading the pack and advanced ATM functionality and we’re doing it with Diebold.
In 2011 we capitalized on a robust recovery in the ATM market in North America to achieve significant increases in orders and sales and we expect these demand trends to continue in 2012.
In summary we remain very optimistic regarding the state of the North America financial self-service market and our strong competitive position.
Looking at our security business revenue decreased 6% during the quarter and orders fell 2%.
While our physical security business remains hampered by weak branch construction I’m encouraged by the increased order activity in electronic security particularly in the financial market.
In fact if you exclude the $40 million order related to the World Trade Center that we booked in the fourth quarter of 2010 total security orders actually increased about 30%.
This improved order book gives me confidence that we’ll begin to see revenue growth in the security segment in the second half of this year.
As I had mentioned in previous quarters the security environment is changing very quickly.
The necessary technology to tie together physical or logical security systems has grown very complex and it’s creating a compelling case for an outsourcing model similar to what we’ve built in our ATM business.
As I shared with you during our last call we’re adapting to this need by building an industry leading IS offering within our security business.
And we’re seeing some early results of our refocused efforts not only did our security sales pipeline for electronic security continue to grow we also closed a couple of multimillion dollar security IS agreements in the financial space during the period.
In addition during the quarter we were named the 2011 Systems Integrator of the Year by SDM Magazine an important trade publication in the industry.
Earning this award is a testament to our consistent successful delivery of comprehensive security solutions to our customers.
Our recent work on highly complex security projects has helped to augment our credibility and capability as the leading systems integrator.
So the progress we’ve made in electronic security is encouraging and we believe we’ve had right strategy and infrastructure in place to more successfully pursue opportunities in this space.
Our sophisticated security capabilities are also highly relevant and valued in a financial self-service industry as evidenced by our recent agreement with TD.
Moving to EMEA fourth quarter revenue dropped 18% as the company continued to execute on its restructuring strategy including existing some unprofitable segments of the business.
It’s important to note as a result of this strategies that we delivered on our commitment to turn a profit in EMEA in the fourth quarter.
This gives me confidence that our restructuring strategy has generated meaningful results.
Orders for products and services increased nearly 6% in the period when we experienced strength in certain markets in Western Europe and Africa.
This was partially offset by continued weakness in some Southern European markets such as Italy.
Eastern Europe remains a challenge for us as we work through build our business in Russia following our leadership restructuring there.
Notable wins during the quarter include the 1 000 Opteva units in South Africa more than 500 cash dispensers ATMs and other upgrades in France and 60 recycling units in Belgium.
Given our improving results I’ve growing confidence that we can achieve modest profit in the region for the full-year 2012.
In Latin America including Brazil revenue increased about 9% or orders decreased 13% in the quarter.
However excluding election systems and lottery sales orders increased 8%.
During the fourth quarter we signed a new contract with the TSE in Brazil that provides for the purchase of the 90 000 new voting terminals in 2012.
The TSE placed a firm order for 35 voting -- for 35 000 voting terminals in December in comparison to TSE ordered approximately 117 000 units in 2011.
While we anticipate securing orders for additional units under this contract we don’t yet have clear visibility to the final numbers of units that maybe ordered.
This is reflected in our guidance range which Brad will cover in his comments.
In the financial self-service space in Brazil we continue to feel very confident with our market leading position.
Most recently we won a bid to supply more than 3 800 ATMs to Caixa Economica Federal the second largest bank in Brazil.
Diebold was ordered 100% of the bid which involves supply installation and on-site field services for the ATM.
This win as well as our recent agreement in November with Banco Santander for about 2000 cash dispensers are just the latest examples reaffirming our position as the clear market leader in Brazil.
And we’re confident in our ability to win a number of other large opportunities as we progress through the year.
Looking to the rest of Latin America the market remains very active throughout the region.
During the quarter Mexico and Columbia were particularly strong in terms of winning new business.
We continue to maintain solid leadership in Latin America and are well positioned to capture a significant amount of the growth expected to occur there in 2012.
Now moving on to Asia Pacific revenue increased 14% in the fourth quarter while orders increased 21%.
Revenue growth in the region was especially strong in China due primarily to expected year-end seasonality.
While demand remains robust in the region product margins continue to be pressured by increasing competition and price erosion.
We recognize that the long-term value in this region and across the globe lies in services.
Value added services such as managing complex ATM networks and operations enables us to differentiate ourselves from the local hardware manufacturers prevalent throughout Asia.
Our strategy is to invest in building a sustainable service model to help ensure our long-term competitive position in the region.
For instance we continue to make strides in India where we now monitor a 40% of the install base of ATMs in the country.
So while the market landscape remains very competitive in Asia particularly in China we’re excited about our strategy to expand our services portfolio throughout the region.
This is the foundation upon which we will build our competitive advantage in this challenging environment.
Given our growth and increased profitability as we close out the year I feel optimistic regarding our prospect as we look towards 2012.
We expect moderate top line growth overall with a higher growth rate in the Americas despite a drop in both revenue and earnings associated with the Brazil elections business.
As I mentioned earlier we also expect to achieve modest profit in EMEA for the full-year and expect to see growth in the security business in the second half of 2012.
Finally we anticipate similar quarterly seasonality in revenue and earnings to what we had in 2011.
Given all these assumptions we expect total revenue growth of 3% to 6% and earnings per share of $2.30 to $2.50.
So to summarize I continue to feel extremely confident in the direction we’re headed.
We delivered on the commitments we made in 2011; I’ve not doubt in our ability to deliver in 2012 and beyond.
Moving forward the investments we made in our software and services capabilities will help us to build a more sustainable business model in terms of our competitive advantage profitability and top line growth.
And the timing of our strategy is spot on given the immediate need for financial institutions to optimize their retail banking channels and wisely invest our capital.
Our approach to the global markets in which we compete drive that results.
It is the commitment and passion of Diebold’s people in geographies as diverse as Turkey India China Brazil that fuels our success in the dynamic and diverse markets where we operate.
Their dedication and knowledge gives me great confidence that we’re on the right path to a thriving future.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Brad.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Before I get into the quarterly financial results and 2012 outlook I’d like to walk you through our other key topics.
We delivered on our commitments improved margins and progressed on our restructuring efforts in EMEA.
Earlier in the year we had quite a steep hill to climb given the backend loaded nature of our forecast and plan.
Looking back on the year I’m pleased we were successful in delivering on the commitments we made to our shareholders in terms of earnings growth free cash flow and 4Q profitability in EMEA.
Our improved margins this quarter are proof that our business strategies are continuing to resonate with the market as we continue to transform the company into a more software and services led business.
As proof of our restructuring efforts in EMEA we generated more than $5 million in operating profit despite an 18% revenue decrease in the fourth quarter.
This is the result of the improved quality of EMEA’s revenue providing us with continued confidence in our restructuring strategy in the region.
We are on target to achieve modest profit in 2012 assuming a relatively stable banking environment.
Now to review our financial results; turning to slide 17.
Total revenue was $850 million up 7.5% from the fourth quarter of 2010 with a 2% negative currency impact mainly driven by the Brazilian real.
For the quarter product revenue increased 9.4% and service revenue increased 5.5% with solid growth in financial self-service especially in the Americas and Asia Pacific.
For the full-year revenue was up slightly from 2010 with a decrease in product revenue of 3.5% and an increase in service revenue of 3.9%.
Excluding the cyclical Brazil Election Business product revenue would have been flat.
All-year revenue includes a net positive currency impact of 2%.
Slide 18 provides a year-end view of our product and service revenue breakdown and the improvement in gross margin with an 80 basis point increase in product gross margin and a 100 basis point increase in service gross margin.
Looking at our financial self-service business on slide 19; fourth quarter revenue was $640 million up 7.6%.
For the full-year financial self-service revenue was up 4%.
North America provided solid growth due to the strength in industry adoption of deposit automation and addressing regulatory requirements.
In the security business on slide 20; fourth quarter revenue was $171 million a decrease of 6.6%.
For the year security revenue was down 4%.
As Tom mentioned the strategy for the security business is to focus on growing our electronic security sales in the financial industry along those lines we saw modest growth in our electronic security revenue for the full-year which was more than offset by the decline in our physical security business.
We are also laying the ground work for what we believe will be considerable integrated service business within this space.
We anticipate the security business will return to top line growth in the second half of 2012.
Turning now to slide 21; the total gross margin for the fourth quarter increased 2.8 percentage points from 2010.
For the full-year gross margin increased 1 percentage points.
The product gross margin for the quarter was up 2.5 percentage points.
This increase was due to improved margins in EMEA in North America as well as a more favorable customer and geographic mix.
Service gross margin for the quarter was up 3.2 percentage points.
The increase is the result of a mix-shift towards higher value added services and continued productivity improvement.
Moving forward we have the opportunity for additional margin improvement in services through technology advances.
One such example is OpteView Resolve our predictive maintenance solution that predicts the failure before it happens.
In many cases we can resolve the issue remotely completely eliminating the service call which increases up-time and reduces cost.
Moving on to non-GAAP operating expense as highlighted on slide 22; in the fourth quarter operating expense was down 40 basis points from the prior-year due to operating leverage on higher revenue.
Full-year 2011 operating expense as a percentage of revenue was 19.5% up 0.8 percentage points from 2010.
This increase was primarily the result of higher selling and non-restructuring employee related expenses as well as research and development.
In 2012 we expect full-year operating expense to be in the 18.5% to 19% range.
Now to slide 23; non-GAAP operating margin in the fourth quarter increased to 8.9% from 5.7% in 2010.
The increase is largely due to the strong performance in North America as well as improved profitability in EMEA.
Operating profit margins for the full-year 2011 was 7% compared to 6.9% in 2010.
For 2012 we expect the operating margin to show a modest improvement.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on slide 24 as you can see on the chart non-GAAP EPS moved from $0.73 per share in the fourth quarter 2010 to $1.40 per share in the current quarter.
Full-year of 2010 non-GAAP EPS moved from 2/3 – $2.33 per share to $2.74 per share in 2011.
Both periods benefit from the release of a Brazil valuation allowance that I will talk to in a moment.
Our non-GAAP tax rate moved considerably from 17.3% in 2010 to 10.6% in 2011.
On slide 25 you will recall we have previously estimated our 2011 full-year tax rate to be approximately 26%.
Improved operating results in Brazil combined with a more favorable outlook for our core business in that country triggered the full release of a prior reserve on net operating loss carry forwards.
This was the main factor behind the lower tax rate for the year.
Turning to slide 26 free cash flow for the full-year was $161 million compared with free cash flow of $222 million in 2010.
Given our net cash used position at the end of the third quarter I am very pleased that we were able to exceed our projection of $150 million free cash flow for the full-year by more than $10 million.
When looking at the elements comprising our 2011 full-year free cash flow net income was $152 million depreciation and amortization was $80 million capital outlays were $55 million and the change in working capital with a negative $24 million in support to the backend growth of the business.
As a reminder 2010 free cash flow benefited from a $75 million tax refund.
On slide 27 we anticipate 2012 free cash flow will be around $150 million.
This includes $20 million increase in capital expenditures to about $75 million reflecting an increase in R&amp;D as well as IT infrastructure investments.
In addition to our dividend our primary uses of cash include a continued investment in the business through areas such as research and development possible bolt-on acquisition as well as an opportunistic approach to share buyback.
In 2011 we repurchased a total 3.6 million shares.
Our Board of Directors have added an incremental 2 million share authorization to our remaining balance of roughly 400 000 shares.
This standing authorization will enable us to repurchase shares opportunistically from time to time depending on market conditions.
Looking at slide 28 and 29 we improved our working capital position during the quarter.
Day sales outstanding decreased by one day from the prior-year to 37 days.
I am pleased with our DSO performance and I am confident in our ability to maintain DSO near these levels moving forward.
Inventory turns increased by 0.1 turns during the quarter versus the prior-year.
Moving next to liquidity and net debt on slide 30 we finished the year in a net debt position of $7.7 million at December 31 2011 compared to a net investment position of $35.1 million at December 31 2010.
I am pleased with this performance and the strength of our balance sheet.
To provide some additional context around our financial position since 2007 we reduced net debt from $325 million to $7.7 million at the end of 2011.
This was achieved even while we returned $343 million to shareholders in the form of dividends invested $280 million in capital expenditures and acquisitions spend $360 million on research and development and a $140 million on share repurchase.
Turning to the full-year outlook for 2012 on slide 31 we expect revenue to increase 3% to 6%.
Our expectation is that the financial self-service revenue will increase 5% to 8% while we expect security revenue will increase 1% to 4%.
Finally we expect Brazilian election systems and lottery revenue of between $60 million and $90 million.
We expect our full-year 2012 non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $2.30 to $2.50 per share.
Within this guidance we have several moving parts and assumptions as highlighted on slide 32.
First we expect a higher tax rate in 2012 of around 28%.
We anticipate solid core revenue growth as the financial markets continues its recovery.
Additionally we anticipate achieving the full-year benefit from our profitability improvement efforts in our EMEA region to positively impact earnings between $0.10 and $0.15 per share.
Items that will offset the benefits we anticipate from our core growth and improvement initiatives include higher pension expense and lower election systems revenue from Brazil.
On the FCPA front we have conducted a global internal review and will continue to monitor ongoing compliance with the FCPA.
We also continue to cooperate with the DOJ and the SEC in their ongoing enquiries into this matter.
In closing we’re encouraged by our position moving forward in 2012.
We’re confident in the strength of our markets throughout the Americas particularly the United States and Brazil.
Our restructuring efforts in EMEA are beginning to prove successful and we look forward to further reposition that business as the region continues to endure economic uncertainties.
Asia-Pacific continues to be challenging but we’re confident in our strategy to grow services in the region and remain competitive.
As we proved in 2011 by remaining committed to our planning process and executing consistently each quarter we improve progressively throughout the year.
I am confident that staying true to this approach will allow us to deliver on our commitments in 2012.
With that I’ll turn it back to John.
Thanks Brad.
Now before we go to questions I just want to take a moment to remind everyone that our Investment Community conference in coming up next week February 22nd and 23rd in New York.
So if you haven’t already signed up I’d encourage you to do so now.
And with that Tom if we could take our first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We will take our first question from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Good morning Tom and Brad.
Tom I wanted to ask you a little bit about the integrated services contract you recently signed and I guess I was more interested now you’ve had some great success in Brazil had great success in North America and I’m wondering is this model to something that you can port to other countries or is this a model that only works in a few countries and that’s where you will focus on? Kartik we firmly believe this model works everywhere in the world.
I think the adoption in different parts of world will be very different and as you see right now as the financial institutions in the North American continent were coming out of their financial crisis looking to take dramatic costs out of their operation.
It’s begun to accelerate very quickly here.
Likewise I think there is opportunities in other parts of the world as we continue to build our infrastructure and we’ve begun to setup IS centers around the world.
Even in a place like China where it’s very early on and we only have like – there are one or two relatively small customers there build our capabilities and hone that and for it to be a model that we used for our sales stand point it’s important as well.
So we see a lot of advantages there.
It’s also predicated upon a strong service organization in understanding how the service operation works.
So for us that’s the key pillar that we’re putting across the world.
And we think the backend systems that we’ve built in Brazil in the United States and also have now in India can be applied everywhere in the world.
So we feel very good about that ability and sustainability of that over the next 5 to 10 years.
And then on the security side of the business Tom it sounds like you’re having a good success on the electronic side.
Do you see a need to acquire some companies so you can continue the success and add some feature and functionality or are you at a point where you have enough of that and it’s just a matter of now executing on some opportunities? I think the way I’d approach it is this way.
The 2012 we look to be a breakout year for security.
So the second half of the year we expect to see electronic security really to start to demonstrate some growth both on using the IS concept and the sales focus we have in the financial industry.
We have won several what I’d call meaningful contracts to validate our approach there and that includes monitoring in all sorts of the services side of the business.
As we do that I think we would be looking for some potential acquisitions maybe medium size or small $20 to $50 type acquisition to help accelerate that growth.
But I feel regardless of we do an acquisition or not we’ve got our focus we got the capabilities and we are seeing early results in that regard and certainly when you look at the whole security category the physical security piece continuing to come down masks some of that.
But underneath that as we talk at the Investor Conference next week you will see – you will understand a little more about the strategies and the kind of successes we’re having which gives us pretty good confidence relative to the security business.
And then the last thing I’d add that I talked about on my script is don’t underestimate the power of the security and the sophistication of that that help us on IS on the ATM side.
That was a big factor in the TD decision process in terms of our understanding of physical logical and electronic security bring those together and impacting both the network but also other assets as well.
So that’s how I think about the security space.
And then just a last question Tom.
Do you expect – revenue expectations for Europe obviously that business is turning around and you’re going to – it’s going to be profitable for 2012.
I’m wondering what that assumes in terms of revenue expectation? Yeah so Kartik that really doesn’t have any real revenue growth in it.
I mean we’re looking at flat plus or minus one kind of thing so relatively flat there.
Our whole goal relative to the restructuring was to get ourselves organize better to make sure that the revenue that we do get is more profitable and in the right places and that we’re associated with the right institution.
So that’s really the essence there.
We think by doing that we’ll get better quality of revenue better quality of earnings and we expect modest profitability in 2012 as a result of the continuation of that effort.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Good morning couple of questions.
Tom you mentioned in North America you expect the order momentum you’re seeing that continues through mid-year or thereabouts.
What are customers at this point if anything saying about the back-half of the year saying about their spend post this ADA I am going to call it a deadline for lack of a better word but we all know its not really a deadline.
What are they saying about their level of spend once we kind of get beyond ADA and I guess; how do your incoming order rates and revenue that you’re generating in the small bank market compare to the prior cycle peak? Yeah Matt we’re spending as you might imagine a lot of time on that very question.
We continue to feel very strong relative to the activity after the compliance ADA PCI piece gets rolled out.
As you say it’s not a hard drop fast deadline there; so we expect really through the first half of the year to see continued activity relative to just those pieces as well.
But I think the encouraging piece underneath that that we’re seeing is a lot of people have upgraded for ADA and PCI but the deposit automation and IS activities as I’ve mentioned.
I mean we doubled shipments here in the fourth quarter compared to last year our order rates were exceedingly strong even compared to very high levels prior.
So we expect them to continue pretty well because that deposit automation activity as we look at the space we think has a lot of runway left in it and all the regional bank activity and all the visits we have are very squarely focused on that.
That then leads into the discussion on IS and really IS takes us into all the services surrounding that; so I feel very good about all the level activity throughout 2012 from an order flow standpoint.
As we think about you mentioned in Q4 having a favorable geographic mix customer mix; as we think about 2012 is there any reason that that doesn’t continued based on what you have in your order book now? No I’d expect that that general trend to continue in 2012.
And then just lastly in Asia Pacific is pricing actually getting worse of the magnitude of degradation that you’re seeing? Yeah I’d say Matt that you would say I think that the pricing environment we’ll kind of look at that every which way from Sunday large orders anywhere in the world you see pricing.
But you would say across the board in Asia the pricing activity and the level of competition there on the hardware side continues to deteriorate.
So we monitor that on a quarterly basis; we review it on our monthly reviews with each region of the world but I’d say that trend has continued and hasn’t abated.
At some point it will and we’ll be thankful when we hit that point but we haven’t seen it yet.
Thanks Tom.
We’ll take our next question from Zahid Siddique with Gabelli &amp; Company.
It’s on your guidance you’re guiding to a range of $2.30 to $2.50; that compares against $2.31 if you exclude the valuation allowance in 2011.
So my question is; why is that number $2.30 to $2.50 not $2.80 to $2.90 or $3; why such a low growth over 2011 what are the factors behind that? Lets flip to the – what slide do we've that on? 32.
Do you want to start? Yes Zahid I think if you – Slide 32 I think is the -- good place to begin.
I think on slide 32 what you can see is again if you excluded the Brazil valuation allowance; but if you just normalize our tax rate to 28% and apply that to the 2011 earnings you get about $2.20 per share; so on a constant tax rate basis we’re expecting a growth from $2.20 to either $2.30 to $2.50.
And you can see again on slide 32 there certainly are some positive things that we’ve talked about in terms of the revenue growth as well some of the mix issues that Tom just spoke to and certainly the positive impact of EMEA and all the restructuring that we’ve done there which is paying dividends couple of headwinds that we’re facing that we’ve been upfront about is certainly our pension expense just what's happened to the discount rate.
And then a significant variable on our guidance for next year is the level of orders that will come from the Brazil Election Authorities as Tom mentioned in his remarks we’ve got an order for 90 000 units but a firm order was placed for 35 000 units so there’s -- we're not exactly sure how much the Election Authorities will take so that’s a variable in our overall guidance.
So again strong tailwinds two headwinds one is being the pension expense and two being the variability in the Brazil voting revenues and associated profits.
And the Brazil voting EPS can range between $0.05 and $0.15 assuming revenues will be $60 million to $90 million range? Yeah that’s the decline versus – that’s the range of decline versus 2011 because 2011 we had roughly about $75 million in revenue from voting just from the voting side and a little over 115 000 units.
So again we’re projecting the overall units and revenues to be down in 2012 having an EPS impact of between $0.05 and $0.15 per share.
And Zahid if I can add on to where Brad kind of explained there so if you think last year we had 120 000 units in voting and you look at our guidance here we’re assuming the 35 000 which is the firm order what we’ve is kind of in the low-end the top-end would be the 90 000 that’s the possibility we could hit.
So it’s somewhere in there that its the difference in terms of how much we’re going to be below last year and that’s what the range of down $0.15 and down $0.05 on EPS it relates to.
So it’s kind of pretty straightforward in that regard.
Right.
Even if -- even then we exclude all of that why wouldn’t the EPS be higher than the 230 I guess even the 222 number that you give out with the normalized tax rate? Well the -- I think as Brad was indicating between pension between the pricing pressures in Asia-Pacific and really you’ve got some unknown such as fuel and other things that really impact us we think right now we’re prudent in terms of the 230 to 250 and as we go through the course of the year depending up on the level of activity and there is a lot of orders yet we need to win to achieve this we would adjust accordingly but we think this is the right place to start for the beginning of the year for us.
Okay.
And then did you buyback any shares in Q4 and what’s the plan for 2012? Yes we did we bought back about 200 000 shares in the fourth quarter.
And as I mentioned the Board authorized an incremental 2 million shares to our total outstanding authorization right now its 2.4 million shares.
And what we’re going to do is as I put in my prepared remarks is we’re going to be opportunistic in exercising that share purchase program over multi-period.
So we’ll be opportunistic as we look at our alternatives for our cash and also look at potential discontinuity that might take place in the marketplace from time-to-time.
Okay.
And last question on the security business of the $600 million in revenues roughly how much is electronic security and where are some of the products within that? So on the electronic security side it’s probably about 60% or -- is it 60% or 55%? It’s about 55%.
Okay 55% of the electronic then 45% will the physical side that includes both product and services.
In terms of the product offering there are probably some of the key anchors that I’d point you to Zahid when you think about it is really on the services side.
So we’ve got the monitoring center here in North America and several monitoring centers in other locations as well.
What we in fact are monitoring say alarm fire and other things that are attached to both enterprise-wide security as well as bank branch-based security.
The other piece I’d point to is on the electronic security side the integration piece is very important.
So we don’t necessarily manufacture any of the cameras or any of the access-control system but we much like an ATM network tie all that together either they monitor it or we monitor ourselves.
So we pretty much focus on both the enterprise-wide system which would be the big facilities like United Nations or World Trade Center and all the services that flow from that or in the banking space it would be regional banks that have maybe 20 or 40 or 60 or 80 locations and possibly do all the monitoring for them as well as services and integration.
And when we’ve the Investor Conference next week we’re going to really have a breakout session to go into this in great detail to give you a lot of color on the capabilities there as well as the product offerings as well as the opportunities.
Thank you so much.
And we’ll take our next question from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Yes good morning.
You’ve given a lot of very useful metrics and numbers around the success in the U.S.
but could you help us focus in what was revenue growth for the U.S.
ATM business in the fourth quarter? What do you expect that to be in 2012? Yes.
So Gil the U.S.
financial self-service revenues excluding the security revenue grew at about 30%.
The overall North American revenue was up about 13% but with the decline in the security side the FSS revenue was up about 30%.
For 2012? No I was answering your question for the fourth quarter.
Yeah.
And what do you expect that business to do in 2012? I just speak to the total FSS revenue for the corporation.
We’re expecting 5% to 8% total worldwide growth.
We don’t breakout the North American component.
Sure.
And then on integrated services it’s been a very good theme and you took a big leap forward now with the TD deal can you remind us when you look at a deal like that the five-year – big five-year integrated services deal what the increment on revenue is? So – how much more revenue you’re going to get over this five-years versus if you just sold the ATMs? And then same thing about the margins what – how did the margins compare over five-years and how do they trend over that five-year timeframe? Okay let me start with that Gil and make sure I get to all the various pieces.
So yeah let me start with the normal contract and then may be I’ll get to TD why we think TD is so important.
In a normal contract probably as part of the integrated services you get a piece of hardware you get service and then you get services and on a normal contract the breakdown would be the services pieces maybe 15% to 20% of the total value of the contract.
Toronto-Dominion is slightly different.
In Toronto-Dominion’s case probably 50% of the revenue is associated with software and the services side.
The hardware piece maybe only 20% of it and then you’ve a service contract that goes along with it.
So some of the key factors there that I mentioned was first of all Toronto-Dominion have the split network it’s not all Diebold technology so they’ve other technology in there.
So the piece of a contract that we’ve relative to hardware is just on the Diebold piece.
So if there is an opportunity there not in this contract that if we perform well and someone else isn’t it’s easier to replace someone else now because you’re in there for five years.
We’re in the backend system using the OpteView Resolve tools managing the entire network and the performance of their network.
So it’s our desire to improve every aspect of performance.
To do that OpteView Resolve understanding what’s happening in the terminals and the software to manage that and the security around that is all our responsibility.
Thus the outsourcing piece of the software and services being 50% is very encouraging to us.
Those are generally split over five years but the software and services tends to grow in the latter years whereas the hardware is more upfront in terms of you’re going to place a 1000 terminals you do that over the first two years software and services as you grow the level of sophistication on security would grow in the latter years.
As you might imagine the software and services margins are better than traditional product margins and the service margin.
And as a matter of fact in some of these I wont get into Toronto-Dominion but in some cases you may have your margins affected a little bit on the front-end by one or two margin points for four or five-year contract.
So in concept that’s the way it is.
It should mix as we move to software and services.
It should mix our margin higher thus you see the movement in terms of service overall which include services which have been relatively small continuing to march upward and we’ve that kind of success this year.
We’re pointing to get to our service margins in the 27% range for the full-year next year.
So again that will be a nice increase across the board these kinds of contracts and movement to this capability not only in the United States but elsewhere helps us get there.
That’s great.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Yes thank you for taking my question.
First one relates to the seasonality of the business.
You said that we should expect similar seasonality to 2011 though you also said that security will be a bit backend loaded.
So should we just feel even more pronounced in our expectations around that segment with more backend loaded? No I don’t think it will be more backend loaded than this year.
I think what we’re saying is the; we’ve come into this year there’s a lot of activity that will happen in the first half so our quarters will be slightly different its just when you look at it overall you would say its close to more normal seasonality where you’d say maybe the second half of the year it will 60% first half of the year is 40% or 65%-35%.
This year I think we were like 75%-25%.
So even though security would be more backend loaded we've a lot of activity going on in the first quarter and first half of the year from contracts that need to be fulfilled so I think more in terms of 40% first half of the year EPS 60% second half of the year.
Thank you.
Tom in your prepared remarks you talked about strong order activity even from nationals so let me singled that – them out.
What is the nature of the business you’re getting from nationals who many of us would have expected to have completed their upgrades by now? So the way we look at it; and the primary driver is really deposit automation and integrated services.
So when we look at it I really separate the top-three banks from the next 20 banks and you have kind of the next 1 000 you have the rest of them.
But when we’re talking about the big players it’s really the top 25 banks in United States so when you start going down that list up to the top three there’s two or three other major player’s right there that we think we’re in very good shape with and we’ve started to see some activity so many of those have a long way to go relative to the deposit automation.
So we think there’s a lot of activity that it can take place there as well as in the regional bank space over the next several years.
So these won't be just 2012 rollouts we expect these to happen over multiple years.
We’ve been in heavy test mode and small pilot rollouts with several of these and we would expect that to really start to see some type of order activity in the second - third quarter and rollouts to begin in the fourth quarter into next year.
And my last question is do you think the upgrade cycle for ATMs in North America in particular and for that matter the rest of the world that the upgrade cycle has tightened somewhat and if so can you sort of give us some sense of how frequently you expect it to be coming back to your customers now and upgrading either the whole piece of kit or modules within that? Paul I think the upgrade cycle is absolutely – continues to tighten.
And the reason I’d say that on the front-end is for instance integrated services one of the advantages they’ve in the integrated services is they’ve got a commitment to get new technology in a very refreshed updated periodic manner.
So the more that goes to IS the more that people are going to be upgrading around the 5 7 year timeframe.
From an overall market standpoint maybe I’d say up through last year if you went back several many years ago upgrade cycles took place every 15 years then I’d say it moved over the last 5 to 10 years in the neighborhood of 12 to 10 years and now I see it coming under 10 years.
And I think that’s globally as a result of deposit automation the technology then you talk about 4G and other things you can do to help improve or upgrade the capabilities or now that people are on deposit automation you want to refine that like you did to dispenser over time.
So for me I think the number is going to be under 10 the more we move to IS I think that number gets closer to 7; so somewhere between 7 and 10 years I think becomes the more of the normal I think the bigger banks might even be more aggressive than that globally.
So that’s how we’re thinking about it.
Okay thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Inc</strong> Good morning.
This is actually Roman Leal in for Julio.
I guess the first one on guidance can we perhaps try to gauge how much the growth in FSS orders in North America could be above and beyond the regulatory compliance? And maybe help us I don’t know if you can share just kind of a backlog number or how much of your revenue guidance for 2012 is kind of orders that you already have in the books and how much is coming from order activity there you’re expecting in the first half 2012? I can't give you that as an effect I don’t think I know that because we’ve been trying ourselves to decipher between if somebody’s placing an order for ADA PCI is this a moment on the upgrade cycle so for me -- once the deadline passes and we see the order activity after that we’ll be in a much better position to distinguish between the two.
Our sense is that there are a lot of people that were moving decided to move quicker as a result of having a deadline out there but quite a few of those folks did not actually move to complete deposit automation or did a component of it.
So then you get in a situation where we’ve got a lot of customers to be able to go back to and upgrade them to full deposit automation or potentially IS as kind of – as we move forward.
But my sense is there is a long runway yet for deposit automation in the regional bank space over the next several years it has nothing to do with compliance.
Compliance may have accelerated a little bit of the activity and decided to do everything at once but as banks are getting little healthier in the United States they’re deploying capital again relative to this network this valuable network and the fact that they’re moving transactions off the teller line and changing that branch and allowing the ATM to handle cash checks and everything else.
All of a sudden you’ve made a big dent in terms of the ability to really address their cost structure.
So we see good underlying trends for 2012 and maybe by the middle of this year we will have a much better insight as to what that’s going to look like to the next 18 months after that.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And do you have – what the current mix of software and services revenue is? And what do you have – and do you have long-term target for where you want that to ultimately go? Well our long-term target relative to – it include service and services as to have the recurring revenue streams in the neighborhood of 75%.
So when you look at our numbers today they’re at slightly over 50% somewhere in that range.
So we know where we want to get to long term we know how to get there.
The good news for us is that number may not move as quickly if we got huge product orders.
So we can live with that.
But that doesn’t change the track of for instance in the TD kind of conversation more of its mix to services and we see that across the board on all of our IS agreement.
Part of that has to do with the big change we’ve made over the last several years with our selling organization.
Part of it’s improving you’re selling organization your capabilities of your own folks so that you are able to get out in front of this.
And that’s why the security piece comes so important because that logical security both on the ATM and the security side is all based around services.
So for us there is a lot of capability growing internally to enable us to do that and we are going to gain continued confidence but our vision and our goal and very crystal clear as to what we’re driving to.
Inc</strong> Okay and last one from me.
The push to EMV or getting EMV adopted in the U.S.
can you help us kind of understand how that potentially impacts you and have you had any conversation in those very early stages right now? Yeah those are very early stage.
They have been so focused on ADA and PCI compliance.
At some point you would think the U.S.
one of the last bastions in the world need to be on EMV.
But again there is a lot networks a lot of people involved in that discussion and the potential -- in regard to that really was similar to what we saw on other parts of the world where in terms of encryption and other things you need in the ATM and the way you handle certain data it needs to be upgraded.
So it is not nearly the impact of deposit automation.
But again it’s another step towards software and services which fits very nicely with where we want to go.
Inc</strong> Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one final question today.
It comes from Dan Doliff with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
A quick question on Europe specifically.
How much of the uptick in orders was from an uptick in the market versus an improvement in the competitive landscape for you actually versus NCR for example? Thanks.
Okay so the way I’d do that is we see Europe has really been suffering in total.
When we looked at the competitor results I think they were all down relative to in order standpoint kind of going forward.
I mean we were up marginally in that regard on small numbers.
So we feel good about where we’re at that’s in spite of getting out of countries then you’ve got for us because the numbers aren’t enormous in Europe relative to our total revenue.
You’ve seasonality – you’ve fluctuations quarter-to-quarter so I’m not too worried about the competitive piece in – from Europe.
For us it’s a matter of us getting healthy on the cost structure being focused in certain countries that we’re now focused on returning profitability and revenue that drives profit.
So for us it maybe different than other folks and if we exit a country somebody else picks up that revenue that’s not really my concern.
So I didn’t see any numbers from anyone else relative to Europe in the self-service space that suggested anybody made any great progress there.
I saw a lot of negatives and so I will stack up pretty well in that environment.
I feel good about what we’re doing.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And it was our final question for today.
I’d like to turn it back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Thanks Tom and thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always if you have additional follow-up questions please do not hesitate to contact myself or Chris Bast.
Thank you and good bye.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Diebold Inc.
first quarter financial results conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold’s first quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Tom Swidarski President and CEO; and Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we have provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Tom and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
We have also included non-GAAP financial measures throughout our presentation this morning.
Specifically I refer you to slides 26 through 32 which provide GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations as well as our rationale for the use of non-GAAP measures.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results and as a precaution we refer you to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
As you’ve seen this morning we delivered solid operational results despite a difficult comparison for the same period last year.
And which we had particularly strong earnings.
In fact we exceeded our internal expectations during the quarter as some business closed sooner than expected and we benefited from a more profitable segment mix.
As a result we’ve gained more confidence in the full year outlook we provided during our last call and we are reaffirming our guidance for both earnings and revenues for 2010.
I am particularly pleased with the continued positive gains in our service and services businesses as we have put a great deal of focus on this area.
As the products business begins to stabilize growing and improving our services business further is paramount to our overall success.
Our continued investment in infrastructure for services particularly in the Asia Pacific region enabled us to improve service profitability once again during the quarter.
We are on track to achieve our goal to improve service gross margin for the third consecutive year.
Our competitive advantage lies in our unmatched stability to deliver a full range of service support and software solutions that work reliably at lower cost and with the flexibility to meet diverse customer demand.
That’s the driving force behind our service strategy emphasis in our core businesses and it’s the key to our future success.
Finally our net debt position improved by over a $100 million from 31 2009.
Brad will expand on this during his comments but from my perspective we’ll continue to focus on working capital improvement throughout the year.
Now look at our performance during the quarter and the market environment in the geographic regions.
You’ll note that we are now bringing out North America and our revenue disclosure.
North America remained a key market for us.
And we believe this new format will provide investors with more transparency and better understanding of our overall business.
Brad will discuss this in more detail during his remarks.
In North America revenue declined 17% and order sale 9%.
This expected drop occurred primarily in the national bank segment with the completion of large deposit automation deployments but major national banks credit a very challenging comparison.
From profitability standpoint however we benefited from a more favorable mix of business within the segment during the quarter.
I’m also encouraged by the year-over-year increase in financial self-service orders we saw at the regional bank level.
In fact first quarter regional bank orders also improved compared with the fourth quarter 2009 and it was the highest order entry period we’ve had in the regional bank space in five quarters.
While one quarter does not constitute a trend this is the first increase in orders we’ve seen in this space in quite sometime.
We’ll continue to monitor order activity in North America but our expectations remained that total revenue will decline modestly for the full year.
On the services side of the business revenue decline in the mid-single digits as a result of lower installation revenue.
Services revenue outside of installation grew during the quarter as we continue to increase our focus on a value added segment of our service business.
Along those lines I continue to be encouraged by customer activity and the level of interest we have been receiving in the integrated services portions of our business.
I recently visited with two important regional customers in the U.S.
and the information they shared with me underscore the validity of our strategic direction and integrated services and equally important our ability to execute.
Because of our track record over the years we have developed a great deal of trust within that segment of the market.
As these customers we focused on our core of banking business this confidence in our ability to take on aspects of their operations where we can drive improvements in technology efficiency and cost.
In addition we are continually building credibility within the industry as a result of our performance in this space.
Last week the international association of outsourcing professionals announced its list of the top 100 global outsourcing companies.
We ranked 15 on the list moving up from 35 on last year’s list.
There selected profits mere as much as the criteria of financial institution considers when evaluating service providers.
Placement on this list is the highest rated global financial self service company is a reflection of the timing resources we have committed to this area.
During the quarter we added more than $420 million in new integrated services contract to our existing base of which we had a profitably $100 million of remaining revenue at the end of Q1.
While we are still working from a relatively small base I’m very encouraged by the rate of which we are growing this business.
Looking at our security business in North America our outlook and the market environment remained largely unchanged.
The financial security market remains depressed as new brands construction continues to lag behind previous norms.
Although global revenues in orders were down from the previous year we are encouraged by some of the recent developments we are seeing in security.
For example in the enterprise security space we are working with a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA to set the ground work for streamlining identity credential and access management across that agency’s entire enterprise.
This initiative will help NOAA develop a viable solution for managing universal identities and access to settle facilities and systems.
We hope that these efforts will result in best practices for addressing security credential needs across multiple agencies and help the federal government jump start its credential management initiative.
In another development we partnered with Verizon Business’ network implementation services to provide comprehensive physical security solutions to its customers.
Working with Verizon Business’ enables us to offer a managed security solution that include hardware software and network services all under one umbrella the both industry leading managed security solution have been backed for years by strategic alliances with hardware providers to supply best in class equipment that help secure the assets of our customers.
Integrating Verizon Business’ network into these solutions will provide even more value.
Looking ahead we feel that enterprise security and other growth initiatives we have outside the financial state particularly in security monitoring retail and commercial market will help us build growth.
Looking at Asia-Pacific as we mentioned during our prior call we anticipate the region returning to its historic seasonality where revenue is more back and loaded to the second half of the year.
From an orders perspective we saw a significant decline against the difficult comparison to the first quarter of 2009 when orders increased in excess of 30%.
In addition orders in Asia were up more than 50% in the fourth quarter.
This lumpy quarter at entry activity is typical in this region and not an indication of any particular trend.
So the year-over-year drop in orders was inline with our expectations.
For the full year we still expect to grow in the region even compared with our very strong performance in 2009.
Our service business in Asia experienced some healthy gains during that quarter with strong contribution from our managed services business.
This contributed to the gross margin improvement during the quarter.
In India our integrated services business is having success.
As many customers in the market are beginning to see the benefits of working with us on a total outsourcing business relationship.
Our total service revenue grew more than 35% during the quarter and now represents more than half of our business in India.
We will continue to invest resources in this space throughout the region as Asia pacific remains one of our key growth markets.
In EMEA we saw an increase in revenue during the quarter as we began to work through our strong order book from the fourth quarter 2009.
We are having success in areas where we are well positioned such as France South Africa and the Middle East and plan to invest its resources to capitalize on other high potential markets within a region such as Turkey.
Yesterday we announced a multi-year ATM outsourcing and deployment agreement with ZAO Citibank one of the leading banks in Russia.
Thanks to our outsourcing service Citibank will obtain a single point of contact for the ATM related operations including both the network management efficiency and its client services.
To this bank’s decision to choose us for its integrated services agreement confirmed our commitment to continue investing and our services infrastructure in the region.
The rest of the region as a whole remains challenging as the overall economic environment is relatively weak.
As discussed over the previous call we are expecting revenue growth in EMEA for the full year and I anticipate year-over-year growth to accelerate over the next couple of quarters.
Yet much work remains in the EMEA for Diebold to be in position as strongly as we are in other regions of the world.
In Latin America business remains strong.
We completed some business sooner than expected.
This drove increased orders and revenue during the period throughout the region.
We expect the market for self-service in Latin America to remain very healthy.
In Brazil we continue to strengthen our competitive position as the clear market leader in financial health service solutions.
In fact our production facility Manaus recently shipped its 100 000 ATM unit to the Brazilian market.
We will continue working to maintain our leadership position in Brazil based on competencies we’ve built over the last two decades in design engineering software and services.
Additionally we are on schedule to begin production very soon on the Brazil election systems order and still anticipate completing this project by the end of the third quarter.
On the operational front we are on track with our smart business 200 initiative and are delivering savings to the company.
Based on the steps we’ve taken to date on the number of important operational initiatives I am confident we will continue to execute on those elements of our business that will have a significant impact on our performance moving forward.
Importantly as I stated previously we are reinvesting some of the savings we generating from our operational improvements and are putting them back into our business.
While achieving cost savings remains important to us we understand the critical nature of altering our competitive position and developing new services and solutions that generate top line growth.
That’s why we’ve increased our investment in R&amp;D for service infrastructure as well as product development.
An increased commitment to R&amp;D spend will be an ongoing focus for us as we plan for future growth.
We feel confident enough in the market and our ability to keep executing on our plans that we will continue to increase our investment in this area.
In closing I feel lots of good start in 2010 and I’m confident in our position in key markets especially in North America and Brazil.
As well as the progress we’re making to become a stronger better organization.
As a result we are reaffirming our outlook for 2010 in both revenue and earnings while I’m pleased with our performance during the quarter along with some positive indicator to the market visibility to the remainder of 2010 remain somewhat limited thus we remained conscious on our near-term outlook.
We continue to see a number of great opportunities in key areas to capitalize on our technology and services expertise.
Therefore we will continue and work to deliver our total value proposition particularly as it relates to deposit automation enterprise security and integrated services.
I am confident to the path we are traveling and tell the right strategy to deliver sustain success and shareholders value for 2010 and beyond.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Brad.
Thank you very much Tom and good morning to everyone.
I am pleased with the steady progress we’ve made on a number of fronts.
We did a good job of continuing to improve our working capital position and we also made solid progress on improving our gross margin during the quarter particularly in the service business.
You’ll also note that in today’s earnings report we’ve added more disclosure around global orders and are providing additional detail related to orders and revenue in our North American business.
We believe this will provide additional detailed behind one of the most important business segment.
We are also now providing a more detailed breakdown of other income and expense.
This is consistent with my philosophy of open disclosure and transparency.
Finally you will see that during the quarter we repurchase 337 000 of the company shares.
There are 2.6 million shares remaining on our existing board authorizations.
As I mentioned during the last call we feel our shares are in excellent value and we will continue with the measured approach to our share repurchase program.
Before we discuss our first quarter results as with past calls it’s important to note that we have restructuring charges non-routine income and expense in our financial.
We believe that excluding these items give an indication of the company’s baseline performance.
As a result many of my remarks will focus on non-GAAP financial information or a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation provided on our website.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Now let’s turn to our financial results.
First I’d like to refer to slide 12 which focuses on first quarter revenue.
Total revenue was $619 million down 6% from the first quarter of 2009 for 11% on a constant currency basis.
For the quarter product revenue dropped 14% primarily in North America for the completion of large deposit automation deployment by major national banks created a very challenging comparison.
On the other hand service revenue increased 1% with strong performance in Asia Pacific offsetting the reduction in installation revenue as a result to lower product sales in North America.
Looking at our financial self-service business on slide 13 first quarter revenue was $472 million down 5% from the first quarter 2009.
This decrease was mostly attributable to the decline in North America.
In the security business on slide 14 first quarter revenue decrease $13 million or 8% from the same period in the previous year.
This decrease was due primarily to continued weakness in the US financial market.
Especially in the segment of our business which relies heavily on new bank branch construction.
However as Tom mentioned we are encouraged by opportunities developing in the enterprise securities space.
Looking at slide 15 total gross margin for the first quarter increased 1.8 percentage points from the first quarter of 2009.
The increase was attributable to improve profitability in the company’s service operations.
Product gross margin for the quarter declined 0.1 percentage points due to a significant decrease in revenue partially offset by favorable segment mix.
In service the gross margin grew by 3.5 percentage points during the first quarter at normal cost in the prior year period created a relatively easy comparison.
In addition margins benefited from improved productivity and favorable mix.
The mix was positively impacted by higher integrated service revenues in North America and Asia Pacific.
Moving now to Non-GAAP operating expense as highlighted on slide 16 in Q1 2010 operating expense as a percent of revenue increased 2 percentage points from the comparable period of 2009.
Operating expense in the first quarter increased $5.3 million from the prior period.
However excluding the impact of currency operating expense would have declined by approximately $1 million also included in operating expense is an increase of $2.1 million currency adjusted in research and development as well as certain cost associated with the previously announced job reductions in our North America operation.
As Tom noted we’ve increased our investment in R&amp;D for services infrastructure as well as product development.
Now turning to slide 17 non-GAAP operating margin in the first quarter 2009 was flat compared to the first quarter of 2009.
While I am pleased that we are able to maintain consistent margin on significantly lower revenue a 6.1 percentage point operating margin falls well below our expectation and what I believe this company is capable of achieving.
We will continue to be aggressive in generating global growth and managing operating cost and our efforts to reach our stated operating margin goal of 10%.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on slide 18 GAAP EPS from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2010 was $0.37 per share compared with $0.13 per share in the first quarter of 2009.
Excluding restructuring charges and non-routine income and expense our first quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.34 per share compared with 46% share in the first quarter of 2009.
I would note our non-GAAP tax rate in the first quarter of 2010 was 28.6%.
In the first quarter of 2009 our non GAAP tax rate was 5.5%.
If you apply the 28.6% tax rate to the first quarter of 2009 results.
The non-GAAP EPS would be inline to what we reported this year.
For 2010 we do expect the full year tax rate to be approximately 28%.
Looking at free cash flow on slide 19 we define free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less capital expenditures.
Free cash use in the first quarter of 2010 was $66.6 million compared with free cash flow of $7 million in the first quarter of 2009.
The first quarter was adversely impacted by approximately $50 million in accounts receivables that were scheduled for the first quarter but ended up being received in December of 2009.
Excluding these early payments free cash use would be inline with prior years as noted on the slide.
Given the normal backend loading nature of our cash flow I remain confident we will generate free cash flow in excess of $100 in 2010.
Looking at slide 20 and 21 on working capital metrics our balance sheet remains strong and I am very pleased with the year-over-year working capital improvements we made during the quarter.
Days sales outstanding improved four days while inventory turns improved 0.3 turns.
We anticipate continued improvement in our working capital metrics particularly inventory turn as we complete our global plant realignment and warehouse consolidation efforts.
George Mayes and I are working closely together to drive additional improvement and sustainable improvements in inventory turns as we move forward.
Turning next to liquidity and the net debt on slide 22 net debt at March 31 2010 was a $178 million a decrease of a $108.1 million from March 31 2009.
Our net debt to capital ratio was 15% at March 31 2010 compared to 24% at March 31 2009.
Versus December 31 2009 our net debt position increased by approximately $112.7 million.
On slide 23 we have provided a net debt bridge along with a year-over-year comparison chart.
The main reasons for the net debt increase in the first quarter of 2010 relates to the early accounts receivable payments I mentioned earlier average increase and net debt seasonality increase in Brazil inventory relating to our voting machine production our share repurchase program and other items.
Turning to our full year outlook on slide 24 as Tom mentioned in his remarks we are on track and reaffirming both revenue and earnings guidance for 2010 that we established in February.
In conclusion we’ve done a good job of maintaining focus on the key initiatives and strategies that will put us in a position to deliver a 10% operating profit and 15% return on capital employed.
As shown on slide 25 we’ve provided a bridge to our operating profit goal.
The key component this bridge are top line growth additional volume against our fixed manufacturing and service cost tight control of general and administrative expenses and continued leverage of our SB 200 cost savings initiatives I’m confident that we can achieve these goals to continued investment and discipline in these areas.
In summary my priorities remain to help drive the strategic transition of the company supports the improvement of our operative shown performance and drive further improvements in our financial control processes and system.
I remain confident that the focus in ongoing initiatives for working capital improvement will continue to generate gains for the remainder of the year and increase our ability to invest in growth opportunities and return value to shareholders in the form of dividends and modest share repurchases.
Based on the results we have delivered to date I feel confident that we continue to move in the right direction on all those areas.
I’ll now turn it back to John.
Thank you Brad.
Jessica before we take our first question in order to enable everyone to get their questions in today.
I’d ask you to please limit yourself to one question and one additional follow-up and then if you have further questions please feel free to get back in queue and we’ll do our best to get through everyone this morning.
So with that Jessica let’s take our first question.
Tom just on your comments on North America.
Could you maybe just go through the year and talk about the offsets out there to the large deposit automation programs that have rolled off and I guess if you can give us some magnitude and when these kick in and I guess I’ll think about it in terms of are there other deposit automation incremental services from these large players are there some larger bank refreshes that may kick in at some point and then maybe a little bit more color when the regional started to kick in from your order commentary? Okay let me try and breakdown a few pieces Reik because you asked a quite a few things in there.
First of all is I think of it in a three large bucket that make it maybe more understandable for other one the first would be we’ve had three aggressive players in North America moving forward with deposit automation and obviously for us they give us very tough comp as several of those began to slowdown if not complete their rollout in the third quarter and little bit in the fourth quarter of last year.
If I get below that group and say the next group of the major players that are out there that would be constitute the next 20 institution so now you are talking about institutions number for through 20.
I would say that the level of activity has increased significantly and from that I mean most institutions last year regard to their rolling out deposit automation or not that this tier bank was experimenting in their labs.
So they may have had a couple of units and were testing various suppliers.
We actively engaged in several rollouts that are beginning as well as pilot that constitute in the terms of 50 to 75 units.
So that’s much more than just a couple in a lab or one or two in the cafeteria so to me that was a pretty solid movement forward.
Some of those actually want to begin rolling out several hundred in a second half of the year.
Some want to begin their pilots in the second half of the year but the fact that we have moved from what I would call the lab and prototype environment and the testing and certification of software and writing all that software into second half of the year with people beginning to rollout meaningful numbers in that tier institution I think is a positive sign.
I think that third way I would comment then it’s really the remainder of the institution which is 1000s of mid-tier community banks throughout the country.
Certainly there is still a backdrop over lot of institutions that are not yet healthy.
There are some institutions that are closing but we are seeing more activity from this group than we have had in the long time which was in my comments that are order interactivities specifically within that group was up significantly over fourth quarter and meaningfully over last year at the same time.
So for us as we tap into the size and scope of our North American operation deposited automation is an important area of focus in a important areas of decisioning and we are seeing that not just in one or two regions we are seeing that really across the United States beginning to take hold.
I think its taking a hold for a couple of reasons number one because you have the big three that has been out there another advertising on TV if you are in those markets you’ve got to be able to compete and compare yourselves.
So in some cases they are getting swept along to say well and I may not like the ROI but I got to get there and there are other things I can use.
I think the second thing that we are seeing now is with this tier of institution those that are below the top 100 you have different decision criteria.
I think it plays much more into sweet spot of Diebold.
So the decision criteria no longer is Jeez I just have to have an expensive deposit automation device that has bulk check and bulk note.
We have the capability of providing single check with bulk note.
We have a capability of providing single note with bulk check and any combination there and as you get into that we can take an institution that may not have the volume some of the bigger players into an ROI calculation that makes much more sense.
We are the only ones with all four varieties that you could mix and match with as well as build upgrade any single check to a bulk check or any single note to a bulk note and I have the capability of doing rapid processing meaning you can do both those transactions at the same time.
So not only do I believe we have the infrastructure that makes sense I think we also have as you get into this tier a technological advantage and a cost advantage that makes a whole lot more sense for us going forward.
Again we are going to be very intelligent in terms of how we continue to compete here but I think as it moves to institutions that have different cost points and different value propositions it plays much more into our capability.
And would the deposit automation with these larger players does that suggest that there is a bigger services backlog just from that alone? Yes somewhat yes it does.
It also I guess on the bigger players would mean all institutions as they move into a technology I mean we generally request their technology every say seven years with some of the biggest players I mean they begin this rollout five years ago and so as such are coming up on certain ones its not going to be the math of rollout that we just experienced but there will be some site that need to be moved some sites with new software some sites with new technology and if you recall we’ve developed new technology last year in terms of handling the notes.
That was the one area I was most uncomfortable with our capability and while in deposit automation three quarters of all the transactions are check transactions being over handled notes important.
Well that’s a Diebold developed a Diebold deliver now capability which I think puts us in much better technological stating as well as cost point in terms of being able to work with suppliers.
So as you deal with the biggest players there is just the regular routine business that they would have to do and if they will do to keep their fully trust but it certainly won’t be of those size of magnitude that we experienced over the last four to five years.
A couple of things first with regard to (inaudible) Tom you mentioned your ATM orders were down 9% and I thought that was to begin to fairly easy comparison the prior year recognizing those sequentially you had a pretty good order input quarter in Q4 can you just kind of circle back on that and kind of reconcile how that is supportive of and outlook for growth in the region this year? Sure Matt.
EMEA particularly our order growth in the fourth quarter of 2009 was significant.
So what happened as you might expect with timing issues some of the fourth quarter of 2009 was originally forecasted in 2010 like I got pulled ahead.
So from our standpoint that’s nothing but good news even though from a comparative standpoint it puts us down when you look at the two quarters combined to the two previous fourth quarter and first quarter in an aggregate level we would be up in a pretty good position.
So we feel very good about the backlog and the opportunities we’re seeing there going forward.
Having said that as I said in my comments of all regions of the world for us from a competitive standpoint that’s still the area we have to do the most work in and so while I’m confident in terms of our revenue generation for this year and it will be up over the last year from an overall standpoint we still have a lot of work to do in that region.
And so we are strong in particular areas but we can’t say that we are strong across the board in EMEA so we have got a lot work to do in various western European and Eastern European countries by the same token given where we have come we now have a better product set we now have a better organizational structure we have now better service infrastructure and much like this order with the Citibank Russia.
We are finding ourselves after table and winning some meaningful opportunity to yourself.
I feel good about the path we are on certainly nowhere near comfortable with the situation we have or how much opportunity we have to grow in that region and I think you are continuously investing heavily in EMEA.
Just one follow up question with regards to something Reik had mentioned that when you look at your answer to this question that the next two buckets beyond the big three players you kind of have as you mentioned that institutions for 220 and then literally 100s of that thousands of smaller banks where are you finding their add with regards to getting the back office technology in place to be able to effectively facilitate the sharing and clearing of the check images.
Yes okay Matt.
Let me again answer that within the two buckets because both are different.
The bucket I was the most concerned about was really the smaller players the regional players because they are so dependent upon processors and networks and then (authorizing) the software that links in and as you might recall in 2009 I’ve mentioned that repeatedly that a lot of the deposit automation even if someone was interested they didn’t have ability they could buy the technologies from us or someone else but they couldn’t actually get it to run in the fashion they wanted.
A lot of that infrastructure has been addressed throughout 2009 and will be addressed in 2010.
And we see it first in terms of the software that we were asked to write.
So for me you need to have the software written before you can you can utilize the terminal in a fashion that is advantageous.
So that’s where we are seeing activity in given me good hope that infrastructure is going to be pretty much complete with most of networks here in 2010.
Thus that supports the kind of beginning level of order entry that’s giving us some hope kind of going forward.
If I move up to tier right below that may be the top three I would say that those folks are prepared.
They’ve done a lot of work both in the lab in terms of the software of what was being done as well as the routing of and connectivity into their back office systems and I have confidence in that these.
You are moving from the lab environment as I indicated to now what they are calling pilots but when you are piloting 75 or over a 100 ATMs you are not feeling like this beginning of a rollout.
And so I feel good about that beginning here in the second half of 2010.
And I think it also speaks to really 2011 2012 with both of those buckets.
Tom in your prepared remarks you clearly found very confident about the full year guidance but as you signed off I think you said that’s little bit more cautious on the near-term outlook.
Can you clarify that statement? I might have misunderstood it.
I think that’s accurate I think for us in terms of the full year.
In terms of both guidance and revenue we are confident in terms what we can deliver.
The first quarter revenue was inline with our expectations.
So our expectations were slightly below with what was without in the market place and certainly from a revenue standpoint when you don’t have the sheer volume of some of the major players rolling with deposit automation there that means you have lots and lots of other folks that have to make up that mix to fill that bucket and the other thing I would say is certainly in the US bank market as I mentioned the bank branch construction which has a big impact on our security business is still very very weak.
So we are trying to balance those out and which gives us confidence that what we are going to do but also means that we still have a long way to go here relative to both the revenue and earnings performance as we come to the first quarter.
The other thing is we still do out forecast calls and we are trying to gain confidence again after five quarters of not having a lot of confidence in the forecast calls lets say here is what’s really going to happen and we have the kind of visibility we like into the systems so I would say we are comfortable with how we position that given the backdrop that both the United States and other regions of world there are still some financial crisis and economic crisis issues that people working through even though from a general economy standpoint it feels a whole lot better than it was certainly six and nine months ago And Brad I really welcome the disclosure on the orders which is helpful but of course it’s relative to last year how do we interpret it relative to what I believe was a pretty strong order quarter last year but also can you give us some sense of the books of bill or some kind of absolute number here? Certainly the comparison that you do see that we have provided is versus the prior year quarter and I would just reinforce the point that in the fourth quarter of last year Paul we did see very very significant order improvement again versus the previous year’s fourth quarter in excess of 40% in the financial self-services so its that combination of a strong fourth quarter a moderate performance in the first quarter that ultimately we think positions the company for a second half decent overall revenue growth performance.
Can you share book-to-bill by any chance? No I don’t think we can provide that at this point Paul.
I have a couple of questions first last week NCR your competitor reported and what they said was that the orders in Asia Pacific were approximately 25% and I think you said down 25% and they also said Europe orders were up 15% and you said down roughly 9% or 10% I am trying to see where is the disconnect do you have a feel are you possibly losing share or do you have a feel why there may be this disconnect?  Yes I think first of all you are comparing apples and oranges but these are the first and that what we are talking about really is the self-service they are talking about kiosks and entertainment and retail and a whole bunch of other things.
So I guess the real issue that we are talking about is and I can explain our issue relative to self-service but certainly can’t compare it to something that’s kind of amorphous in that regard.
From our standpoint in terms of self-service again I think the answer is more focused on the fourth quarter I mean you need to look at our fourth quarter and our first quarter kind of combined because our fourth quarter was so large I think Asia Pacific alone was up over 50% and EMEA was up 20 some or 30 some percent and the Americas regions was up in like they’re like fashion.
So when you combine that with the first quarter it gives you a little more smoother kind of alignment of comparison.
So again I think we’re comfortable with kind of where we are at given compared to fourth quarter was in how much of our fourth quarter was actually in the first quarter forecast originally and that moved on.
So again I view that as positive news even though it makes a little lumpier when you look at it.
And I think the numbers of NCR gave and the ones that I shared what’d be ATM orders but you’re saying it’s mainly timing and you’re not seeing any sort of shares last to NCR or other competition? No I think when you look at kind of our results so you look at again the fourth quarter combined with our first quarter we’re very confident in our position in all of those markets.
Okay and then my next question is on new products.
You’ve talked about deposit automation are there other products that what the nationals well that the Nationals and regionals could go to next once I guess as this thing ramps up so what’s next after deposit automation? Okay so I would say the first issue Zahid relative deposit automation is for deposit automation is probably still another four or five years from completion.
So there is a lot of work we have to do on deposit automation.
All around the world and specifically in the United States because I’ve mentioned before really have may be three institutions and may be a total of 35 000 ATMs in the Unites States that deposit automation our expectation is that somewhere between 50% to 75% of all these banks our expectation is that somewhere between 15 75% of all the bank owned ATM’s may have deposit automation over the five year period so they are still 100 000 or very large number that deposit automation is going to impact.
I said second thing would be really the movement in terms of integrated services and by that I mean not every big bank wants everything that we talk about relative to outsourcing but the ability to monitor the ability to understand remotely what’s happening those are all key issues where those are very complex software solutions that I think for well situated for as we move forward so I think those would be the areas would be kind of the immediate areas people are going to be evaluating them looking at as you rollout this sophisticated technology uptime becomes that much more important or liabilities that much more important and if you have downtime you need to have that minimize and being able to remotely diagnose it or fix it is critical.
So everything we build in kind of what I would call Brazil relative to those competencies and capabilities we are bringing to the United States in other parts of the world and think we have world class solutions.
Okay and lastly what are you seeing on pricing across your various regions? Okay for our pricing standpoint my general comment would be I think fairly stable.
I break it into two buckets you’ve got products and you’ve got your service and services.
The product bucket is more sensitive to price invent service and services on a grand scale standpoint in that a lot of times you have a major bank or a significant player in any region of the world will make a lots of order two three 400 000 ATM’s it is a price competitive situation and I think we all face that in most regions of the world probably the region that always has been the most price sensitive is the Asia region as we got the India and Indonesia and other regions there but I understand any shift or change in that make up here and I think the good news is with our strategy relative to outsourcing and integrated services as you add and fumble services together there is less focus on the hardware price and more focus on a total value proposition which really again place to our capability and our competency.
So that’s where we would want to continue to move the market to and that said certain institutions and we feel good about that.
We go next to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Could you give us a little bit of more a detailed update on the cost cutting on the $200 million program where we are today how much do we still have left in 2010 2011? And you are talking more about reinvesting it what percentage of the gains that we still have will be reinvested versus flow to the bottom line.
Okay I will start and then Brad can fill in if I miss certain pieces.
In essence Gil to the year we had I think about $35 million in our sites relative to smart business 200.
It has been kind of our perspective all along it’s probably about 50% give or take a percent or two in terms of reinvesting versus dropping the savings.
And I think we are on track for that this year.
We feel good about the pipeline of project we have in place.
And we are working both spaces in terms of direct and indirect spent in terms of what we are focused on taking cost out.
When you talk in terms of R&amp;D the two areas I would say the two primary areas we have got focus on has to do with continued development with the deposit automation technology and services infrastructure and software and they kind of go hand-in-hand and you may see Gil I guess the number would probably in neighborhood of $5 million to $7 million through the course of the year in terms of R&amp;D is that right? $2 million in the first quarter.
About $5 million to $7 million somewhat in that range $7.5 million in terms of probably increased focus on R&amp;D and those of these are kind of the primary or it will be software specifically on power software the second would be the services infrastructure of which the software helps facilitate and also monitoring kind of software that goes within the services infrastructure and then really deposit automation to continue the development of those solutions and build out of improvement in terms of quality and taking cost out of that.
And then for 2011 how much do you have left? I think its $30 million Gil.
And that will get you to the 200 overall? Yes that gets us to 200 that’s correct.
The growth you are seeing in integrated services sounds encouraging especially internationally you said you had a $100 million base you had a $20 million in this quarter.
Could you just give us a little more detail about may be which one of these contracts is worse like the one you announced in Russia as far as revenue contribution in margins and how much of the growth in that business is coming from North America versus international? Yes I will try to answer that in some pieces because I think we give you some dimension to it.
The size of these contracts varies dramatically and it varies by how big the network is how many units you are talking about and the other thing that here is when we talk about this contracts that we call them total contract value because generally speaking these are three to five year contracts most are tending to be towards the five year level.
So even though you may have a contract value picking numbers that $20 million or $10 million that’s spread out over five years.
So because the services that we are rendering we are going to render those for five years thus we recognize the revenue over that period of time depending on if they refresh their hardware piece more of that may come in year one but we think about it in terms of a five year bucket thus you end up with some of that from every quarter being a backlog in the future quarters and the future years.
So that’s why we like the business its very recurrent its sticky and it allows us to really help the bank focus on really improving their overall operation and how they run that and solve bigger problems rather than getting into a price discussion on the price of two ATMs.
So most of the business today in the United States let me start there is with smaller institutions.
So these are institutions may be with anywhere from three or five ATMs up to 50 or 100 that’s kind of the sweet spot that we are after relative to this.
Outside the United States they tend to be larger.
So the institutions of Brazil were very large and some of the ones in India are very large and probably the split between that is that we were probably begin that’s larger outside the United States clearly than we were inside the United States because this really began to take hold inside United States over the last two years and almost coincided with some of the issues that the institute that the industry has faced.
So I would say right now that’s getting closer to 50-50 but it’s still weighted greater outside the US.
In terms of margins we report this within the service category this will help our service margins long-term again at the small piece that we have got a $1.5 billion in service and services so it’s going to take a while to have the kind of impact we want but again we think goes well for 2011 2012 2013 as this start to build into some serious venue which is why in the past where I had commented on the service margin improvement.
Some of its productivity on traditional service some of it is adding services with a little bit of higher margin mix into it.
And second question could you just go into a little bit more detail about uses of cash with over $450 million right now do you have any plans for debt reduction and just a little bit more detail on what you mean by modest share repurchases over the next two years? Yeah Michael.
I just point out again go back to our priority uses for cash and for our free cash flow which again we think this year will exceed $100 million and certainly our priority for that cash is to reinvest back into the business in terms of our capital investment which is somewhere in the neighborhood of $50 million to $60 million.
We certainly are looking at modest if you will Bolton type and synergistic acquisition that can help us grow.
We’re very very focused on then returning moneys to shareholders in the form of our dividend which is over $70 million a year and then modest share buyback.
So as we look at the environment today again we feel confident about the guidance that we have provided but yet there are still uncertainties out there and therefore we are going to continue with the share buyback program but at a modest rate I can’t project what that is but you can see in the first quarter we purchased about 337 000 shares.
So again that’s the priorities and the reason that we are being modest here is because again we want to preserve our powder if you will toward for reinvestment back into business as well as maintaining a high level liquidity given the uncertainties that we have in the marketplace.
I want to ask you little bit about your service margins and your thoughts on how sustainable they are for the rest of the year.
Obviously you had a really good quarter and I’m wondering if that particular percentage is sustainable throughout 2010? Yes Kartik I would say that it is sustainable.
First of all the increase over last year is not sustainable with that level but the absolute number is sustainable.
We had some easy comps last year and we had some one time frames that hit so it made the gross margin improvement significant but I think when you go back and look at the last 16 quarters of service gross margin you’ll see a steady climb in the right direction here lot of that has to do with productivity training and kind of the investment we continue to make in that which we are doing.
Some of that has to do with a little bit of influence now in terms of services starting to play a little bit of a roll in terms of that mix.
But overall I feel pretty good about our ability to increase for the third consecutive year somewhere in the neighborhood of percentage point increase.
So we are confident that while you won’t see a 3% variation compared to quarter-over-quarter.
We think mid-25 is achievable and doable as we move forward in the space.
And then Tom I think you said that some business of course sooner than you expected but then I think you also said revenue was kind inline with expectations.
I am wondering how are you referring to that or what was your different type of business you expected closer than you thought? Yes I think in a couple issues in that regard.
I mean first of all when we try to look at the size of that comes earlier.
It was probably a neighborhood of we probably had $0.04 to $0.05 improvement relative to orders coming in a little bit sooner.
When you compare that then with what happened to us in what the devaluation of the currency.
I think that number --- it was about $0.04 so it kind of impacted or kind of upset one another there.
But again from an overall standpoint feel good about what that meant to first quarter still think we end up with very strong kind of underline performance.
And stronger activity levels which we set for couple of quarters now.
Then activity doesn’t automatically turn into orders.
But the comfort level of that activity now in somebody’s long lead time discussions leading into something meaningful.
We are gaining some strength there specifically kind of in the US gives us good confidence relative to the outcome from the revenue and the earnings standpoint this year.
(Operator Instructions).
This thus concludes the question and answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the call to Mr.
John Kristoff for any additional or closing remarks.
if you have any follow-up questions please feel free to reach out to me.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone.
Welcome to Diebold Incorporated Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Danna.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold’s third quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Tom Swidarski President and CEO and Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the investor page of our website.
Tom and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as with past calls it's important to note that we are restructuring non-routine expenses in our financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will be focused on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operation.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I will turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
While our business in the third quarter was sound from a topline perspective we experienced a number of unique challenges relative to profitability.
First we had a forecasting issue in our North American operation that caused us to overestimate our profitability going into the quarter.
Our business in North America remains robust as we turned in 9% revenue growth during the quarter; however a shift in mix significantly impacted profit margin on several sub-segments of the business.
Second North American service margins were adversely affected by lower than expected build work and continued investments in our integrated services platform software and productivity tools.
Finally a couple of very large financial self service projects with government banks in Brazil have been pushed out in 2013.
Brad and I will address each of these factors in more detail in our comments this morning.
As a result of the revenue mix shift in North America and project delays in Brazil as previously announced we have reduced our earnings expectations for the full year.
Despite these mixed shift and timing issues we remain confident in the fundamentals of our global financial self service business which we anticipate to grow at 8% to 9% this year or 12% to 13% on a constant currency basis.
While product margins are under continued pressure we expect our service margins to return to the positive sequential trajectory in the fourth quarter.
Also I am encouraged by our security business performance during the quarter which grew nearly 8%.
Security is the key strategic growth initiative for our company and we are beginning to gain increased traction in this space.
As a result we've tightened our full-year security revenue guidance within a higher end of our prior outlook and remain confident in our ability to execute on the many opportunities on our horizon for Diebold and deliver profitable growth led by our services capabilities both in the near-term and beyond.
Now lets look at our regional performance.
In North America revenue grew approximately 9% with growth across the financial self service and security businesses.
Though orders for products and service decreased slightly up a strong comparable to the prior year when we experienced a double-digit increase in orders.
However order entry was in line sequentially with the first and second quarters on a dollar basis.
As I mentioned earlier we had a greater than expected drop in profitability based on customer mix shift taking place on the heels of the upgrade cycle and the regional bank space related to ADA and PCI compliant.
To put this impact in perspective in a given year a 10 percentage point mix shift from regionals to nationals translates to about a $10 million drop in operating profit and an impact of approximately $0.10 in earnings per share.
Likewise when we saw a shift in the opposite direction in the first quarter it resulted in dramatically higher profitability for the company.
However this shift towards the national account segment should not be interpreted as the weakness in the market.
Demand remained strong for deposit automation where at this stage by the national account segment which carries lower margin.
Yet it's important to note that regional bank self service revenue has grown 94% on a year-to-date basis and grew again during the third quarter but at a significantly lower rate than the growth we experienced at the national account level.
Our integrated services front; we continue focus on building our infrastructure and extending our competitive advantage in the market.
The integration of the Toronto-Dominion business the largest such outsourcing deal in the industry continues to progress.
We're on schedule to begin transitioning their machine and we’ll have more than 500 ATMs or about 10% of their total base on our systems in the fourth quarter.
In addition TD has decided to replace all its competitive terminals with [0.5 GB] units.
Also during the quarter our integrated services competencies enabled us to replace the ATM hardware of our primary in a number of regional account Prudent Capital Bank and Midland State Bank.
This exemplifies the added value we bring to our customers and helping them manage their retail delivery aspects of their operations.
To support this transition and further develop our IT capabilities in the services space during the quarter we teams up with Verizon to open state-of-the-art datacenters located in their Terremark Centers in Texas and Virginia.
This integrated advanced datacenter capability which leverages Verizon’s reach reliability and global scope will increase our performance.
This is one of the key investments we have made in our integrated services operation.
Reflective of the recent trends we are seeing in the regional bank space the total value of contracts we signed for IS in North America during the quarter was below the prior year period.
However we still expect to reach $300 million in total contract value this year.
I am also encouraged by the growing services portion of our IS contract which now stands at approximately 70% of total contract value.
This is important given the recurring nature of these services as well as the fact that many of these services are incremental for our traditional offerings.
We will continue to focus intently on drawing this segment of our business.
Looking to 2013 and beyond we are focused on bringing new solutions and innovations to the market.
We recently introduced several such innovations at this year’s BAI Retail Delivery Conference.
In the mobile innovation space we displayed various transactional and authentication technologies.
We also showcased our remote deposit capture application which delivers efficiency to check processing and improve customer service by allowing consumers to transform photos of check into digital deposit.
In addition we exhibited our cashless person-to-person payment capability which enables consumers to make electronic payments to other consumers for businesses via mobile devices.
These software-led services are clinical component of our future growth in IS.
From a branch automation perspective our Concierge Video Services technology was very popular with customers at this show.
This brings video technology to the ATM to visually connect bank personnel with the consumer to resolve problems answers questions or fulfill marketing opportunities.
Unlike competitive offerings our Concierge Video Service can be added to existing ATMs eliminating the need to invest any dedicated terminal.
This solution was developed in partnership with CO-OP Financial Services which had more than 3500 credit union members 30 million card holders and 4 700 shared branch and locations.
We have planned several private installations for this technology in the fourth quarter and are very excited about its potential moving forward.
These sorts of innovations combined with advances in cloud based services 4G network capable ATM and our Opteva and Flex series all introduced during the past year places us at the leading edge of technology in our industry.
Looking at the security business revenue grew at 8% during the quarter; while our total orders grew at a similar rate.
As soon as (inaudible) joined the company he has been working to realign the organization build the sales team invest in software and services platform and grow the pipeline of opportunities.
I am encouraged that these efforts are beginning to have an impact as we generated double digit gains in both revenue and orders in electronic securities during quarter.
We are also shifting our strategy in terms of where we are focusing our efforts within electronic security with greater emphasis on growing recurring services within the financial space and less emphasis on one-off enterprise implementation projects.
These recurring services will provide us with a more stable stream of revenue moving forward.
Though we are comfortable with where we are regarding our strategy and improves execution and security and renewed confidence in our ability to deliver growth in 2012.
Therefore we have tightened our revenue growth projection within the high end of the prior range and expect to deliver 3% to 4% revenue growth for the full year.
Now looking at Asia Pacific; revenue was 2% lower in the period but up 4% on a constant currency basis.
As service growth was offset by lower product volume.
Service growth in the region was primarily driven by China where we saw solid growth in maintenance contract managed services and sales of consumables.
The decrease in product volume was mainly attributable to timing of business in India and Southeast Asia partially offset by the growth in China.
Total product and service orders increased well into the double-digit range driven primarily by growth in China and India.
In China we are seeing consistent demand in tier one banks and we are making notable inroads with the tier 2 and 3 regional banks.
The demand we are seeing is not only for our traditional ATM but for our high end cash recycling solutions.
In India the government began initiative for the state run banks to nearly double the number of ATMs over the next few years by outsourcing to private company.
We opted not to bid on any of the deals as a primary deployer given the risk in significant upfront capital required with unknown returns.
However we are currently pursuing opportunities to provide hardware and maintenance services to the various companies acting as primary deployers.
We've already won a number of such contracts and we are well positioned to capture as much as 30% of the installed base of the total project.
We anticipate the business resulting from the splurge of activity in India will be diluted from a product margin perspective.
However the services aspect of the business is appealing given the good service margins and recurring revenue inherent in these agreements we are making.
This strongly supports the managed services strategy in India without taking on the risk and capital investment required as a primary deployer.
So I feel good about what we are doing in Asia not only from the level of activity we are seeing but in the type of business we are doing and how it fits within our strategy of growing services globally.
In Brazil in Latin America revenue decreased 15% or 2% on a constant currency basis due to the decline in year-over-year elections revenue in Brazil.
The decrease in elections revenue also resulted in substantially lower product gross margin.
Double digit revenue growth in Latin America was more than offset by the decline in Brazil due to the timing of projects and the impact of the Real.
Orders in Latin America and Brazil grew in the low single digit range.
In Brazil several factors led to the delays in a couple of very large government bank bids for ATM replacements.
These include the government bank worker strike shifting priorities of internal projects in the bank and finally a general slowdown in government activity leading up to the elections which took place earlier this month.
While these delays were a primary contributor to our reduced outlook for the year we expect a strong year in our Brazilian operations in 2013.
We are confident in our market position technology and services capabilities in Brazil which positions us well for 2013 and beyond.
In Latin America outside of Brazil we continue to experience double digit growth in revenue and orders throughout the region.
I am encouraged that a portion of that growth is being driven by new integrated services contract.
During the quarter we signed several significant contracts including the one with a multi national Spanish bank in Peru several others in Columbia and elsewhere within the region.
As we look to the fourth quarter and beyond we expect to continue to deliver strong growth from these emerging markets.
Looking at EMEA revenue declined approximately 4% but was up 6% on constant currency basis.
Orders experience strong double-digit growth as we continue as we saw continuing momentum in the [product] automation and recycling driven by our Opteva Flex series of ATM.
Business was especially strong in South Africa and Saudi Arabia.
Also one of our recent wins in Europe was the direct results of our growing software and service competences in EMEA.
We delivered XFS base customized software solution with nearly 100 advance Opteva units with cash recycling and coin deposit capability.
All these significant orders are positioning EMEA well for the fourth quarter and provide a solid backlog for 2013.
And we're still on track to achieve modest profit for the full-year in the region.
Brad is going to provide more specifics on the balance sheet but I want to take a few moments to discuss our strategy in terms of cash used.
You are aware of our increased investments in IT and services infrastructure shared services and new product and application development to reduce cost increase our competitiveness and help generate organic growth.
In addition to these ongoing investments we're placing greater focus around developing a more robust M&amp;A pipeline.
To that end we recently announced strategic acquisitions in two key growth areas logical security and services.
In September we expanded our security expertise with the acquisition of GAS Technology.
GAS is the leading Brazilian internet banking online payment and mobile banking security company that services most of the country’s leading financial institution and protects nearly 70% of the internet banking transaction in Brazil.
We are confident that GAS will be a meaningful addition to Diebold as we expand our logical security expertise.
Earlier this year we announced the acquisition of Altus an industry leading multi-vendor service provider in Turkey.
Altus provide IT services to the financial sector through 32 service centers doubling approximately 80 cities in Turkey with a team of more than 150 professionals.
Turkey is one of the largest ATM markets in the world growing at more than [15%].
Altus provided us with the service infrastructure necessary to capture on the opportunities in this market.
As I think about our acquisition strategy we intend to step up on our activity in the coming quarters and focus on security and services opportunities in our existing markets.
We have a very strong financial and strategic criteria for acquisitions and a rigorous process from opportunity to integration.
As we put a high focus on growing our business both organically and acquisitively we had to reprioritize where we invest our capital resources.
After analyze our near and long term growth priorities it’s become clear that investing more than $100 million in a new headquarters facility is not the right priority for the business at this time.
Therefore as we announced earlier this morning we are indefinitely suspending our plans in that regard and do not plan to pursue new construction options for the global headquarter facility even in Ohio or elsewhere.
To address the competitive pressures in our global markets and allow the kind of continued investments necessary to grow business we have a number of initiatives underway to address our long-term cost position.
Brad will get into these efforts in more detail during his comments but we are sharply focused on keeping our cost under control and taking the right steps to gain more efficiencies throughout our operations.
So to wrap up my comments this morning while we are frustrated by the various challenges we encountered during the quarter we are confident in our long term strategy and continue to execute against that strategy.
Investments we are making today to enhance the solutions we deliver to the market reduce our long-term cost structure and expand our services infrastructure will bring value for years to come.
The global financial self service market is growing in key geographies and we are encouraged by what we are seeing given the growth of our international order book and in security business it’s beginning to show extremely encouraging signs of progress.
We also continue generate very strong cash flow and are confident in our ability to continue that trend moving forward.
With the investments we are making in the business and the acquisition strategy we are following I am certain that we’ll successfully execute on our growth plan and deliver superior returns to our shareholders.
With that I will turn the call over to Brad.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Before I get into our quarterly financial results and outlook for the remainder of the year.
I would like to provide some insight into the preliminary third quarter results we have reported last week which were well below our expectation.
As Tom mentioned we missed our internal projections for the quarter largely due to customer’s mix issues within our highly profitable North American regional business.
In addition we experienced an adverse impact due to lower billed work service volume and additional cost associated with the investment in our integrated services platform.
And we have good visibility into our backlog and the related scheduling we were not to as sharp around accurately projecting the timing and margin associated with specific installations during the quarter which is turn adversely impacted margin.
We realized there will always be timing issues in terms of what period revenue is recognized but we need to do a much better job forecasting our service cost and the margins associated with our scheduled backlog.
We are addressing our processes to improve our forecasting efforts and execution moving forward.
Looking at our third quarter results we reported non-GAAP EPS of $0.39 per share compared to $0.69 in the prior year.
There were a number of factors which lead to deteriorating growth margins and higher operating expense during the quarter.
As a result we have lowered our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance to $2.25 to $2.30 from the prior range of $2.50 to $2.60.
I will walk you through these factors in greater detail in a few moments.
Our revenue outlook however remains largely intact as our core markets which while cyclical remains sound.
We did experience two large bank customer delays in Brazil which impacted our top line assumptions for the full year.
Thus we tightened our full year revenue outlook to growth of approximately 6% at the low end of our prior range.
Despite these delays in Brazil we still intend to grow our financial self-service revenue 8% to 9% or on a constant currency basis 12% to 13%.
This is notable considering the current global economic environment and competitive pressures in our industry.
Our strong balance sheet anticipated free cash flow supports our continued growth in key areas such as software services and electronic security.
For example as Tom mentioned we recently made two strategic acquisitions GAS in Brazil and Altus in Turkey both of which are highly synergistic and accretive to the growth of the company.
Acquisitions such as these enable us to build upon the organic growth we are generating.
As we think about our capital allocation strategy we are focused on driving the long-term growth of the business and return on capital employed at 15%.
Investments that support these strategies take precedence.
To this end we recently made a necessary decision to end the pursuit of our new world headquarters facility.
Now to review our financial results turning to slide 16 total revenue was $710 million flat from the third quarter of 2011 including a negative currency impact of approximately 6%.
The third quarter revenue was driven by strong performance in both our financial self-service and security businesses in North America offset by the $21 million decline in election revenues in Brazil.
For the quarter service revenue increased more than 3% while product revenue declined 4%.
Looking at our financial sell service business on slide 17 third quarter revenue was $531 million an increase of 1% due to national account activity in North America as well as continued strength in Latin America excluding Brazil where we enjoy a strong leadership position.
Service revenue grew approximately 2%.
The security business on slide 18 took a positive turn this quarter with revenue of $154 million an increase of approximately 8%.
And our electronic security business grew 14% in the quarter.
This gives further credence to our execution of the software led services strategy in our electronic security business.
This is the third consecutive quarter of sequential order growth which builds our confidence in the long-term growth prospects for our electronic security business.
As a result of our increased confidence we tightened our full year security revenue guidance at the top end of our previous range to grow 3% to 4%.
Turning to slide 19 total gross margin for the quarter decreased 3.1 percentage points from 2011 with an equal decline in both product and service.
We experienced pressure on product gross margin during the quarter due primarily to the tough comparison we had within the high margin Brazil election business.
Product gross margins were also impacted by an unfavorable customer mix in North America and EMEA.
Turning to service gross margin as Tom noted there was lower volume of [break] six service revenue in the quarter within our North American business.
We also continue to invest in our integrated services platform software and productivity tools.
Finally we experienced the mix issue in relationship to more low margin installation revenue versus higher margin build work in contract maintenance revenue.
The higher installation revenue was the result of the increased product revenue in the quarter.
Moving on to non-GAAP operating expense it’s highlighted on slide 20.
In the third quarter operating expense as a percent of revenue was up 40 basis points.
This was primarily due to our increased investments in R&amp;D to support future offering in the financial self-service and security segments.
For the full year we still expect our operating expense to be around 18.5% of revenue as we leverage operating expense structure over greater volume in 2012 versus 2011.
Let me provide more detail on what we are doing from a cost structure perspective.
On slide 21 we are taking a broad long-term view of our efforts.
In order to offset ongoing competitive pressures in our global markets we have a number of initiatives underway to address our cost position.
As part of these efforts we are realigning hardware and software development resources in global centers of excellence geographically situated to best meet our R&amp;D needs in key international regions.
Building out our global IT and business service center in Hyderabad India and aggressively implementing advanced service technologies and productivity improvement tools primarily in our large service organizations in North America and Brazil.
As a result of these and other strategic cost reduction initiatives we are making a contentious decision to reduce our headcount by approximately 500 full time contract and open job position primarily in Brazil and North America.
Many have already taken place and the majority are expected to be complete in the next 30 days.
While these are very difficult decisions they are necessary to align our overall cost structure within the needs of the business.
We are also continuing to execute on our smart business 300 cost savings initiative which is currently focused on areas of indirect end.
In doing so we are freeing up more resources that will allow us to make investments in growing the business.
We continue to be diligent in these cost control efforts in order to incrementally improve the long-term profitability of the company and we will expand and accelerate these initiatives as appropriate.
Now to slide 22 non-GAAP operating margin in the second quarter decreased to 4.7% from 8.2% in 2011.
We now expect to have full year operating margin will be in the high 6% range.
This is a setback to reaching our margin improvement target.
While we have driven marked improvements in EMEA North America and the Latin America division Brazil has been highly dilutive to our margin this year due to the cyclical nature of the FSS and voting businesses there.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on slide 23 non-GAAP EPS moved from $0.69 per share in the third quarter 2011 to $0.39 per share in the current quarter which I will elaborate more on in a moment.
Our non-GAAP tax rate moved up considerably from 21.2% in 2011 to 30.6% in 2012.
The 9.4 percentage point increase is attributable to non-recurring discrete items reducing the rates for the third quarter of 2011.
Greater income from regions with higher tax jurisdictions increased the effective rate for the current quarter.
Our full year EPS guidance assumes a non-GAAP tax rate of around 27%.
Slide 24 provides some additional insights on the year-over-year decline in non-GAAP EPS.
As shown EPS declined by $0.30 in the third quarter 2012 versus the prior year.
A large portion of the decline came from North America as a result of the stronger mix in national account revenue as well as the increased service investments we covered earlier.
Another significant impact came from the year-over-year decline in the Brazil voting and lottery businesses.
Finally the higher tax rate also contributed to lower EPS in the quarter.
Turning to slide 25 free cash flow decreased $41 million in the third quarter while year-to-date free cash use improved $29 million.
As such our free cash flow is more balanced this year though we still anticipate a strong fourth quarter.
Our improvement in free cash use year-to-date coupled with continued enterprise initiatives continues to put us in a position to generate approximately a $170 million in free cash flow for the year.
Looking at slides 26 and 27 day sales outstanding increased by six days from the prior year to 54 due to geographic composition in receivables and timing of payments.
For the full year however we expect DSO to be in line with the prior year.
Inventory turns improved during the quarter versus the prior year and while we are at the highest third quarter turn levels in several levels we have room to continue to improve inventory turns as we move forward.
Moving next to liquidity and net debt on slide 28 we finished the quarter in a net debt position of $151 million a reduction of $81 million from the net debt position at September 30 2011.
Our strong balance sheet also puts us in a position to continue reserving the record for the light standing consecutive dividend increases in North America.
In addition during the past several years we have returned a solid 3% to 4% dividend yield reflecting the financial strength of our company and our steadfast commitment to our shareholders.
During the quarter we did not repurchased any shares while we have roughly 2.4 million shares remaining on our repurchase authorization our investment priorities at this point are our dividend acquisition activity and reinvestment in the business.
In our full year outlook for 2012 as shown on slide 29 we expect revenue to increase approximately 6% in line with the lower end of our previous guidance range of 6% to 8% due to customer delays in Brazil.
We are also lowering our full year guidance for financial self service revenue to grow 8% to 9% including the currency again due to customer delays in Brazil.
Security revenue on the other hand has been tightened at the top end of the range to grow 3% to 4%.
We are lowering our full year 2012 non-GAAP EPS guidance to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.30 from the prior guidance of $2.50 to $2.60.
Again our earnings guidance assumes a full year tax rate of around 27%.
Slide 30 gives further insight into the reasons behind our lower guidance for the year.
The change in customer mix in North America service investments and other items that I mentioned earlier represent a reduction of $0.17 to $0.20 per share in our outlook.
The remainder of our reduced outlook is attributable to government bank delays in Brazil for financial self service deployment.
Turning to slide 31 I would like to outline some key considerations regarding our 2013 outlook.
First a macroeconomic environment of slowing growth.
Second we anticipate modest topline growth with difficult comparisons in North America and revenue growth in Latin America and Brazil and the security business.
Next we expect continued downward pressure on product margins especially considering the year-over-year mix shift in North America.
However we also expect improvements in service margins compared to 2012 as our investments in that space continue to take hold.
Finally we expect higher healthcare and pension expense however we also expect benefit from the cost containment actions we are now taking.
Net-net we are positioning the company to drive operational improvement and grow earnings per share in 2013.
Moving to slide 32 I would like to provide a brief update on our compliant initiatives.
More than two years ago we made a voluntary disclosure related to certain potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
This prompted an extensive internal investigation that has caused the company more than $20 million.
The process has also been disruptive to our business causing significant setbacks in certain markets such as Russia Eastern Europe and China.
This journey has been arduous but today we have a much more robust compliance program which gives us confidence that we're conducting our global business in a compliant manner.
Currently we are in very active negotiations with the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission working towards a resolution.
While we cannot predict the timing or nature of any potential settlement at this point we will continue to provide updates on key developments moving forward.
In continuing our commitment to transparency during the quarter one of our Brazilian subsidiaries was notified of attack assessment of approximately $130 million.
This assessment primarily relates to allegation of prohibited importation of certain ATM component.
We certainly take all matters related to this issue seriously.
However we disagree with the assessment and are vigorously defending our position.
These type of tax audits in Brazil are not uncommon as many companies have experienced similar assessments.
We're currently assessing the impact of this tax uncertainty.
Due to the lengthy administrative and judicial processes this issue will likely not be resolved for many years.
We will continue to provide updates on this matter as necessary.
In closing we are disappointed in the results we delivered during the quarter.
We are addressing our internal processes to improvement our forecasting efforts and gaining more accurate view of the business moving forward.
The fundamentals of our business remains sound.
As I mentioned earlier we expect our financial self service business to grow 12% to 13% on a constant currency basis.
In addition I am encouraged by the high single-digit growth we saw on our security business during the quarter and we remain on-track to deliver on our guidance that we set at the beginning of the year within this segment.
Moving forward while we continue to encounter pressure from the product margin perspective the investments we are making in service and IT infrastructure will enable us to continue to improve margins on the service side.
The cost improvement steps we are taking are strategic and measured and are reflective of the investments we have been making to address our cost position.
We are continuing working to align our operations with the strategies and long-term target set within our financial framework.
Our revised revenue guidance for 2012 still puts us above our long-term goal of 4% to 6% and we are making strong progress towards achieving our target of 15% sustained return on capital employed.
Lastly our solid balance sheet puts us in a position to capitalize on growth opportunity and deliver sustained shareholder value.
With that I will turn the call back to John.
Thank you Brad.
Danna we’ll take our first question now please.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will go first to Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
I wanted to ask you Brad and Tom I think you both mentioned that the opportunity to do some acquisitions and I wanted to get to your thoughts and may be what areas you’re going to focus on and if you believe based on evaluations you are seeing out there if these will be accretive to earnings or that would take a little bit longer to achieve?  So Kartik I will start may be and frame up the areas that we are looking at.
I would say there is probably four areas of focus; one what would be called traditional break fix maintenance type of services and certainly those types of acquisitions are easy to fold into any existing operation and we think those can be accretive very quickly.
The second type of acquisition will be in the security space that may include an acquisition on the technology side it may include an acquisition relative to the services our capabilities but security certainly is a top of mind issue for us and as we’ve generated and the momentum here we think there is some opportunities we’re going to be evaluating in that space.
The third I would point to have to do with the what I would called gases into the services space.
So technologies that we fold into the integrated services offering would be very appealing to us and sometimes these are smaller technology companies with a capability and this one happen to be around security on the internet banking space but there is other one in that type of (inaudible) we would be looking and generally those would be smaller.
And then I would say the fourth would be in key geographies and we have identified six to 10 key geographies which really drive the businesses that were in a long-term and anything in those areas much like we did with Altus to give up the strength and capability to compete more effectively and the market we think is critical will be the fourth area that we focus on.
Thanks Tom.
And then the question on Brazil.
I think Brad in our prepared remarks you talked about Brazil and obviously that’s having a year-over-year tough comparison from a margin standpoint and I am wondering from the orders you have seen and maybe just having a perspective of that geography what percentage of the EBIT do you think you could get back in 2013 that you lost in 2012? Certainly as we showed on slide 30 I mean we estimated the impact of the government bank delays somewhere in the neighborhood of $0.08 to $0.10 per share and we are watching the order activity very closely on the bank delays but our assumption is that we would get that back in 2013.
That was part of the 2013 consideration slide that we showed and again there's lots of puts and takes for 2013 but certainly we would expect that to come back in 2013.
And then just a final question Brad you maintained your cash flow guidance even though you took down EPS guidance can you just talk about maybe what areas are helping you so you are able to maintain your cash flow guidance that you have confidence you can get to 170 in 2012.
Certainly when we started the year we signaled about $150 million of free cash flow and as we've seen our performance this year continue to improve we took it up to the 170.
We probably have cut back a little bit on the capital investment side which will certainly help us achieve the 170.
But if you look at the slides again I mean there's quite a bit of momentum on the receivables here in the fourth quarter like we normally have but also the inventory performance albeit it’s not where we wanted to be its been performing better than where we were a year ago this time and so its those factors that give us confidence on the $170 million of free cash.
And we will go next to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
I wanted to ask a couple of questions on the state of regional bank market and your business there do you expect to be as we are now after we had the ADA spike earlier in the year are we still up year-over-year in regional banks so third quarter over third quarter of last year so is that deposit automation upgrade cycle still happening for regional bank.
Yeah Gil if you would look at year-over-year just regional banks space and just self service we are up year-over-year.
I think what we are seeing is the rates that were up is decelerating.
And then in terms of competitive wins and losses can you help us with a comparable metric to the one that was mentioned by NCR a couple of weeks ago.
In terms of banks that you haven't done business with over the last three years and you did business with this year so how many banks have you added this year that you haven't done business with over the last three years.
Yeah Gil I think that number is about 700 this year I think it’s a little north of 700 and as you might expect a lot of those would be institutions that are small and as a result of ADA and PCI you know have to make an investment and those would be in that very smallest category in terms of the regional bank space.
We have sub segments there but overall I would say maybe even a more important indicator would be revenue growth year-over-year were up 94% there which to me looks at the broader breadth of kind of the capability of a lot of the regional that are a little bit bigger than a one or two kind of a ATM acquisitions.
So we look at a number of those type of factors and kind of give us a sense of how we are turned in.
And then on the managed services business you are ramping up TB which is by far the biggest customer you had today and you seem to be some incremental cost that your taking on.
First question is how long is it going to take for you to add the required infrastructure and then the second part of that question is once you ramp up to take on TB with their full phase of ATMs.
Are you going to have to make that kind of investment every year to take on more customers or the investment you're making this year scalable for you to bring in other customer? So I'll answer those pieces and then Brad you can chime in if need be.
So first of all one of the comments I think Brad and I both made was our service margin in the fourth quarter are going to return back to what we consider normal levels for us.
As you saw the second and third were down.
Part of that had to do with investments that we're making here relative to the TB.
So in essence we have completed the vast majority of investments we're making here.
So I don’t expect to have any impacts its had.
The second piece of that is because of the way we made those investments there are truly scalable.
So we're leveraging you know as I mentioned Terremark with Verizon in their partnership.
We have our space within their facilities and can leverage their capabilities.
So while it took us a while from an investment standpoint to get up to speeds for someone that size and scope and technical capabilities that TB needed.
We're now at that level and we would not expect to have to make an incremental investment like we have as we put on any size accounts going forward.
The other piece of that is it will help us because we will begin move in once we have thrown a dominion up and running.
We will begin moving all of the [IS] businesses that we're currently running on our system over there which would really allow us to again focus on cost and take some of that out and allow us to be much more efficient going forward.
And we will take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Couple of questions Tom first one of your initial remarks was to get a forecasting issue in North America you overestimated profitability.
I am a little lost just to actually how that happens in this (inaudible) age with the IT systems we have so is that a human issue an IT issue is this lingering ERP stuff I mean really dig into how this happened.
Bard you want to.
Yeah Matt good morning and certainly with our IT systems we have very very good visibility to the backlog and we have got good visibility to backlog split between national and regional and we have decent visibility as to when that backlog is actually going to be scheduled and installed.
What we found this quarter though is our visibility to the margins within that backlog.
We typically had been using more of kind of an average for the regional phase average for the national space and that typically has worked well for us and that the North American business has been very predictable it didn’t work in this quarter and so we have taken additional steps in our forecasting process to really show the backlog show it scheduled but then show the margins the actual specific installation margins on that backlog that’s the fix that we have made.
Okay.
And is that just a bigger picture about (inaudible) we are looking at kind of three years of flat EPS if we go back even six years or so ago revenues about where it is operating profit non-GAAP is about where it is I mean what do you guys do from here you have gone through actually 200 and you have taken a lot of cost out.
The margins just aren’t improving what should give us confidence that the lights sort of get switched on and margins around that sustainable track to 10%? Okay matt.
That's question that we have very focused on from our long term standpoint.
Certainly when you go back that period of time you look at what happened during the financial crisis you look at how you come out on the other end.
So the world is very different today then it was five or six years ago and we recognize that.
The cost side equation is certainly one piece of that and as we’ve outlined today there are number of actions were taking there there is a number of productivity tools like (inaudible) resolve which helped on the service.
So while you think of smart business 100 you think of maybe infrastructure pieces probably more important was on the productivity side.
So as you can see this year our margins on the service side this quarter we are down significantly compared to where they have been historically.
We are expecting to end the year and exit say the fourth quarter closer to 28%.
And our expectation is to continue to grow those over the next several years with the productivity tools I am talking about.
The other piece of that is you mix in the [IS] efforts that we put in place.
So the higher services capability from and again gap fits into the type of discussion for talking about.
Those capabilities of providing Toronto-Dominion with endpoint security we are providing with content distribution.
The other thing outside the traditional hardware and software it’s really the software services becomes the key ingredient for us and those are the capabilities we have been building and those margins are higher.
Certainly if you look at the third element the product margin the product margin is going to be under pressure and that why we put so much emphasis on building agnostic systems and tools on the back end which is very different then it work three four year ago and five years ago relative to being able to improve someone’s network regardless if it’s a Diebold device or someone else’s device.
You know hardware agnostic services capabilities and that applies not just to the self-service business but the security side of the business.
And that would be the last settlement that I would add.
At the security side of the business specifically electronic security gives us a lot of opportunities that we are now focused on and while we don't have a lot of track record during electronic security side put in perspective in the financial services segment here in the US where you have physical security and self-service business with over 50% market share and the electronic security side it’s single-digit so 8% to 9% to 10%.
We've got a lot of opportunity there because of lot of capability there but we've now oriented a lot of the organization in that regard.
So that's the direction we are headed and while we have confidence that we are going to change the margin perspective going forward and beginning in 2013.
We are not talking about wait till 2014 or 2015 but 2013 beginning to change that trajectory.
Thank you and then just one last quick one it sounds like you guys have essentially tabled the idea of buying back stock even at $30 in favor of going out and acquiring stuff.
Can you just flush that out with me in terms of how you are thinking about that and why you have chosen to go that path? I think what we are seeing in the marketplace is evidenced by the till that we recent completed there are some pretty attractive assets out there and some of that can be very accretive to us relatively quickly and while they may not be large in size they give us some competitive capabilities to compete.
So the one in Turkey certainly Turkey is a market that we've entered we are not a one or two player we are a three player there adding a service operation with a kind of breadth and scope that they have allows us to participate in the market that's growing 15% a year or so.
We see that as being a very strategic acquisition right within the core of what we do.
Likewise we are looking at United States relative to those types of operations and in other key markets around the world.
So I would view this as good investment in our key business which allows to accelerate growth and achieve the kind of margin performance that we are looking to achieve through some accretive acquisition.
Brad anything you would add?  No.
I think that covers it.
And we will go next to Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Hi it’s actually Roman for Julio.
First I guess it’s a follow-up to Matt’s first question when you look at North America and you look at the order growth that you've seen in nationals versus regionals.
I guess nothing surprised you on the pace of order growth.
It was more on the margin there but with the visibility you have in the recent quarters and the time lag that it takes from that orders to convert into revenue what do you think the revenue impact in terms of nationals versus regional is for the next two quarters should we expect this mission to continue for the first half of 2013 or beyond? Yeah I would say that that mixed shift will absolutely continue to shift more toward national less toward regional as we go through 2013.
The big fast upgrade cycle relative to ADA PCI which drove a lot of business in the regional really has come to an end.
Now we are back to more of a regular paced replacement and deposit automation being the big driver in regionals but as you get to the smaller regionals they are less and less equipped to get to deposit automation as fast as the mid-tier regionals all the way up to the nationals.
So we see the mix continuing to move in that direction for sure.
And is there any change in the magnitude of that mix over the last few quarters and what sort of delta between order growth in nationals and regionals? Yeah I don't know if I have a percent I can quote right now but certainly it's significant in terms of what it is.
We probably get back to what the actual mix kind of change.
I don’t have that.
The order activity certainly on that.
Okay and then one last one.
And in Brazil and I know that the cost reductions there the headcount reductions there is probably very consistent of what you are doing corporate wide but given that you expect Brazil to bounce back.
I am just a little confused.
Are you timing for a potential slowdown in that region or again is this just a more consistent with what you are doing across the board? Thanks.
We're not expecting a slowdown at all.
I think in Brad’s comment just see in the slide we really expect Brazil to have a very solid 2013.
This is more in programs we put in place over the last six months nine months to recognize the inevitability of the issues we're going to face on the products from a long-term systemic standpoint and making the necessary adjustments there.
Secondly as you move more in those services form of things we need to improve from a productivity standpoint.
So part of these are tools from productivity standpoint as you move to services and part of the reflection of the product environment that we see going on.
So these are necessary important steps for us to be a leaner healthier organization going forward.
Roman I would just kind of reinforce.
I mean this is something we've been looking at and we've been working on but the government bank pushout certainly this isn’t a result of that.
We had a third-party in helping us really look at process in order to look at where we could drive productivity primarily in the corporate overhead of our Brazilian business.
So this is not a reaction to kind of the quarter this is reaction to the product pressures that Tom spoke too as well as quite frankly reacting to operating in a relatively high inflationary environment.
We have to look at this.
And we will go next to Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
I get the point about how full [costing] was the perhaps a little bit defective in terms of anticipating the margin mix but may be as to I misunderstood the prior conversation but I also got the impression that there was so a fairly significant change anyway in the mix between national regional counts quite later on in the quarter.
If there is any truth to that statement? Can you just about the linearity of the change there and what it might be suggesting why would for instance regionals be slowing down at this point in time?  Yeah Paul let me address that.
A lot of that had to do with coming off the PCI ADA upgrade cycle.
As we look out going forward in what we see kind of in the order book would suggest that it’s going to continue movement from the smallest banks that they were just buying an ATM to meet compliance and regulatory requirements to more of a deposit automation replacement product.
When you look at that you look at the top three banks then we look at the next four to 25 the banks four to 25 are moving aggressively and they are moving forward with deposit automation kind of capabilities.
The next set of regional banks the next 1 000 is different than the last set which is probably the remaining 9 000.
The next 1 000 we are seeing activity there but it’s slower than the tier above them and then the bottom group the bottom 9 000 whatever we are seeing that it’s taking longer.
So the amount of revenue may be pretty comparable the amount out of activity may be just as high but again it’s really tilted toward the top 25 or maybe the top 100 and then the second tilt would be sort of the top 1 000 and below that we are seeing much lower and they are taking longer.
So that would be kind of consistent with your question.
And can you I mean what do you think the underlying reason for that difference would be? Yeah so the difference is pretty simple for a lot of these folks.
Number one is that the complexity moving in deposit automation requires a backend capability whether it’s the processing or the in-house capability and for a lot of folks that becomes a big obstacle or big stumbling block which is why we are trying to get them an integrated service.
I mean that's really we are integrated services oriented and we talked about integrated services this quarter.
We said really year-over-year we are down but actually the number of customers is above because lot of it’s oriented towards this just a number of slices down in the number of revenue associated with those price goes down.
So that's why integrated services for us is so important.
It continues to move there.
But I would basically say they got regulatory issues they are facing they have a compliance issue they are facing and then they have backend operational processing issues that are facing.
Thus it’s a longer slow move whereas when you move up to the biggest banks and you are talking about whether it would be a 100 or 300 or 500 or for 2 000 ATMs the benefits are pretty powerful and have the skill set and the competencies to integrate and move those.
And they are expecting and are getting the kind of result that generate continue to rollout.
And we will go next to Michael Kim with Imperial.
Just turning to electronic security.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the gross drivers in the quarter? Was it primarily in the finance vertical is there some initial extension to additional verticals and also any commentary on the mix? Yeah I would say that from the electronic securities front it really was almost across the board at this point.
We are putting more emphasis back on the financial side but we still have a lot of piece of business that extends beyond financial with electronic security.
So I would say as we are building this organization out our expectations are electronic security will continue to grow physical security in this quarter was relatively flat.
So you saw the growth of electronic security evident itself.
When physical security was down 10% or 20% then you mapped any of the growth on the electronic side.
So we put resources against it we think we've the right programs in place and the technical capabilities that we are putting in place and so our goal is to drive electronic security from a recurring revenue standpoint which is different than some of the projects we've done in the past which would be the one time bigger installations or implementations and you get the product revenue but you don't get the ongoing recurring revenue and I would say that's the biggest difference for is to focus on a recurring revenue stream and while its relatively small now again we expect this to grow over time and that’s where we are putting our emphasis and focus and our number one segment is going to be the financial segment.
And is most of the recurring revenue driven by IS or other monitoring type revenue.
It would be a combination of those two.
IS and monitoring.
And what was the progress on any visibility on IS adoption at this point.
Yeah I'm not sure I have I mean we've had a couple of pretty good examples of mid sized contract the $1 million to $2 million range with banks that have adopted IAS really for us to take over some of the infrastructure for their security within those organizations all the way up to some larger ones where they are going to be outsourcing and we are going to take over entire monitoring for them.
So we are seeing a nice wide range but again we are starting out the base is small and it will take some time to grow it and again you are looking a lot of these these are monthly recurring revenue businesses so you need to get a pretty big base for that monthly revenue and the margins associated with that are going to make the kind of impact for a while.
But we absolutely feel good about kind of the pace and direction we are on.
We feel good about the ability that as we focused on it to see the kind of early results that we are seeing.
And we will take our final question from Zahid Siddique with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Couple of quick questions one one of your competitors for the past several quarters has been commenting about gaining share in North America and ATM market I wanted to check with you to see if you have been losing any share in North America over the past several quarters.
I think a couple of things there one is I would point that the simple answer is no we probably feel like we are the one taking the share.
When you look at our growth rate overall on a constant currency basis for the year in self service its going to be 12% to 13%.
I've not seen any competitor anywhere in the world talking at that level on a constant currency basis and that's number one.
If I look at North America I would look at the key components of North America the regional banks base were up 94% I think the question earlier was indicating that some of our competitors are up 50% or somewhere in that range so I mean I look at that and say that we clearly are doing well in that regard and then I would look at the other aspects of a number of accounts and some of the things like that where we feel like again we have a bigger share we are growing faster and have taken more accounts.
So I'm not sure how I can conclude anything that we are either holding or taking a little bit of share but again on quarter-to-quarter basis I don't think that’s as important as saying what are the fundamentals of business or what are we doing long-term systemically and that’s really we get into the integrated services in the service side of the business which we think again is our key differentiator and that’s why the customer accounts and the product is important to us.
It's really for the services and the add-on recurring revenue of service.
So I feel good about where we are at from a share standpoint.
I certainly don’t feel good about where we are at what we perform relative to margin standpoint.
But regards to the Brazil tax assessment that you highlighted if you take that and I guess also the SEPA and if you go back a few years you had revenue recognition issue.
Why do these issues keep on pumping up in one shape or other? Is there something fundamentally wrong somewhere? I think they are very very different issues.
And certainly as I mentioned in my prepared remarks you look at the investment we've made in the compliance area in order to really strengthen our global compliance and give ourselves confidence that in the areas for example like SEPA that we feel confident that we got the controls in place to ensure that we operate in (inaudible) of the laws.
I would point you to certainly in Brazil that the tax assessment that we got and again we take this very seriously but I think you can look at Brazil and look at many multi-nationals and getting tax assessment is not uncommon.
Again we take this one very seriously but it's not uncommon to get a tax assessment.
So I think the issues that we’ve had they are not directly correlated.
We've invested very heavily in our compliance activity as well as our control activity.
And then last question for security you are guiding for full year for revenues to be up 3% to 4%.
I think that implies the Q4 would be up may be 11% or 12% is that a fair assumption?  I think that’s pretty accurate.
And how much is electronic security within the security business?   It’s generally about half.
So again it depends on whether physical security is flat or down a little as to kind of how it shakes out but generally from an overall revenue standpoint physical and electronic today are about 50-50 of the total security picture.
I wanted to turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remark.
Thank you Danna.
Well thank you everyone for joining us this morning and as always if you have follow-up questions please feel free to contact myself or Nick Codispoti directly after the call.
Thanks.
Again that does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to Diebold Incorporated’s Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold’s Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
Joining me today are Henry Wallace Executive Chairman; George Mayes Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also with us in the room today and available to answer questions is Mychal Kempt Vice President North America Operations.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we’ve provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Henry George and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their opening comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as with past calls it’s important to note that we have restructuring non-routine expenses and impairment charges in our financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company’s baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact financial results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I’ll turn it over to Henry.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining our call today.
I want to express my appreciation to our investors our customers and our associates for your patient engagement and ongoing commitment to Diebold during this time of transition.
To be frank the 2012 results and the present outlook for 2013 are disappointing and we need to improve.
I’m sure you’re anxious to understand how we’re going to get this great company back on a more positive trajectory to drive shareholder value.
While we are dissatisfied with our recent performance we have significant opportunities in the marketplace and we have good strategies for growth.
Diebold is far from being a broken company but it is an underperforming company.
Despite the difficult challenges we have faced we have seen progress on several fronts.
We continued to enhance our Financial Self-service offering with more capable terminals and software that improve efficiency and availability.
We’ve expanded our integrated service capabilities and infrastructure evidenced by our expanded systems implementation by our largest IS customer Toronto-Dominion and we intend to leverage that infrastructure to continue to grow the business.
And we’ve strengthened the organization and competencies required to grow our Electronic Security business through both organic and acquisitive means.
Whilst these were all positive developments the operational performance has not met the company’s expectations nor those of our Board of Directors and our shareholders.
While we’ve experienced reasonable revenue growth our margins have continued to erode.
To strengthen our performance we must drive immediate major organizational change and structural cost reductions and accelerate our investment in growth.
Our first task was to realign the organization to more rapidly seize marketplace opportunities and to reduce our cost structure.
By establishing a Chief Operating Officer position we have also created a global model for product development service and supply chain management that will enable us to better leverage synergies across regional divisions while attacking our cost structure.
Previously many of these functions operated independently in various degrees on a regional basis.
And to that end we’ve named George Mayes to this important new role.
George has a track record of delivering.
This makes him ideally suited to drive the rapid improvement required to reach our growth and profitability objectives.
He has the passion the skills and the experience to help Diebold achieve these goals.
And you’ll hear more from George on this front a little bit later.
As I mentioned earlier we have good strategies for growth but we need to improve our execution in order to free up more resources to accelerate our investment in growth and innovation.
Regarding our market opportunities in the Financial Self-service we have global scale unparalleled service capabilities and great product offerings.
And we are deeply trusted by our customers.
As banks around the world face unprecedented cost pressures they have more need today for our solutions than ever before.
We can and we will win in this space.
In our Security business we have identified electronic security as a very attractive market with fast growth good margins and strong recurring revenue potential.
Over the past year or two we began changing our business model to focus less on product sales and installation and more on recurring services and monitoring.
And with Diebold’s strong balance sheet we are well positioned not only to invest in growth opportunities but to continue our exceptional record of returning cash to shareholders.
Last week the board authorized Diebold’s 60th consecutive annual dividend increase the longest standing record among any public company in North America.
This is an achievement we are proud of and we believe we have the right strategy to continue increasing our dividend in the future.
And as you are well aware the board has begun the search process for a new Chief Executive Officer.
We have formed a search committee headed by Rick Crandall a Diebold board member with extensive software and technology experience.
The search committee has engaged Korn/Ferry to conduct a global search to help us identify and evaluate the most qualified candidates for the job.
While we feel a sense of urgency in our search and understand the key issues we need to address there is no set timeframe but we will focus on finding the right person as soon as possible.
Finally I’ve been a Director of Diebold for more than a decade and I would just like to say that I truly believe that we have the strategies the team and the ability to change our trajectory.
We have a strong engaged Board of Directors that is committed to providing the appropriate oversight and to selecting the right leader in a new CEO so that we can unleash the full potential of Diebold and its outstanding people.
And again I’d like to also emphasize that we are committed to delivering shareholder value as an ongoing priority.
I will now turn over to George Mayes.
Thanks.
Thank you Henry.
First let me say that I’m honored to assume the responsibility for operations here at Diebold and I’m extremely optimistic about our future.
As Henry mentioned there is a critical need to focus on our operational improvements.
An increased sense of urgency is imperative in order to extract greater value from our company.
There is opportunity in the markets we serve especially as we consider the strategies we’ve established in important areas such as integrated services and electronic security.
However we need to improve the execution of our strategies and critically the speed with which we execute.
The new reporting relationships we have put in place are designed to rapidly drive the changes required to improve our results.
We are focusing on execution performance improvement and cost reduction.
We will continue to provide the outstanding service our customers expect and we will provide our associates with the essential tools and services necessary to be effective and properly supported in the organization.
In order to improve our financial performance we must address our cost structure.
We will engage the organization and review and evaluate all current activities and costs based on customer value best practices and necessity.
As we seek to improve our performance we cannot and will not jeopardize our ability to maintain our core business grow revenues in new products and markets pursue new alternative business areas or adhere to governance requirements.
This will require a deliberate approach.
We will create a new data-driven business operating model across the Diebold’s entire operation around the globe with execution accountability and most importantly a culture of discipline a new culture where delivering on our commitments is the foundation for everything we do.
I firmly believe in our long-term strategies.
I believe the fundamentals of Diebold’s businesses are sound.
And I am confident in our ability to move quickly and to get the company back on a more positive track.
During our first quarter conference call in April we will provide more detail around our plans for operational improvement.
Now let’s touch briefly on our performance by region on Slide 11.
Starting with North America total revenue for the quarter was flat.
Financial Self-service revenue in the region declined 5% partially offset by security growth of 8%.
Total orders declined in the mid-single digits off tough comparisons from the prior year due to the Financial Self-service business.
As previously discussed we continued to experience a significant mix shift between national and regional accounts negatively impacting profitability.
Moving to Latin America.
Total revenue decreased 6% during the quarter due to a 50% drop in voting and lottery revenue in Brazil as well as currency impact.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased 2%.
Excluding Brazil revenue for the quarter increased approximately 16%.
We experienced two significant customer delays in Brazil which had a negative impact on revenue for the quarter.
Total orders in Latin America increased in the low-double digits but increased more than 20% when excluding the Brazil voting and lottery business.
This growth is primarily due to wins in Colombia Venezuela and Per as deposit automation continues to gain traction.
In the Asia-Pacific region total revenue for the quarter decreased 4% driven mainly by product revenue declines in China and slightly offset by service growth in China and India.
However revenue in the region is up for the year as we maintained our leading market share in China and Thailand.
We experienced strong order growth in excess of 30% in the region during the quarter.
This growth was primarily due to the previously disclosed government bank outsourcing program in India where we are supplying hardware and services to many of the companies acting as lead deployers for state run banks.
Finally in EMEA total revenue for the quarter increased 9% or 12% on a constant currency basis.
This increase was primarily driven by activity in the Middle East and Western Europe.
Despite economic headwinds in the region we saw order growth in the low-single digit and continue to see momentum from our Flex performance series of ATMs.
And after taking $15 million out of our cost structure in 2011 we achieved mostly modest profitability in the region during the quarter and the full year.
We expect to be able to grow our profitability in the region in 2013.
Globally our full year Financial Self-service revenue increased 8% despite the major order delays in Brazil.
On a constant currency basis Financial Self-service’s revenue increased more than 12% for the full year.
Some of our competitors have been making claims of market share gains at our expense.
However our growth in Financial Self-service for the year was notably higher than either of our global competitors.
While we have clearly not executed well on the cost side of our business we are very confident that we have the competitive solutions required to win in the marketplace and maintain our leading position in North America Brazil and elsewhere.
I also believe we have the commitment and drive necessary to accomplish our goals.
I continue to be impressed by the energy will and dedication of Diebold associates throughout our global operations.
They have the capacity to meet the challenge of change to build a high performance culture achieve sustainable reductions in our cost structure and deliver the profitability required to drive future growth and value creation.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Brad.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
Before I get into the details of our fourth quarter and full-year financial results I’d like to address the more significant challenges we faced during the quarter.
While we hit our revenue targets we missed our prior full-year earnings guidance by approximately 10% or $0.20 per share.
This was primarily due to a $25 million operating profit miss in our North America business during the quarter.
In addition our free cash flow was $86 million well below our previous expectations.
Again our lower-than-expected earnings were primarily driven by profit deterioration in North America during the quarter.
The deterioration was related to a number of factors a decline in maintenance revenue including billed-work services due to a tightening of discretionary spending from regional banks led to a $0.06 decline in EPS from our prior full-year guidance.
Our regional business experienced lower-than-expected volume due to certain installation delays compounded by a more competitive price environment.
This resulted in an additional $0.06 adverse impact.
Finally the U.S.
Service business incurred higher costs partially due to an unexpected increase in an auto liability insurance reserve and non-recoverable costs related to Hurricane Sandy which had a negative impact on EPS of $0.05 and $0.03 respectively.
Our free cash flow was also negatively impacted by a number of factors.
Net income adjusted for non-cash items fell short of our expectations causing an adverse impact of approximately $15 million.
In addition our year-end cash collections were negatively impacted by approximately $60 million due to a shift in business mix from regional banks which tend to pay early or in some cases prepay to a stronger concentration of national accounts which typically have a longer payment cycle.
However as shown on Slide 15 on a positive note we were in line with our previous revenue guidance achieving approximately 6% growth over the prior year or 9% on a constant currency basis.
Our core markets while cyclical remain soundly intact.
During the fourth quarter we did experience two large bank customer delays in Brazil which impacted our revenue performance for the full year.
In addition the full-year results in 2012 show our restructuring efforts in EMEA contributed positively to our overall performance.
As previously guided we returned to a profitable position in the region for the full year despite facing economic headwinds.
Despite the underperformance in the quarter with net debt of approximately $20 million we have the financial capacity to invest in growth in key areas such as software services and electronic security as well as investing in our core IT infrastructure.
We continue to evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities in the electronic security and services base to support our key growth strategies.
As we think about our capital allocation strategy we continue to be focused on driving long-term growth of the business and return on capital employed of 15%.
Now to review our financial results.
Turning to Slide 16 total revenue for the quarter was $840 million down approximately 1% from the fourth quarter of 2011 including a negative currency impact of approximately 2%.
The fourth quarter revenue was largely affected by a decline in elections revenue in Brazil.
This was partially offset by strong performance in security EMEA and in Latin America outside of Brazil.
For the quarter Service revenue increased 5% while Product revenue declined by 7%.
Service represented more than 50% of total revenue during the quarter.
Taking a look at the full year 2012 total revenue increased approximately 6% including a negative currency impact of 3%.
We were up in all regions on a constant currency basis.
Looking at our Financial Self-service business on Slide 17 fourth quarter revenue was $631 million a decline of 2% but flat on a constant currency basis.
This was due to a fall off in regional business activity in North America as well as the slight decline in Asia-Pacific against tough comparisons with the prior year.
This was offset by growth in EMEA and Latin America.
The Security business on Slide 18 increased approximately 11% enabling us to achieve our full-year guidance of 3% revenue growth.
In addition our electronic security business saw strong growth in the quarter giving further credence to our electronic security growth strategy.
We remain committed to focusing on growing recurring services in electronic security with less emphasis on one-off enterprise implementation projects.
Turning now to Slide 19 the total gross margin for the fourth quarter declined 4.1 percentage points from 2011 with near equivalent declines in both Product and Service.
We experienced pressure on Product gross margin during the quarter due primarily to the tough comparison we had within the high margin Brazil election business in 2011.
Product gross margins were also impacted by an unfavorable customer mix in North America as regionals comprised a lower percent of the revenue in Q4 2012.
Turning to the Service gross margin.
There was lower volume related to a number of operational and unusual items such as Hurricane Sandy and the insurance reserve I mentioned earlier.
Aside from these factors the underlying Service margin was approximately 27%.
Moving on to non-GAAP operating expense.
As highlighted on Slide 20 in the fourth quarter operating expense decreased $4 million or 30 basis points as a percent of revenue.
We drove underlying improvement of $7 million in our discretionary cost structure in order to free-up monies to cover an incremental $3 million investment in R&amp;D to support future offerings.
For the full year our operating expense performance as a percentage of revenue was down 80 basis points as we leveraged our operating expense structure over greater volume in 2012 while continuing to invest in next-generation hardware and software platforms.
Now to Slide 21 non-GAAP operating margins in the fourth quarter decreased to 5.1 percentage points from 8.9% in 2011.
Our full-year operating margin declined to 6.1 percentage points from 7% in 2011.
While we have driven marked improvements in EMEA Brazil has been highly dilutive to our margins this year due to the cyclical nature of the business there combined with a negative mix shift in North America.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on Slide 22.
Non-GAAP EPS moved from $1.40 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011 to $0.45 per share in the current quarter.
As a reminder fourth quarter 2011 included a non-recurring discrete item of $0.43 a share related to a Brazil tax valuation allowance reserve adjustment.
Turning to the fourth quarter of 2012.
As previously disclosed we accrued approximately $18 million for the eventual resolution of the FCPA related investigation equating to $0.20 per share in EPS.
Also we incurred pension expense of about $22 million related to our early buyout program during the quarter.
This equates to $0.24 per share impact on EPS.
Our full year non-GAAP tax rate was 27.8% in line with our prior expectations.
And finally our full year non-GAAP EPS was $2.07 per share.
Turning to Slide 23.
Free cash flow decreased $103 million in the fourth quarter while the full year free cash flow decreased by $75 million.
Working capital and deferred revenue or what we often called prepayments negatively impacted cash flow for the full year by about $30 million and $65 million respectively.
The driving factors behind these two items was a shift mix – shift in business mix from regional banks which tend to pay early to a stronger concentration of national accounts which typically have a longer payment cycle.
Net income adjusted for non-cash items fell short of our expectations causing an adverse impact of approximately $25 million.
Approximately half of the $45 million benefit shown within the Other category is comprised of lease sales in support of our growing IS business.
Moving next to liquidity and net debt on Slide 24.
We finished the year in a net debt position of approximately $22 million an increase of $14 million from the net debt position at the end of 2011.
As Henry mentioned our strong balance sheet puts us in a position to continue returning cash to shareholders.
Last week the board authorized Diebold’s 60th consecutive year of dividend increases the longest standing performance among any public company in North America.
In addition during the last several years we have returned a solid 3% to 4% dividend yield reflecting the financial strength of our company and our steadfast commitment to our shareholders.
During the quarter we did not repurchase any shares.
While we have roughly 2.4 million shares remaining on a repurchase authorization our investment priorities are our dividend acquisition activity and reinvestment in the business.
In regards to our outlook for 2013 we expect relatively flat revenue overall with growth in Asia and Latin America offset by declines in North America due to the difficult comparison to the U.S.
regional banks’ ADA PCI upgrade cycle in 2012.
While we are encouraged by the strong fourth quarter order growth in Asia-Pacific U.S.
national accounts and Latin America outside of Brazil we expect the U.S.
regional bank space to be down substantially particularly in the first half of the year.
As we’ve previously disclosed we expect EPS to be flat to down moderately.
We are not providing a specific EPS range at this time due to the wide range of possible outcomes on two fronts Brazil and the U.S.
regional bank space.
In Brazil there are several large tenders that are outstanding specifically two of these tenders pushed out from 2012 to 2013.
The first deal is with Banco do Brasil.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 the bank conducted a public bid to upgrade 45 ATMs which we won.
Subsequently the bank cancelled the award as they decided to replace rather than upgrade the units.
The second tender was with Caixa Econômica for replacement of 6 500 ATMs occurring during the fourth quarter we won that bid.
Subsequently one of our competitors protested on technical grounds and the bid was cancelled.
The bank is re-bidding this business in 2013.
These two government bank tenders coupled with other large orders represent a total opportunity to replace 18 000 ATMs in Brazil in 2013.
Additionally in the U.S.
regional space demand has been consistently weaker than our expectations.
Though we believe order activity stabilized during the fourth quarter we’ll have a clearer view of this market once we fully progress through the first quarter.
So in addition to the typical range of outcomes found in our business this activity in Brazil and the U.S.
regional bank space adds about $30 million of potential operating profit variation for 2013.
Given the timing of the two Brazil orders and the relatively weak order activity with the U.S.
regional banks during the second half of 2012 we expect the first quarter earnings to be well below historical norms.
As a result we anticipate 20% to 25% of 2013 EPS to be delivered in the first half of the year.
We will have better clarity after the first quarter orders come in and we see a return to more normal discretionary spending around billed-work.
We will update our outlook as we get more visibility on these factors throughout the year.
Moving on to free cash flow on Slide 26.
Our expectations for 2013 are based on the following assumptions flat to moderately down earnings; relatively stable core working capital elements; and prepay activity versus a negative cash impact of $70 million in 2012; and a slight increase in capital expenditures to approximately $60 million.
Taking these factors into consideration and excluding the impact of any potential FCPA related settlements we believe the business is capable of generating free cash flow of at least $100 million in 2013.
This is more than enough to sustain our dividend and continued investments in our growth initiatives.
In closing we faced a challenging fourth quarter.
However as Henry indicated the fundamentals of our business remain sound and our four growth strategies remain intact branch transformation and deposit automation integrated services electronic security and emerging markets.
These strategies along with the operational improvement initiative that George is driving are designed to offset underlying margin pressure we have in the core business.
And finally our solid balance sheet positions us to capitalize on growth opportunities and deliver sustained shareholder value.
With that I’ll turn it back to John.
Thank you Brad.
Before we head to questions in the interest of giving everyone on the call an opportunity to ask a question I would ask you to respectfully limit yourself to one question and one follow-up and then get back in queue and we’ll take as many questions as time allows.
So with that Jennifer can we open it up to the first question?  Yes.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Ryan Augustitus with Northcoast Research.
Hi.
Good morning.
Have there been any retention programs put in place to keep key management personnel?  Ryan this is Henry Wallace.
I’ll answer that.
The answer is no.
Our view is on retention that the best way to retain our people is to get the business moving forward and upwards and that’s what we’re focused on as a team.
That doesn’t mean to say we might not lose one or two people that’s always a risk but paying people to stay when their mindset is to go because they’re unhappy with the company isn’t a good strategy.
So our aim is clearly to get this business moving upwards and onwards a place where people get up in the morning and want to come and work because it’s a company that’s going places and that’s our real focus here.
Okay.
And then one more question what is the current environment like for acquiring electronic security businesses?  Ryan it’s Brad here.
Certainly as you are aware I mean we’ve looked at several opportunities.
We’ve gotten very far along in those opportunities.
In one particular we ran in to a valuation issue.
So I think the point being is there are lots of opportunities out there.
We are focused clearly on looking in the electronic security space to acquire a beachhead.
Again there are multiple opportunities and these are tucked away in private equity portfolios or their family-owned and we see good opportunity to acquire a beachhead and then have several bolt-ons thereafter.
So again there’s lots of opportunities out there.
And I would just also make the point that again as Henry mentioned as I mentioned I mean we have strong balance sheet capacity.
This is a core strategy that’s been reviewed with the board.
And so this is something that we’ll move forward with ahead of a CEO coming onboard as the opportunities come to fruition.
Thank you.
And next we’ll move to a question from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Thanks for taking my question.
So I think you went through the fact that last year you actually gained share on a global basis.
Going forward especially as you think of the emerging markets Middle East Africa Asia-Pacific do you have an opportunity to gain share? You went through some issues a couple of years ago around FCPA and divesting and strategically realigning the European business.
Going forward into the next couple of years do you now have an opportunity to possibly gain some shares as your big U.S.-based competitor’s going through the same issues?  Yes this is George.
I think when you look at our ability to gain share we’re very excited about our new next-generation ATM.
We believe that we will be able to differentiate ourselves in the market based on total cost of ownership reliability and some of our advanced security features as well as if you look at the success that we’re having with our Flex ATM units around the globe we think there’s additional runway there as well as emerging markets move towards deposit automation.
Got it.
And then in terms of electronic security giving you more of a recurring revenue of your service component within Security what portion of that is recurring maintenance/monitoring type revenue versus the one-time oriented installation professional services type revenue?  Yeah Gil.
It’s Brad.
I mean the electronic security business profile that we have is very similar to the total company with about half of the revenues of the total security business being services locked up under typical type maintenance type agreements and monitoring agreements.
Okay.
Next we’ll take a question from Michael Kim with Imperial Capital.
Hi good morning guys.
Yeah just again on electronic security with the pending leadership change does that change the timing of any potential activity to grow that business strategically at least until you have a permanent CEO?  No I don’t think it’s going to change it at all.
Essentially we set up our new organization in security over the last couple of years.
We’re building our muscle there and we intend to go grow the business.
And so as and when we get the opportunity to acquire the right companies we’ll do that.
It’ll depend obviously on are they bringing the right capabilities to us and can we make the right investments that will pay off and grow the business going forward.
But it isn’t dependent upon a CEO being here or not.
The board has endorsed this strategy and we’re committed to investing in that space.
Okay.
Great.
And then just on the electronic security business itself one of your larger competitors in this sector recently talked about expanding their focus on the financial and banking vertical.
They had made a fairly acquisition and expanded in North America.
Are you seeing any increasing competition for new projects and more generally on the environment?  Yeah.
Michael it’s Brad.
I mean again as we pointed out in the fourth quarter our total security business grew by about 11% and certainly the growth in the electronic security business was even stronger.
Our targeted market as you know is focused on the financial institutions.
And we’ve seen very good success in that marketplace.
And we’ll now hear from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Good morning.
George I’m curious to hear what your thoughts are behind Diebold’s sort of general inability to forecast revenue profit and cash flow over the last few quarters? And how quickly that can be remedied? And how you’re attacking that?  Well clearly I think that there’s room for improvement in terms of our forecasting.
There is significant unpredictability in our business given our concentrated nature of our end markets in the U.S.
and Brazil specifically.
And I think if you look at the opportunities in Brazil and the opportunities we have with the public tenders as we go forward in 2013 timing and the outcome of those tenders will really give us ability to improve our forecasting as we go forward.
And then just one follow-up.
Henry maybe you can comment.
Early on in your prepared remarks you mentioned that how displeased the board has been with the level of execution in this company.
I guess what gives you the confidence to move forward with this M&amp;A strategy and potentially do what I would imagine would be the biggest acquisition Diebold’s done in its history?  Well I don’t know what you mean by the biggest acquisition that Diebold has done in its history.
But let me take it one step at a time.
Our issue is we’re concerned about the short-term performance of the company.
And I think we’ve got strategies in place to rebuild that and to refocus our energies and basically harvest the capabilities of our global organization so that we can generate more cash in the business which is more cash for investing into growth areas.
In terms of what we buy we’re still looking at those.
I haven’t seen anything that that makes me feel as though it’s the biggest investment that we’ve ever seen.
But we will be obviously looking in electronic security to find a platform that we can really build the business around.
And then I would imagine it would be a series of small acquisitions to bolt onto that because this is a very fragmented business throughout the U.S.
And therefore this – once we’ve got the platform established and what we need to do it will then be how quickly we want to invest and ratchet up those smaller acquisition capabilities.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And now we’ll hear from Paul Coster with JP Morgan.
Thank you for taking the question.
Obviously the regional bank business the comps have gotten pretty tough and it sounds out of your control but it sounds like it disappointed nonetheless.
What do you attribute the disappointment to? Is it products? Is it sales? Is it the assessment of the pipeline? And what do you think you can do about it?  Yeah.
This is George.
I think from my view as in the U.S.
market as in all of our markets we continue to face some pretty significant competitive pressures along with pricing pressures.
And clearly the mix change between the national and regional space had a lot to do with our performance as well in 2012.
I’d like to ask Mychal to add some color there.
Thanks George.
As Brad stated previously we have seen in our regional bank segment a reset to more – to a more normalized rate coming off of this big 88 PCI upgrade cycle in 2011 and 2012.
We do still see though deposit automation is driving incremental improvements to our normal core business run rate but it’s just at a much slower adoption rate than we had previously expected in the segment.
Okay.
So the implication is that – it’s just the customers faded away it wasn’t that your pipeline was sort of overstated or that the – the sales team was so overly optimistic?  That’s correct.
We just – we’re really seeing a reset in the business back to kind of our core run rate that would set up for pre-ADA PCI levels.
Yeah Paul just again just to support Mychal’s point again I mean we’ve got – as we forecast what happened in the fourth quarter we had very good kind of visibility to what was going to be scheduled and delivered.
But we did see in the fourth quarter some customer delays where they pushed installation into 2013.
So we are seeing again that’s driven by the overall softness in the marketplace.
And now we’ll take a follow-up question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Just two follow-ups maybe to help illustrate some of the margin pressure you’ve seen Brad can you give any detail around what your mix was in North American Product revenue in the first quarter of 2012 versus where you see it right now?  Yeah.
Let me just I won’t answer your question exactly but I think it’s helpful to look at kind of the mix between regionals and nationals in total and again there’s Product and Service component to that.
But as it relates to kind of the Product side I mean in the first quarter 80% of our revenues were into that regional space.
When we concluded 2012 the fourth quarter we were at 60% so we saw a very significant mix shift as we’ve talked about on this call from the regionals back to the national throughout the year.
And then George as you’ve done a lot of work in tackling sort of the product related cost of goods sold I guess what’s sort of left in the gas tank there as you’ve kind of realigned manufacturing? You’ve done a lot with supply chain and yet the product margins are still under pressure and I get the whole mix thing but at the end of the day margins need to move up not down.
And then what’s your sort of initial impression on the cost structure of the Service business and what you can bring to the table there?  Well I think the most important part of our restructuring here our reorganization is that by creating the global functional organization it allows us to have a single focus a single owner a clear sight of ownership and responsibility accountability to drive results.
And so in the past I think we’ve made significant improvements but those improvements often stopped at – between the functional boundaries of the organizations.
And so with the new organizational structure in place I’m very excited about our opportunities to drive additional cost savings throughout the company especially in the Services area.
And we will hear from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Maybe one quick one with a quick follow-up.
On the – the visibility that you guys have into the capital expenditure budgets or the IT budgets of your bank customers in the U.S.
do you guys have a good sense right now on what that’s trending like? Are budgets up flat or any color that you guys can provide there in terms of the expectations would be helpful?  Yeah thank you.
This is Mychal Kempt.
I would say right now there’s been a bit of a pause coming off of this ADA PCI run and that as we look out into 2013 right now it’s a little bit soft in terms of the feedback we’re getting from our customers.
So as they’re starting to look out there is a tremendous amount of work to be done.
And they don’t have great clarity on their capital budgets but it’s – see a fairly soft start and each month as we move forward I gain a little bit better clarity as to how the year’s going to shape up.
Okay.
And then secondly on Brazil I think we’re two or three quarters now into this order that keeps getting delayed.
At what point do you guys just sort of write it off and say it’s just not going to happen? Or is there something that essentially guarantees that eventually that work turns to revenue for you guys?  No I mean we feel like ultimately I mean these units need to be replaced.
They need to be upgraded.
So we do believe that those ultimately will come to fruition.
Again the two orders that we spoke to we won those outright.
They got cancelled for various reasons.
And we do expect those orders to come back for public tender here in the first half of the year with assuming that we win – which again we’ve had a very very good track record -but assuming we win then those would be delivered in the second half of this year.
But again pointing out that there are many variables here.
And this is why we talked about the variation in the earnings.
One is as you point out Julio the auction has to take place.
It has to take place in a timely manner such that then we have the opportunity to win it and then execute on it in the second half.
So again there’s a lot of variables here that we’re watching very very closely.
Thank you.
And at this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
John Kristoff for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Jennifer.
And I’d just like to thank everyone for joining us on the call this morning.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact me directly or Nick Codispoti.
Thank you very much.
Thank you sir.
That does conclude today’s conference call.
We do thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Diebold Incorporated's First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer John Kristoff.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Camille.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold's first quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Henry Wallace Executive Chairman; George Mayes Chief Operating Officer; and Brad Richardson Chief Financial Officer.
Also with us in the room today and available to answer questions is Mychal Kempt our Head of North American Operations.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we’ve provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Henry George and Brad will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as with past calls it’s important to note that we have restructuring charges non-routine and amortization expenses and non-routine income in our financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company’s baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
I should also note that we intend to file our 10-Q this afternoon.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact financial results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And with that I'll turn it over to Henry to open things up.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
The first quarter loss we reported this morning was extremely disappointing to all of us at Diebold but it was not unexpected.
In fact it was in line with our internal forecast.
In late 2012 as we developed our forecast for 2013 we could see a significant shift taking place in our North American business.
This put significant downward pressure on our profitability.
At the same time our 2013 profit outlook for Latin America/Brazil and Asia Pacific was projected to be weak in the first half and very much back-end loaded.
These trends together with our increasing need to reduce our cost structure pointed to a very weak first and second quarter.
Faced with this situation we moved quickly in January to develop a plan to change the trajectory of the company.
We implemented senior management changes and are presently interviewing candidates for the new CEO.
This process is going well and we remain focused on finding the right person for the job.
Timing is still open but I'm encouraged by the quality of candidates that we are seeing.
We established the position of a Chief Operating Officer and appointed George Mayes to that position.
Our international business is significantly larger and more complex than it was a decade ago and we need real focus on driving the execution of our strategies and plans with a focus on speed discipline and accountability in our operations around the world.
We've reorganized our product development service and supply chain operations as global functions.
This will speed up our capabilities to develop products leverage best practices and improve processes to significantly drive operational excellence and lower costs across our regional operations.
We have already executed a series of short-term actions to reduce personnel other costs and discretionary spending to counteract declining profitability and we should start to see the benefits from these actions as the year goes on.
And finally we've kicked up a series of transformational work streams to significantly streamline the company and provide the foundation for moving Diebold to a top-performing company.
As we're undertaking these actions the fundamentals of the company remain strong.
We have experienced senior management -- a significant senior management team leading our efforts; in both the financial self-service and security markets we have global scale unparalleled service capabilities and great product offerings; and we are deeply trusted by our customers.
In addition we have a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity for our needs.
Our growth initiatives in bank transformation integrated services electronic security and emerging markets are progressing well and will drive future growth.
However growth for growth's sake is not acceptable.
We need to grow the company on a profitable basis.
And to this end the team is really focused on rapidly fixing our financial position so that we can generate improved margins which will provide leverage to our growth generate the cash to fund our transformational initiatives and our other growth strategies whilst at the same time continuing to return cash to our shareholders through dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
As such we expect 2013 to be a year of rebuilding taking the necessary action and making the appropriate investments to improve our financial condition and profitability of the company and to position the company for future profitable growth.
We still expect 2013 on a non-GAAP earnings basis to be flat to down moderately from 2012 and on relatively flat revenue.
George Mayes is going to take you through the details of our transformation plans.
And then Brad Richardson will go through the financial results and the cost savings associated with the multi-year realignment plan.
So I'll hand it over -- the call to George and later we'll do the Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Thank you Henry.
As previously mentioned we have moved quickly with an increased sense of urgency to take the actions necessary to extract greater value from our company.
The 3 key areas we are quickly making changes to better position the company include: organizational realignment structural cost reductions and investments in growth.
As we rebuild our company we recognize the emergent opportunity in the markets we serve such as brands transformation integrated services and electronic security.
And we continue to invest in these areas.
In order to realize positive acceleration we are taking critical steps to shape the long-term trajectory of the company.
As Henry mentioned we have been moving quickly to develop a multi-year global realignment plan including near- and long-term actions in order to accelerate the improvement in our performance.
Most importantly we are taking an approach that has been proven and tested.
We are focusing on improving our critical business processes.
This is different than in the past.
This process focus will ensure that we sustain our gains in the future as we change the trajectory of the company.
We have set a target to reduce our cost structure by $100 million to $150 million.
The targeted savings should be completed by the end of 2014 and the total savings are expected to be fully realized by the end of 2015.
While this target is considerable there is leverage in our business model that we have yet to realize.
The near-term actions the company has taken include reducing our headcount by 700 full-time positions primarily in North America and corporate operations.
The majority of these job reductions have already taken place.
We continue to rationalize in our manufacturing facilities by selling our operations in Lynchburg Virginia and Lexington North Carolina.
In order to make sure that we have supplied the right partner for this activity the sale was completed with a long-time material supplier.
We took additional actions to reduce our discretionary spend.
This included restricting nonessential travel reducing the number of company vehicles canceling noncritical consulting engagements and reducing spending on all non-core marketing activities and other initiatives.
As we discussed in February we created a flat centralized management structure.
This new structure is now fully deployed and is enabling us to take swift action and drive clear accountability across our global operations.
In addition we've identified 4 long-term transformation initiatives.
Our first initiative is geared towards globalizing our service organization and processes.
This new structure provides the framework for managing the increasing global and complex nature of our services business.
This enables us to maximize efficiencies drive improved performance and customer satisfaction while reducing our service costs.
Second we have created a unified global organization for new hardware and software solution development and management.
This allows us to eliminate duplication of effort and we can leverage solutions developed regionally across the globe.
This new organization will enable us to increase our speed to market and drive down the costs of our products.
Third we are transforming our general and administrative cost structure by increasing utilization of our existing shared service centers in lower-cost regions.
We are instituting common processes and leveraging industry best practices across the company.
Our last initiative is focused on our commercial effectiveness.
This includes reevaluating our pricing strategies and reducing fixed costs within our sales organization globally.
This important initiative will improve our speed to market make us more responsive to our customers while optimizing the management of our product life cycles.
To manage these initiatives we have created a transformation management office or TMO.
The TMO was made up of a core team of zinger executives within the company.
The TMO will provide the governing structure and mechanisms required to ensure the execution of our key initiatives.
The TMO process will define and deploy common metrics.
Most importantly the TMO will provide the structure for their financial discipline and validation for all cost-reduction initiatives to ensure that the savings are realized and that they hit the bottom line.
The TMO meets every 2 weeks to review the plan for each area and ensure that we are on track and taking corrective action to achieve our desired results.
We have taken decisive action over the past 90 days.
I want to emphasize strongly that this is just the beginning of our efforts.
We still have more work ahead of us to reach our long-term cost reduction target and return the company to a more positive growth outlook.
As Henry indicated we're very confident in our team's ability to deliver our goals moving forward.
From a strategic perspective we continue to see significant opportunities in the marketplace which align very well with our growth initiatives.
For example we continue to see adoption of branch transformation solutions including deposit automation.
In fact we recently deployed a custom in-lobby terminal for Bank of America.
This new solution includes the capability to interact with an off-site teller through videoconferencing and provides cash recycling technology a first in the United States market.
Our integrated services business continues to grow and we now have approximately 20 000 ATMs under contract in North America alone.
From an electronic security perspective we've recently introduced a new security management tool called SecureStat which will revolutionize how customers manage their security network and operations.
This new software platform will give us key competitive advantage in the market allowing us to further penetrate and grow our presence in electronic security.
Globally we continue to build our leadership position in emerging markets.
Diebold holds the largest market share in Brazil through leading-edge technology and services capability.
We are also a leading ATM supplier and the largest managed service provider in India.
Additionally Turkey is one of the fastest-growing ATM markets in the world.
And with our recent acquisition of Altus a leading IT service provider we gained a good deal of scale from a service perspective in the country.
Now let's review our regional businesses beginning with Slide 13.
Starting with North America total revenue for the quarter was down 17% driven by tough comparisons due to the strong regional bank business and related ADA and PCI upgrade activity in the prior year period.
Financial self-service revenue in the region declined 24% driven by lower product volume and security was relatively flat.
Total orders were down in the mid-single digit range.
This is the result of a significant decline in regional bank orders which is nearly offset by a record order entry quarter from the national accounts.
As such we continue to experience a significant mix shift between national and regional accounts negatively impacting our profitability.
Although the quarter was challenging we made great progress on several key business initiatives.
For example we are seeing growing interest in our in-lobby terminal as evidenced by the recent national news coverage of Bank of America adopting this solution as part of its branch transformation strategy.
This represents a critical element in the company's branch transformation growth strategy and demonstrates the value of Diebold's solution.
Today we have the hardware and the software in place that enables our partners to differentiate themselves in the marketplace while enhancing their customers’ experience.
In security our team was recently recognized with an industry award for work on a security project with St.
Regis Bal Harbour Resort in Miami Beach Florida.
The award honors security integrators that exemplified professionalism in sales marketing and installation endeavors.
We earned this top industry award for solving a complex security challenge by integrating multiple systems to strengthen the security responses across facilities.
Also during the quarter we secured a major security hardware and services deal with one of the top banks in the U.S.
which is now our singlest largest -- which is now a single largest electronic security customer.
This is the most recent example supporting our strategy to grow the electronic security business within the financial industry.
Now turning to Latin America.
Total revenue decreased 10% during the quarter due to negative currency impact of 7% and lower volume in the ATM business.
Security revenue was up significantly as we continue to focus on growing our share in Latin America.
In Brazil the first quarter included results of GAS the online and mobile banking security company we acquired in the third quarter of 2012.
GAS is growing faster than we had anticipated and we note that there's opportunity to leverage this technology in other regions.
Total orders in Latin America and Brazil decreased more than 30%.
This is primarily related to a large order from Caixa for 3 800 ATMs in the prior year period resulting in a tough comparison.
As we discussed last quarter we were expecting 2 major ATM tenders to occur in the first half of the year.
We recently won the public bid related to one of these tenders Caixa for 6 500 units and expect to complete certification and begin order fulfillment in the second quarter.
We remain optimistic in regards to the other public tender from Banco do Brasil for 10 000 ATMs which is expected to occur in May.
Now let's move to Asia Pacific.
In the Asia Pacific region total revenue for the quarter increased 17%.
We experienced strong order growth for more than 30% driven mainly by timing of product orders in China.
Demand remains strong in Asia Pacific and we expect moderate top line growth for the year in the region.
And finally in EMEA total revenue for the quarter increased 2% or 5% on a constant currency basis.
This increase was driven mainly by activity in emerging markets such as Turkey where we are gaining traction from our recent acquisition of Altus.
Orders decreased in the low double digits as we continue to focus on fewer key markets where the company has a stronger competitive position and can generate better margins.
On another note we secured a major win during the quarter in a key regional account in Italy for our recently developed Flex terminals.
This reinforces our reputation with strategic customers and demonstrates the value proposition of this new series of self-service terminals.
In conclusion we see opportunity in all of our core markets.
We have taken definitive action to improve our performance.
We recognized that to capitalize on these growth opportunities and profitability we must continue to focus on reducing our cost structure.
As Henry mentioned we expect 2013 to be a rebuilding year taking the swift and necessary actions I mentioned earlier in my comments in order to improve the financial condition and long-term profitability of the company.
And as an organization we are fully committed to making the changes necessary to get the company on a more positive path and deliver value to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call over to Brad to review the quarter and quantify the cost-savings initiatives.
Thank you very much George and good morning everyone.
Let me walk you through our first quarter financial performance.
Then I would like to spend some time providing further details behind the rationale objective and savings associated with the realignment plan we announced this morning.
Finally I will discuss our outlook for 2013.
As you can see on Slide 17 we reported total revenue for the quarter of $634 million down approximately 9% from the first quarter 2012.
This includes approximately 2% negative currency impact primarily related to the Brazilian reais.
In North America revenue was down about 17%.
As we noted on our year-end earnings call in February the North American region is down off a very tough comparison to the prior year period.
During the prior year period we set a milestone for the highest first quarter revenue in earnings in the company's history.
This was a result of a strong demand in the high margin regional bank business driven by accelerated ATM installations related to the March deadline for ADA and PCI requirements for ATMs.
Revenue in Latin America was down about 10% mostly attributable to the timing of major ATM tenders in Brazil.
The decline in the Americas was partially offset by revenue growth in Asia Pacific of approximately 17% as well as positive growth in EMEA where we are encouraged with the continued progress of our restructuring efforts.
However profit margins in these regions are significantly below what we generate in North America which impacted our global profitability during the quarter.
Both product and service revenue decreased 17% and 4% respectively.
From a mix perspective service represented 60% of the total revenue during the quarter.
Looking at our financial self-service business on Slide 19.
First quarter revenue was $496 million a decrease of 12% or 10% on a constant currency basis.
Again this was due to the decrease in ADA and PCI compliance-related volumes in the prior period in North America.
The security business on Slide 19 grew approximately 2% due to the strong growth from electronic security of 7% as well as the GAS acquisition in Brazil in the third quarter of 2012 which contributed about $3 million in the first quarter.
Overall revenue was partially offset by declines in our physical security business.
We are encouraged by the strong growth in new business and electronic security we booked in the financial and commercial markets in North America where orders grew nearly 40% in the first quarter.
This activity underpins our forecast for a strong second half.
Turning now to Slide 20 the total gross margin for the first quarter decreased 6.6 percentage points from 2012.
Overall both service and product margins were negatively impacted by the substantial volume drop in our North American regional bank business.
Service gross margins for the quarter decreased 4.8 percentage points from 2012.
This decrease is mostly attributable to the lower installation volume in the regional bank business in North America which caused a service mix differences as well as a decreased utilization of our fixed cost structure.
However given the cost savings associated with the realignment of our global service organization coupled with greater expected installation volume in the second half of the year we anticipate service margins for the full year 2013 to improve over the 25.7% 2012 level.
Product gross margin for the quarter decreased 9.3 percentage points which was almost all attributable to North America.
In addition to the volume drop in North America we saw a mix shift towards national accounts which led to further margin deterioration between periods.
Latin America also showed deterioration mainly due to significantly lower product volume against the fixed cost structure of our manufacturing plant in Brazil.
Moving on to non-GAAP operating expense on Slide 21.
In the first quarter operating expense as a percent of revenue was up 1 point due to the decline in revenue.
However our actual operating expense declined $6 million.
As George noted earlier we continue to drive down spending in our operating cost structure through our transformation initiatives.
We expect full year operating expense as a percent of revenue in 2013 to be about 1 percentage point lower than 2012 reflecting absolute cost reductions of approximately $30 million.
Now to Slide 22 non-GAAP operating margin in the first quarter decreased to 0.6% from 8.2% in 2012.
We were impacted by the negative mix shift in North America and the dilutive impact from Brazil.
While this decrease is quite significant the performance was in line with our prior internal expectations.
As I mentioned during the previous call we knew that we were facing a weak start to the year and that our 2013 outlook was heavily dependent upon second-half performance.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation table on Slide 23.
Non-GAAP EPS moved from $0.74 per share in the first quarter of 2012 to a loss of $0.04 per share in the current quarter.
Our non-GAAP tax rate moved considerably from 23% in 2012 to more than 350% in 2013.
The non-GAAP rate -- tax rate was unusually high because of the mix of income which is more heavily weighted to the U.S.
where the tax rate is significantly higher than foreign jurisdictions.
For the full year we expect the tax rate to be in the mid-20% range.
It's also important to note that below the operating profit line other income for the quarter decreased by $8 million from the prior year period which was also negatively impacted -- which also negatively impacted EPS by approximately $0.10 per share.
This was attributable to lower investment income primarily in Brazil and foreign exchange losses related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
Turning to cash flow on Slide 24.
Free cash used for the first quarter 2013 was $41 million compared with a free cash use of $38 million in the first quarter of 2012.
In contrast our first quarter 2011 was a free cash use of $101 million.
Considering the impact of the regional bank business had on the first quarter 2012 net income I am pleased with our position at this point in the year.
We're well positioned to achieve our full year free cash flow guidance of more than $100 million.
Slide 25 highlights the progress we have been making on our cash conversion cycle.
In the first quarter we saw considerable improvement in our cash conversion cycle from 77 days to 72 days.
This was primarily driven by an improvement in inventory turns.
Looking at Slides 26 and 27 days sales outstanding deteriorated by 12 days from the prior year moving from 48 to 60 days.
A higher mix of revenue from U.S.
national accounts and Asia Pacific where customer payments tend to be slower than in other regions adversely impacted DSO for the current quarter.
Inventory turns improved by approximately 1 turn over 2012 at 5.2 turns.
Moving next to liquidity and net debt on Slide 28.
We finished the quarter in a net debt position of approximately $82 million an increase of $60 million from the net debt position at the end of 2012.
In addition from a transparency standpoint I'd like to update you on 2 areas regarding our liquidity and financial stability.
We had $75 million of our private placement notes mature in March.
I will be meeting with insurance companies this week to raise approximately $150 million in private placement notes.
The funds will be used to pay down our revolver and allow for expanded capacity for investment in the business.
The second area I wanted to provide an update is on our pension funding status.
On a mark-to-market basis on December 31 2012 we were funded at 76% of the projected benefit obligation.
And at the end of the first quarter 2013 we were funded at 81%.
While we are not required to provide further additional funding to the plan we are evaluating a voluntary contribution of $30 million by the third quarter through the use of Treasury shares.
Moving to Slide 21 -- 29 excuse me I would like to provide a brief update on our compliance initiatives.
We are actively engaged with the DOJ and SEC working towards a resolution of the FCPA matter.
In addition we are continuing to defend our positions on the previously disclosed Brazil tax matter and the ongoing shareholder class action lawsuit related to the prior SEC restatement.
The resolution of any of these matters could be material to our financial results moving forward.
Now I'd like to walk you through the details around the multi-year realignment plan we announced today.
Over the past several years we have seen decent revenue growth.
However that has not translated into improved profitability as 2012 represented the fourth straight year of operating margins between 6% and 7%.
In addition our free cash flow in 2012 was substantially below our historical average.
There are several key situations that have negatively impacted our revenue and profit growth over the last several years.
The cumulative effect of the following key areas has led to overall slow revenue growth and ultimately an erosion of the company's overall profitability leading into this year.
First in North America we have a very strong market position and generally good profitability.
But it is a mature market with low revenue growth and a highly cyclical regional bank business.
Over the last several years the company has become increasingly dependent on this market to drive overall financial performance.
Second the Asia Pacific market offers a high revenue growth opportunity but the proliferation of many local competitors particularly in China and India has resulted in sustained price erosion throughout the region creating significant margin pressure.
In Brazil we've maintained our market share position despite the loss of business from Bradesco.
However Bradesco purchasing patterns were fairly steady and provided a level loading effect to the business.
The vast majority of the remaining business in Brazil is driven by large auction tenders which lead to increased volatility and competitive pricing pressures.
In addition the lottery and election system businesses there is very cyclical.
Finally our administrative cost structure is very U.S.-centric and has been negatively impacted by significant increases in pension expense which has grown from near 0 in 2008 to an expected $30 million in 2013.
Also we've made necessary investments in our legal compliance and IT infrastructure.
The sum of these effects has increased business volatility and continued price erosion in certain markets combined with our high fixed cost structure that is not competitive with industry peers.
The result has been unacceptable shareholder returns that are underperforming against our peers and the market as a whole.
In order to improve our financial performance and reverse this trend we have developed a plan to take transformative actions to accelerate our operational execution and change the rate of improvement.
From a strategic perspective we are making necessary investments in growth in our core markets and emergency -- emerging adjacency such as electronic security and branch transformation.
However it's also critical that we address our cost structure to improve our competitive position and enable us to accelerate investment in our growth initiatives.
As George stated we aim to reduce our cost structure by $100 million to $150 million.
We have reviewed and assessed our company-wide operating model including benchmarking our costs with key peers.
As a result we believe we can generate meaningful cost improvements in the specific areas George outlined in his comments.
We expect to reinvest a portion of the savings resulting from our realignment plan in R&amp;D to speed new solution to market.
Also we will invest in improved infrastructure such as information technology systems to execute on our electronic security and financial self-service strategies.
The remaining savings will be used to improve our profitability as well as offset ongoing price erosion wage inflation in emerging markets and volatile commodity prices in our core business.
Given these factors the company expects that approximately 50% of the savings will positively impact operating profit on a go-forward basis.
The substantial portion of the actions necessary to achieve the targeted savings should be completed by the end of 2014 and the total savings are expected to be fully realized by the end of 2015.
We incurred restructuring charges of approximately $10 million in the quarter resulting from this realignment plan.
We estimate additional future restructuring costs of between $15 million to $30 million related to the plan.
The actions the company has taken to date are expected to account for approximately $60 million of the overall savings which is already included in our 2013 outlook.
These actions as George outlined include reducing headcount rationalizing manufacturing facilities cutting discretionary spend and globalizing certain aspects of our management structure.
The ultimate goal of all of these actions is to improve cash flow to generate the investment capacity required to execute on our growth strategies.
Now I'll address our 2013 outlook on Slide 34.
We still expect 2013 non-GAAP earnings to be flat to down moderately from 2012 and for revenue to be relatively flat.
However we have increased confidence in our outlook based on where we are with the cost savings initiatives we announced today and our order growth in specific areas such as U.S.
National Accounts Asia Pacific and electronic security.
That said Brazil remains a wildcard for 2013.
While we have won one of the largest tenders it came in later than expected and at lower margins.
And we still have several other options that yet -- have yet to take place and the outcome around timing and profitability is uncertain.
This has negatively impacted our second quarter forecast and risk remains for the full year.
Moving on to free cash flow guidance on Slide 35.
As I mentioned earlier we are reiterating our prior guidance provided in February 2013.
Our expectations are based on the following assumptions: flat to moderately down earnings; relatively stable core working capital elements and prepayment activity versus a negative cash impact of $70 million in 2012; and a slight increase in capital expenditures to approximately $60 million.
Taking these factors into consideration and excluding the impact of any potential FCPA-related settlement we believe the business is capable of generating free cash flow of at least $100 million in 2013.
This is more than enough to sustain our dividend and continued investments in our growth initiatives.
In closing I want to reiterate a few comments.
Despite facing a challenging first quarter we are confident that executing our realignment plan will allow us to deliver on our growth strategies.
In addition our balance sheet positions us to fully capitalize on our growth opportunities and deliver sustained shareholder value.
And our leadership team is fully invested in and committed to the company's success.
With that I'll turn it back to John.
Thanks Brad.
Camille we'll take our first question now please.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Gil Luria with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Brazil as a big swing factor last quarter you quantified the swing factor as about $30 million of operating income.
A quarter into the year with knowing that we won one of those deals is that swing factor any lower at this point in time? Yes Gil.
It's Brad.
I think that's still a good approximation.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of those deals the one you won as well as the 2 that are still out there should you win them the mix of rollouts would it be mostly this year mostly next year? What's the ratio between the ATMs you would rollout this year versus next year? Yes Gil I mean I think it's roughly about half would come into -- maybe half to a little less than a half would come into the 2013 and the following would be into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally within your EMEA region do you see any noticeable changes in terms of the environment? Obviously you're in a limited a more limited set of countries right now but has spending slowed down or picked up in terms of the overall banks within those countries? No Gil I would say it's stable at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
From an SG&amp;A standpoint how much of your spend would you say is fixed versus variable kind of before executing on this realignment and restructuring? And what will that ratio look like in your mind post these efforts? Yes I mean I think Matt I mean the vast majority of that -- the SG&amp;A is fixed.
Let's just say 90% of it's fixed.
And with the cost reductions that we're making some of them are in the sales area but the disproportion in our amount in the G&amp;A area I would expect that ratio maybe to be 80 80-20.
Research Division</strong> And then as you think about realization of these savings what sort of revenue growth is implied if any on capturing say the $50 million to $75 million down to operating profit? I think as you look at the overall assumption here it's based upon very very minimal revenue growth for the company.
Such that as revenue growth comes and we're able to leverage the company and generate higher operating profit.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to help frame up this small bank dynamic I believe you disclosed what your small bank revenue was in the first quarter of '12.
Can you review that again and then maybe give us an idea as far as where that stood in the first quarter of '13? And I guess embedded in this sort of flat to moderately down EPS outlook what is your view of small bank for the full year? Let me answer the first part of this and then I'll let Michael kind of give you what's going on in the marketplace.
And without giving you the specific revenues for the regional community bank what I would say and I think it kind of speaks to the results that we're announcing here this morning is that in the first quarter of last year within our financial self-service business here in North America we were about 80% of the revenues were regional community banks.
And in the first quarter of this year it's about 40% regional and community 60% national.
So you can see how that has had a very significant impact.
You can see it at the product margin level but you can also see it at the service margin.
Regarding the outlook Mychal do you want to comment? Matt it's Mychal.
We've seen in this regional bank business kind of return to what I would say more of a historical normalized rate.
And although that's not where we want to be certainly we're encouraged by improved visibility and pipeline growth that I've seen come out in the first quarter.
I think that improved visibility and pipeline growth really kind of supports our full-year view.
Pipeline is being driven predominantly by Windows 7 and EMV-type upgrades certainly activity around branch transformation and deposit automation.
And we'll take our next question from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just real quickly can we go back through the capital allocation plans for the remainder of the year.
It sounded like you guys were planning on doing a private placement and then just thinking through the remainder of the year in terms of free cash flow expectations beyond the debt raising.
Also it kind of sounds like you're also committing to the continued dividend payout correct? Right.
So our free cash flow estimate again we're estimating to be somewhere around $100 million in free cash flow.
And again that supports the -- that $100 million is after reinvestment of $60 million of capital investments.
Regarding kind of the what we're doing on the debt side is with the private placement notes maturing again $75 million matured in March we're out raising some money to refinance if you will that $75 million as well as to give us an incremental $75 million that we will use to pay down the revolver at this point.
Both of those actions give us then the capacity that we need obviously to move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay and what's the put and take against the pension expense itself? It sounded like there was a $30 million expense there as well? Yes so that's -- there's 2 $30 millions that we talked about in the prepared remarks.
$30 million is the expense right now that we're projecting for 2013.
Again that's up from in 2008 where it was essentially 0.
So that was the reference to the $30 million is the expense that's hitting the company really about 1% on the operating margin line.
What I mentioned is that regarding funding is at the end of last year we were about 76% funded.
With the performance of the market right now we're about 81% funded.
We don't have any mandatory requirements to fund the plan this year but we are looking potentially to put in about $30 million of Diebold's stock into the plan.
We'll make that decision at this point in the third quarter this year.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So the restructuring obviously yields some opportunity to reinvest.
And it sounds like there's 3 growth areas of branch transformation electronic security and integrated services is that correct? And then can you just sort of give us some sense of what you think the growth prospects for each of those are? Yes I would just start with branch transformation.
I think as we begin to have these conversations with -- in some of the key financial institutions they have several kind of reasons that they're -- rationales as they're looking at branch transformation.
Obviously they're looking at it to facilitate their cost reduction.
But I think more importantly they're having the conversations because it gives -- it enables them a way to differentiate themselves with their customer base.
I think it's very early in the conversation to give you a specific number around the growth rate but I will tell you that we are having several conversations with large institutions and there appears to be a significant appetite to invest in our hardware as we go forward and for us at Diebold that bodes well for us because we have a proven solution in place that's being tested and being certified and so we think we have a significant opportunity there.
In terms of electronic security we believe that our growth is going to be in that 3% to 4% range.
And I think there might be some opportunity to do better than that.
But clearly I think for now that that's probably the expected range that we're going to be in.
In terms of integrated security that the growth rate would be a little bit higher than where we are with the electronic security piece.
I think those 3 strategies clearly underpin our long-term aspirations to grow in the 4% to 6% range as a total company and then when you look at the various markets each of them have different growth rates.
But in summary we believe that our strategies will enable us to achieve that 4% to 6% growth rate that we've articulated in previous meetings.
Research Division</strong> You've made some pretty significant internal changes here.
Do you feel that you've compromised any of your growth initiatives? Have there been any sort of revenue impacts from these cutbacks? No.
I would tell you I think the most encouraging thing as I said in my comments in the past as we've taken these initiatives we probably have not been as focused around making sure that we keep and maintain the capabilities within the company.
And so we have taken a very very focused look at maintaining our core capabilities and in new product development from a hardware and software standpoint.
We have taken a particular effort in making sure that we maintain the ability to satisfy our customers' requirements.
We want to make all of these changes transparent to our customers.
So if anything as we've gone through this diligence I believe that we've enhanced our ability to satisfy our customers.
And through the efforts of streamlining our new product development organization and rationalizing our processes throughout the organization that we have increased our ability to deliver speed to market as we go forward.
So I would tell you that if anything I think that we've enhanced the capabilities of the organization through these efforts.
And as I said I just want to emphasize that we're at the beginning of this process.
And as we go forward it will accelerate the pace and be able to deliver in a much more meaningful crisper way to our customers the new products and increase our speed to market while reducing our cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question many of us sort of feel that the company needs to -- I don't know if many of us.
I believe that the company needs to move up the food chain a little bit by tilting revenues towards software somewhat.
Do you concur? And to what extent should we view the selection of the CEO as a litmus test for your sort of commitment to that strategy? Well let me answer that.
This is Henry.
Let me answer that on behalf of the team.
The answer is yes we do see that there's real benefit in moving up the food chain and software is clearly one of those areas and we've talked about that several times.
And it goes through all the corporate strategies.
And so as we think about the next leader of the company that's one of the areas that we think is very important and that's certainly a big factor in our minds as we think about that.
And we'll take our next question from Jeffrey Kessler with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> Could you give an indication of what seasonally free cash flow sets out to be by quarter realizing that obviously you have capital commitments that pop up that are unusual during the course of the year such as perhaps installations in Brazil things like that.
But normally what would we be expecting in terms of the seasonality of your free cash flow? Jeff generally the first quarter is our weakest.
And again you saw that in terms of the negative $41 million that we announced here this morning again in line with the prior year free cash flow use.
What you see then typically is the second and third quarters are moderately kind of neutral if you will and then the fourth quarter is when the vast majority of our free cash flow is generated.
And that's just really a function of the way certain contracts work on the service side of the business here in North America as well as certain kind of government bank activity outside of North America.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And with regard to getting up to your in-line with industry peers particularly with your fixed cost levels.
Without going into any specifics on who your -- the industry peers are what are the improvements you need to make? And what are the types of things that your industry peers are doing with fixed cost that you need to get up to? Yes without comparing ourselves to our industry peers our focus is really looking at our fixed cost from a Diebold perspective.
And we believe that there's several additional things that we can do around looking at obviously our organizational structures looking at our channel and participation strategies in each of our regions going into each business region and doing a detailed analysis by line of the individual fixed cost structure.
There's several things that we are going to be focused on here in the future and we think there's an opportunity as I've said the activities that we've taken thus far are just really the beginning.
We believe that there's a significant opportunity to reduce our fixed cost and our operating expense as we go forward.
And we will spend the next several weeks and months working towards that end.
LLC</strong> Good.
Finally last question.
You mentioned that you were starting to begin to integrate or at least you had -- begin to have the product capability service capability to start integrating initial electronic security products with financial services.
Could you elaborate on that a little more? Yes I spoke about our SecureStat launch that we just launched down at the West Coast of the ISC the Integrated Securities' Conference.
And what that is it's a tool that enables the integration of different security applications into one agnostic kind of web-based tool.
And so it enables our partners or customers to take DVRs and fire alarms and sensing panels access technology and to be able to look at it through one web portal.
And so in our business this is really a first in the industry.
And because it's device agnostic we believe that it really provides us an opportunity to leapfrog our competitors and really provides a compelling tool that any commercial or financial institution can use to kind of control their security environment.
So we're very excited about it.
We got extremely favorable reviews at the ISC.
And we continue to have very critical conversations with customers who would like to use that solution going forward.
And we'll take our next question from Zahid Siddique with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to go back to your guidance.
So you are projecting earnings to be modestly lower than 2012? And I think June 2012 you did about $2.07 let's call it $2.05.
So if we assume $1.90 or $1.80 would be modestly lower that implies -- and if we do the math Q3 and Q4 it implies that Q3 and Q4 earnings would more than double on a year-over-year basis.
Is that a realistic assumption? Well certainly again I think the flat down moderately I mean I think you kind of dimensioned that.
But if you really look at the second half of last year you may recall that in particular in the fourth quarter we ran into a series of operational issues in the company.
And so certainly as we sit here and we kind of think about the second half of this year we're not anticipating kind of a repeat of those.
So again that provides a favorable year-over-year comparison.
Then you look at clearly the cost take-outs that we've announced here this morning.
Those are going on as we speak.
Those have a second half benefit.
In our prepared remarks we talked about what's going on with the national accounts.
Mychal spoke to again the momentum of -- albeit it's off of a low base but the momentum that we have in the regional space coupled with the normal backend loading of the Latin America business including Brazil which we've spoken to.
Those all give us the basis for a stronger second half.
Inc.</strong> To the degree that earnings could actually double roughly or more than double in the second half? Yes certainly.
Again those factors that I just listed serve as the basis for the full year guidance.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just last question I think if I heard you correctly you said that the services margins would be better than 2012.
Is that what I heard? And what were the margins again in 2012? For 2012 our service margin was 25.7%.
And again you will recall that last year those margins fell off in the second half of the year due to some operational issues as well as due to the investments that we were making to stand up Toronto-Dominion.
And therefore again we're expecting with the cost actions coupled with the absence of some of the issues we had in 2012 to create a favorable year-over-year variance.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First your pension expense is $30 million a year.
If you were to prefund this $30 million with your stock what would the EPS accretion be Brad? Yes that would be roughly probably $0.03 or $0.04 in very rough terms.
But we're not anticipating that that funding's going to take place until the third quarter of this year so you'd only get a partial year effect this year.
Research Division</strong> And then I want to make sure I understand.
So your electronic security orders sounded like they were up 40% but it sounds like you're looking for 3% revenue growth.
Did I misunderstand something? Matt that's for total security.
And physical security is still down year-over-year.
And then we've exited some segments as well related -- you saw we sold off our government security business and some other segments.
We're not talking about orders we're just talking about electronic security.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Brad I think this is my last question.
On your one -- your fourth quarter conference call I believe you said the earning seasonality this year would be 20% 25% first half the remainder back half.
Is that still true in terms of how you're kind of modeling things out? Yes I mean I think given the order activity in Brazil and where the margins came in on the Brazil order I think the backend loading has increased from that expectation that we gave at the fourth quarter call.
But again what we've done since that fourth quarter call is given some of the issues with Brazil as we have intervened on the cost actions in order to support the full year guidance that we're reaffirming here this morning.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Kristoff at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Camille.
And thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
As always if you have follow-up questions please feel free to contact me directly or Jamie Finefrock.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Diebold Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Vice President and Chief Communications Officer John Kristoff.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Diebold's second quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO; Brad Richardson Executive Vice President and CFO; and George Mayes Executive Vice President and COO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Andy Brad and George will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as with past calls it's important to note that we have restructuring charges nonroutine and amortization expenses nonroutine income deferred tax expense on foreign cash repatriation and a tax valuation allowance in our financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will be focused on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods excludes discontinued operations.
Also as part of our previously disclosed material weakness remediation related to indirect tax incentives we continue to assess our indirect tax compliance in Brazil and are reviewing the accounting treatment of certain transactions.
It is possible that financial results for certain periods may need to be further revised or restated as a result of this work which may potentially delay the filing of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2013.
Therefore financial results discussed today should be treated as preliminary and subject to change.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I'll turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks John and thank you to all of you for joining the call today.
Clearly the results we announced today are not in line with our capabilities and potential as a company.
In a moment we will review our performance during the past quarter level set our financial outlook and the rationale behind our guidance and discuss the actions we're taking to address our issues.
First I think it's important for me to share my thoughts on Diebold after my first several weeks here to lend some perspective on our challenges and opportunities.
Let me start with initial assessment of the company.
There are multiple unique operating models at Diebold and I don't know any other way to learn the business than to get underneath every piece of the operation.
Along those lines I've already visited 3 of our 5 geographic divisions which account approximately for 70% of our employees and 75% of our revenues.
I'm planning to visit our operations in Asia Pac and EMEA over the next few weeks.
Also I had the pleasure of meeting with approximately 30 of our top customers during the past 2 months I came away from those meetings knowing that we have a strong base of customers who are looking for us to help them solve a lot of their business challenges.
There's a great deal of value here.
We have many strong assets especially in our service portfolio and have a very recognized brand in the market.
While we have a lot of work ahead of us my overall assessment is that we have a great turnaround opportunity here.
Our immediate focus will be on the following fronts.
As a company we will get crisper regarding our decisions actions and execution.
To help facilitate our execution we're in the process of closing out some of our pending legal compliance issues which have created a burden on our management's team focus.
Brad will discuss our efforts there in more detail later in the call.
The company has started to pay closer attention to reducing its cost structure and to become more variable in nature and better aligned with industry peers.
We will continue down this path and accelerate our cost reductions.
We will sharpen our focus on cash generation.
We have experienced a negative free cash flow trend over the last 3 years.
Brad and George will discuss in more details our plans to improve cash management within the operations.
We will recruit top-tier talent and empower our employees to drive change.
To lead our transformation and drive our turnaround agenda we recently recruited Stefan Merz from HP where he served as Vice President of Sales Strategy and Operations for the Enterprise group.
We will upgrade our service operations from a service delivery to a service business approach leveraging core capabilities to better capture the value and grow the services that we are providing.
We will implement a major overhaul to our IT infrastructure to lay the foundation for solid growth and performance.
This requires heavy lifting.
The journey will last at least 2 to 3 years and will put additional pressure on our near-term P&amp;L.
However it will enable us to drive continuous productivity enhancement and position us for long-term growth.
Turning to growth a key area of focus.
During my initial days here I've seen a lot of exciting opportunities that give me confidence in Diebold's growth potential going forward.
In particular electronic security continues to be a part of our growth story moving forward as we continue to secure large wins in both the financial and commercial spaces based on high margin and recurring services.
Also our recent acquisition in Brazil GAS is a very encouraging component of our future growth strategy.
Four of the 5 major Brazilian banks already use our anti-fraud security solution which protects nearly 70% of all Internet banking transactions in Brazil.
The next step for us is to better leverage these pockets of innovation in other markets around the world.
This holds especially true in the managed services space where we will go to an invent once reuse often philosophy.
Moving onto guidance.
You'll note that we have significantly reduced our outlook for 2013.
Our prior forecast was too back-end loaded and dependent on major tenders at Brazil as well as an uptick in demand in the U.S.
regional bank space.
We have taken these 2 prior assumptions out of our current guidance.
While our order book is encouraging many of these orders will not revenue until very late this year and might fall into 2014.
Brad will be walking you through more details regarding the rationale behind our outlook later in the call.
In the last earnings call management highlighted $100 million to $150 million cost savings plan to be completed by the end of 2015.
I would like to reinforce my commitment to this plan.
Since that time we have already identified $150 million in targeted savings and we're accelerating the timing and underpinning of our transformation initiative moving forward.
George will give you more details on this front later.
As part of our cost savings actions we will freeze the company's U.S.
pension plan and offer early retirement to over 1 200 U.S.
employees over the next several weeks.
Brad will address how these actions will impact our P&amp;L balance sheet and capital allocation strategy during his comments.
Moving forward I believe in setting clear objectives implementing tactical plans and holding people accountable against stated goals as a fundamental belief in balancing cost discipline against focused investment in growth.
George Brad and the rest of the leadership team are in complete alignment in this regard.
In his new role as COO George has done a great job in laying the groundwork for operational excellence.
Together along with Brad and the rest of the leadership team we're committed to instilling an execution-oriented culture within Diebold.
In conclusion I believe our brand is strong and we have a deep customer relationship on which to build.
However to get more competitive in the marketplace and back on a winning trajectory we'll focus on achieving an appropriate cost structure and investing in the systems and processes necessary to support the sustainable growth.
This is where the majority of our time and effort will be focused in the near term.
Getting costs out of the company will also improve our cash position and enable us to invest in the future of the company.
It is important for us to act decisively and address the major issues that have been distracting us and get on the business of growing Diebold.
This will help us to reestablish a winning spirit within the company.
Much of our success lies in our own hands.
We have a lot of work in front of us but I feel deeply confident about our future.
With that I'll turn the call over to Brad.
Thank you very much Andy and good morning everyone.
First I would like to update you on our Brazil tax assessment situation.
Second I will walk you through our second quarter financials on Slide 14 through 24 in the supporting presentation.
Third I will discuss our balance sheet strategy and the impact of the additional cost savings initiatives on our P&amp;L and balance sheet.
Finally I will provide additional rationale behind our revenue guidance for 2013 and an update on our free cash flow outlook.
As previously disclosed one of our Brazilian subsidiaries was notified of a tax assessment of $133 million regarding certain Brazil federal indirect taxes for 2008 and 2009.
We continue to evaluate the impact of this potential tax uncertainty and continue to believe that we have a strong legal and technical position in that matter.
As a result of the assessment in our previously disclosed related material weakness we undertook a review of our overall compliance with Brazil indirect tax regulation.
As part of that review during the second quarter of 2013 we identified adjustments related to the 2008 to 2012 prior-year periods for federal indirect tax incentives in the amount of approximately $23 million impacting product cost of sales.
These adjustments are not related to the original tax assessment and our prior period financial statement will be revised prospectively.
As a result of revising our second quarter 2012 financials for this adjustment there was an increase in previously reported costs of goods sold of $1.6 million and a decrease of previously reported net income and diluted earnings per share of $1.2 million and $0.02 per share respectively.
While we are comfortable with our self assessment of the federal indirect tax incentives we continue to assess our exposure for state indirect tax compliance.
We have a team on the ground in Brazil working this issue.
As a result of this review it is possible that financial results for certain periods may need to be a further revised or restated.
Therefore financial results we are sharing today should be treated as preliminary and subject to change.
This review of the state indirect tax matter may also potentially delay our 10-Q filing.
Turning to our financial slide on Slide 14.
Total revenue decreased approximately 5%.
Financial self-service revenue decreased approximately 6% while total security revenue increased approximately 4% as our organic growth strategy for electronic security continues to take hold.
On Slide 17 the total gross margin was 22.9% a decrease of 1.8 percentage points.
Product gross margin declined 2.6 percentage points to 20.9%.
Product margins were down in the second quarter as a result of lower overall volume and continued strength in the National Bank segment in North America which carries lower product margins.
Service -- the service gross margin was 24.3% a decrease of 1.6 percentage points from the second quarter of 2012 but increased sequentially by 1.2 percentage points from the first quarter of 2013.
Our service gross margin decline is mainly attributable to 2 specific contracts in Brazil.
We have taken the appropriate commercial steps to address this issue.
Operating expense on Slide 18 was relatively flat as a percentage of revenue but decreased on a dollar basis by approximately $6 million as we realize benefits from our cost savings initiatives and lower selling expense.
On Slide 19 the operating margin declined by 1.9 percentage points to 4.3% in the quarter.
Let me spend a little time on Slide 20.
You can see our EPS on a GAAP basis was $1.55 loss during the quarter including restructuring charges of $0.08 per share.
Nonroutine and amortization expenses of $0.55 per share included several items.
First while we do not have a final settlement at this point related to our FCPA matter we made significant progress during the quarter and have reached an agreement in principal with the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Under the terms of the proposed settlement among other things we would make a $48 million payment to United States government for disgorgement penalties and prejudgment interest.
Further we would have an independent compliance monitor for a minimum period of 18 months.
Therefore given the proposed settlement terms we have increased our accrual by $28 million.
We do not expect at this point the final settlement to vary materially from our current total accrual of $48 million.
Second also included in the nonroutine and amortization expenses we have reached a tentative agreement to settle the derivative class action lawsuit related to our 2008 financial restatement for $30 million of which $12.5 million is covered under existing insurance policies.
The lawsuit has been ongoing since the second quarter of 2010 and we are pleased to bring this legacy issue to a close.
Third we have begun the process to repatriate approximately $258 million of cash from multiple international jurisdictions to the United States in order to pay down our domestic debt and enhance our liquidity in the United States.
Further we have begun to shift debt to the international jurisdictions to better align our debt with our cash generation activities.
The associated tax impact is approximately $43 million or $0.67 in the quarter.
This reflects incremental taxes being provided for earnings that were previously taxed at a country statutory rate lower than the U.S.
rate.
Actual cash taxes associated with the repatriation is approximately $20 million.
A combination of these factors brings us to a loss of $0.25 per share on a non-GAAP basis.
Included in this loss is $0.51 per share related to a valuation allowance reserve established against net operating loss carryforward assets reflecting the unfavorable financial performance of our Brazil manufacturing operations.
Excluding this non-GAAP earnings was $0.26 per share.
Moving onto free cash flow on Slide 21 the free cash used during the quarter increased $24 million year-over-year.
Our days sales outstanding increased 11 days as a result of a mix shift in the United States from regional to national accounts.
To accelerate and improve our cash generation activity we have significantly increased our efforts internally to bring more cash discipline to the operations.
On Slide 22 net debt for the period was $156 million a $55 million increase from the prior-year period.
There were a number of developments during the quarter to strengthen the overall liquidity and financial capacity of the company.
First as previously mentioned we plan to repatriate approximately $250 million of cash back to the United States.
This repatriation reflects capping international cash and placing approximately $100 million of debt in foreign jurisdictions.
Second as Andy mentioned we are freezing our defined benefit pension plan for U.S.-based employees.
The freeze coupled with higher discount rates is expected to save approximately $30 million per year and will reduce the underfunded status from approximately $150 million at end of 2012 to about $50 million at the end of this year.
As a result of the reduced underfunded status we have no plans to make voluntary contributions to the pension plan for the foreseeable future.
Finally the company is offering a voluntary early retirement program for U.S.
employees.
Until we know how many people take advantage of the program we cannot provide a specific savings figure.
However based on an industry average take rate of between 25% and 45% we anticipate a second half 2013 charge of between $40 million and $70 million covering pension and severance-related expenses.
This will result in approximately $15 million to $25 million in ongoing savings on a go forward basis.
The combination of the pension actions and the early-retirement program provides a strong underpinning for the $150 million in cost savings.
Now turning to Slide 24.
In regards to our guidance for 2013 we expect full year revenue to be down 5% to 7% and earnings per share to be in the range of $0.79 to $0.89 per share on a non-GAAP basis including a $0.51 tax valuation allowance charge.
Excluding the tax valuation allowance this leads to a non-GAAP earnings of between $1.30 and $1.40.
We expect earnings to progressively improve as we move through the rest of 2013.
However this earnings growth is less than previously expected as we have adjusted our outlook related to 2 prior assumptions outlined in previous calls.
First in regards to the Brazil auctions while we have won a couple of the large tenders as anticipated the timing was later than expected and other opportunities have pushed out.
Therefore we are taking the revenue and earnings associated with these tenders out of our guidance for 2013.
Second the U.S.
regional bank business is not expected to grow at the level previously anticipated.
Orders remain stable.
However there is not been an uptick in demand as regional banks continue to remain cautious on their technology spend initiatives.
In regard to our free cash flow outlook for 2013 previously we outlined free cash flow guidance of $100 million plus.
As a result of our reduced earnings outlook coupled with the expected class action lawsuit and FCPA settlement and the cash taxes associated with our cash repatriation we expect free cash use of approximately $25 million for the full year.
This is subject to the variability and the timing of large settlement payments.
We are also making internal efforts to help improve our cash generation to mitigate the impact of the approximate $100 million in onetime items that I have discussed.
In closing we have a lot of work in front of us.
We are working aggressively to resolve our Brazil tax matter and remediate the underlying material weakness.
The efforts are ongoing and the work is extremely complex.
We have moved aggressively to bring our other compliance and legal issue towards closure so we can better focus our time and attention in our turnaround efforts.
We are also working to restructure the balance sheet improve free cash flow and address our underlying cost structure all of which are critical to position the company for growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to George.
Thanks Brad.
First I'll briefly recap our performance during the quarter on a region-by-region basis.
Then I'll provide an update on our cost reduction and multiyear realignment initiatives we introduced in April.
Beginning with the highlights in North America total revenue for the quarter was down approximately 8% driven mostly by lower product volume associated with ADA and PCI upgrade activity in the prior-year period.
The U.S.
regional banks continue to remain cautious under technology spend initiatives.
Total orders were down in the low-double digits driven by the financial self-service business.
In contrast we continue to see spending in the U.S.
national account space in regards to technology such as deposit automation and electronic security systems and solutions.
We also made progress on several key a business initiatives this quarter including our most recent partnership with Paydiant a mobile wallet provider to enable the cardless Mobile Cash Access solution.
We are currently in the process of evaluating global applicability and identifying the right network providers and mobile wallet partners in other regions.
The Mobile Cash Access solution as well as other recently launched emerging technology such as our Concierge Video represent critical elements in the company's branch transformation growth strategy.
Moving to our electronic security business.
Orders were up more than 50% in North America attributable mostly to activity in the National Bank business.
We continue to focus on financial commercial and national accounts and enterprise customer markets.
In addition we continue to increase our mix of recurring monthly revenue producing higher margin and increasing enterprise value over time.
Turning to Latin America and Brazil.
Total revenue decreased 17% during the quarter driven by lower volume from elections and financial self-service revenue in Brazil.
However total orders were up more than 20% in the region driven mostly by financial self-service and security in Brazil and other key countries.
And as Andy mentioned GAS our recently logical security acquisition in Brazil has experienced tremendous growth.
We see many opportunities to further expand upon these solutions and service capabilities in geographies outside of Brazil.
As Brad mentioned our margins in this region are under pressure.
As a result we are taking actions to make our manufactured footprint more variable.
We are realigning our services support organization to increase span of [ph] control and drive technician efficiencies.
We are also taking actions to outsource non-core operations.
In the Asia Pacific region total revenue for the quarter increased 23%.
We experienced order growth in the low-double digits driven mainly by China as well as Indonesia.
Recently we secured a win with Bank Mandiri the largest retail bank in Indonesia to add more than 1 400 ATMs to their existing fleet.
Demand remains strong in Asia Pacific and we expect moderate topline growth for the year in the region.
In EMEA total revenue for the quarter was relatively flat year-over-year.
Total orders were up nearly 30% driven by wins in key growth markets particularly Turkey and Saudi Arabia.
In addition we realized higher volume in mature markets such as Belgium and Italy.
We recently secured a major win with Unicredit Bank in Italy consisting of cash dispensers as well as our most recent line of ATMs the Flex Performance Series.
This reinforces our reputation with strategic customers and demonstrates the value proposition of this new series of advanced-function ATMs.
In terms of our multiyear realignment plan we have been moving quickly and making good progress with our multiyear actions.
Previously we talked about a savings target of $100 million to $150 million to be completed by the end of 2014 with total savings fully realized by the end of 2015.
In the meantime we have already identified $150 million of targeted savings and we are accelerating the timing and underpinning of our cost-saving efforts moving forward.
The global setup we implemented at the beginning of the year is delivering improved accountability operational rigor and accelerated cost reduction activities.
Most importantly we are stabilizing and prepared to transform our business.
We continue to look for new ways to accelerate our existing projects build additional capacity to invest in the business and to identify new initiatives to drive growth.
We are also focused on driving working capital improvements.
One key area is inventory.
During the quarter you will notice we have increase our inventory turns.
We have initiated a number of projects geared towards significantly reducing manufacturing inventory as well as finished goods.
In conclusion we are making progress and remain committed to the expectations we have set forth.
Andy has hit the ground running and has quickly provided us with some additional valuable insights which are accelerating our operational improvement efforts.
I remain confident in our ability along with Brad and the rest of the leadership team to accelerate an effective transformation that will deliver value for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call back to John for some closing remarks.
Thanks George.
One additional sidenote.
We will be communicating more details on our turnaround plan during our planned Investor Day in November.
We will communicate specific details regarding that event at a future date.
And with that I'd like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Would you mind for the 2013 guidance to give us some of the piece parts for growth by business ATM security and voting? And would the improvements in the back half of the year for margins are they going to come from more from gross margin or operating margin? It's Brad.
That's a very very good question.
As we look at the overall guidance for the full year minus 5% to minus 7% certainly we're expecting that the security side of the business again as George and Andy spoke to we're expecting a positive growth in the neighborhood of 1% to 3% there.
You asked also about our election systems and lottery and just again where those businesses are.
From a timing standpoint they're actually going to be down year-over-year call it a percentage and point -- percentage point impact on overall revenue performance.
And so that would give the financial self-service business again for the reasons that we've articulated in particular kind of here in North America down 6% to 7%.
So those are the pieces that actually make up the overall revenue performance expectation of minus 5% to minus 7%.
Your point in terms of really what drives the overall back half earnings performance of the company certainly as you've seen historically looking at the various geographic regions our EMEA business is slightly back-end loaded but relatively stable.
Our Asia Pacific business again has been a relatively stable even contributor throughout the year.
But we do see typically our Latin America business both including -- or in our Latin America business is typically back-end loaded and we have the order activity in place to support that.
Our Brazil business again is back-end loaded this year just given the timing of some of the tenders.
And we've only put in our forecast what we have booked if you will at this point.
So really what's driving the second half performance is Latin America and Brazil and a slight uptick in the performance of our North American business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of your dividend are you given the cash needs this year? Are you contemplating reducing the dividend or are you comfortable continuing to -- your 60-year streak and increasing it how long if you needed to borrow in order to do that would you be willing to do that for a year or 2 years in order to continue that streak? Yes let me -- I'll comment here and I'm going to let Andy also kind of give his overall philosophy on that.
What I would say is clearly our dividend policy if you will is evaluated -- and our performance is evaluated over a multiyear period.
Certainly if you look at this year there is a significant drain on our cash resources for the onetime items.
But if you back those out the overall underlying cash flow free cash flow the company is somewhere between $70 million and $100 million.
So still positive and sufficient to cover our dividend.
We have also though and I'm very pleased that we've taken action to restructure the balance sheet which strengthens our liquidity.
We've also taken the actions on our pension plan which while difficult for our associates again provides us with much a much stronger balance sheet to support the company as we maneuver through a period where again we've got the regulatory draws but we also have the restructuring that we're doing.
All of these are designed to take cost out of the company and return the company to growth.
And that's what's ultimately going to allow us to sustain the dividend is by making meaningful improvement in our cost structure in order to improve our margins improve our cash generation as we go forward and put us in a position where we have the cash to pay the dividend and reinvest for growth.
Let me just add one thing to that.
We realize the importance of the dividend for investor base [ph] and also believe that we want to make sure that our investors participate in the success that the company has going forward.
Brad just pointed out all the onetime effect that we -- that put pressure on our P&amp;L this year.
But the midterm perspective for the company we're optimistic.
We believe the actions we are taking will increase our free cash flow going forward and should underpin our dividend policy going forward as well.
Matt Summerville KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> With a $150 million plus you're talking about and have identified in terms of cost savings can you guys walk through kind of the cadence of how that should roll through your P&amp;L? Meaning how much you should expect to realize in '13 '14 and '15? And then Andy is the game plan still to reinvest about half of that and let the other half drop to the bottom line? So Matt as we had talked about earlier we anticipate about $60 million of that rolling through our P&amp;L and you can see that reflected on our second half performance.
As we...
$60 million in this year George.
This year 2013.
As we develop our perspective for 2014 we would have a view that we would have in the range between another $40 million to $50 million run through the P&amp;L under 2014 as we accelerate our projects going forward with the total $150 million being -- coming to fruition in 2015 as we had talked about earlier.
Research Division</strong> And then the second part of that question Andy about half of it dropped at the bottom line.
Yes that's still our objective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just -- in terms of Brad you mentioned some Brazilian service contracts can you sort of let [ph] out that issue what's going on there? Yes there were 2 specific contracts that we have in Brazil that were relatively new contracts to the company.
The performance under those contracts certainly in terms of the number of calls that it take to -- taken to service those contracts has been above our expectations.
So we have intervened at this juncture to work with our end customers to adjust those contracts from a commercial standpoint and put that behind us here in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
In terms of small bank spend in the U.S.
I guess how are you guys thinking about an uptick there heading into '14 around the time that Microsoft ends support for XP.
Do you do think it will be material? And do you think that will result in more proactive discussions on deposit automation and/or branch transformation among that customer base? Matt let me start.
The good news is the discussions are starting.
So yes we see people contemplating investment going forward.
The trigger point where these discussions translate into additional orders that's -- we're still waiting for that to kick in.
The Windows upgrade provides somewhat of an opportunity.
But then again we also need to see how actively the customer base is going to embrace it and how rapidly they're going to upgrade their systems.
Matt let me just kind of add to that point in terms of just the expectations as we go into 2014.
You may recall that again as we went through 2012 the order activity in the regional bank space came down throughout the year following the ADA PCI compliance-related spending and we hit bottom in the third quarter of 2012.
We saw an uptick in the fourth quarter of last year which again that was the basis for our plan and the basis for our initial thinking in terms of how the company would perform.
But since the fourth quarter we've seen in the first 2 quarters of this year the regional bank spend going back to kind of that third quarter last year of spend.
So it's been flat but at a flat relatively low level.
And as we've built out our expectations for the rest of the year we've assumed that that flat trend will continue.
Paul Coster JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I've got 3 quick ones.
Actually on this point of the orders that you've seen I kind of got the impression early on in the narratives that the orders were picking up but you wouldn't see the revenue benefit until next year.
Now I'm not sure what I heard on the order side.
And even if it is picking up why is there such a lag between the orders and the revenue? Well specifically I mean what you heard and I was commenting to Matt's question on the regional bank space.
But we have orders that have clearly picked up in Latin America Brazil.
Our order activity is good in Asia Pacific and also in the EMEA region.
And those all are providing again the backlog if you will in order to generate the sequential improvement that we see here in the third and fourth quarters.
But I think it's fair to say that again in the North America business in particular on the regional banks space that activity is again relatively flat.
Research Division</strong> And why is there a lag though in the international business? I'm supposed to reason [ph] but I'm just curious that's all.
Well the lag typically is a 6-month lag but it can turn out even longer.
For example in some of our activity in India where there's a very very long cycles from the time that we get our orders to the time that we install we got very very large orders and then they revenue over multi-quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question has to with Andy's statement about turning the service delivery into service business.
What does that mean? Let me start with we're doing a lot of things in our services business for our customers but we're kind of doing them just in a fulfillment mode.
We got to go through on saying what is the type of service that we need to do to support our products and our solutions.
What is the on-top service that we're providing.
What's the value of those on-top solutions? And are we getting paid by our customers for the service that we do provide? And if we were to commit to these on-top servicers and if we were to commit to better SLAs what would be a premium that a customer would be willing to pay us? And right now we're doing a more case-by-case approach to it.
We're not having that as standardized and as transparent as one would like to do this.
And we believe given the high marks that we get for our service business there's actually upside as we can continue to upsell our service offering and then get reimbursed from our customers for doing so.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
And then so this brings me to the third question which is Andy pretty wisely suggested this is going to take 2 to 3 years to turn this business around.
What are we actually talking about as the end state here? Is it just to get us back on profitable growth? Or is it also a new strategic kind of direction? This is day 45 on the job.
So do me the favor give me my 100 days to work through the strategy.
We're taking a crawl walk run approach.
We're starting with the absolute no regret must-do things right now.
We will pick up speed as we go through the second half of this year and into next year and then we'll be a more aggressive going into the out year.
And that's why John has already mentioned that we would like to do an Investors Call with all of you and an Analyst Meeting in November because by then we should be in a position to better articulate the strategies the building blocks the timeline and the expectations that you could have for our the company.
Jeff Kessler Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> First question is with regard to the $150 million of savings you've talked about approximately 50% of it falling to the bottom line over a period of time over the years as you specified.
But could you talk about what is it going to -- what are the costs you've -- what are the costs involved in getting to those savings that will also hit the P&amp;L? You've enunciated some of them with regard to the pension plan but what other costs should we expect to see hit against that $150 million as we progress through the several year period? I think if you look at what we've identified for the pension plan that there's an impact on the pension plan somewhere and you can see this in the overall full year guidance of between $0.40 to $0.72 a share and that clearly is dependent upon the participation rate which we should have a better handle on in the second half of this year.
And then clearly our ongoing restructuring we expect somewhere in the neighborhood of $0.30 to $0.35 or to be precise $0.27 to $0.35 which you see in our guidance.
So the heavy lifting if you will in terms of the restructuring the pension and the associated costs there are being incurred here in 2013 and we should see again the flow-through and the benefit of those.
As George I mentioned some coming through already but a big impact as we move forward beyond 2013.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One question on your security industry.
It looks like electronic security orders were up significantly.
In that -- in the backlog that you were building number one what is the composition? Is this 90% financial? Or if it is not what other verticals are beginning to show up as wins for you in electronic security? And number two what -- is the recurring revenue composition of that backlog increasing as a percentage of the total wins as well? In other words I'm wanting to see whether or not your recurring revenue percentage when we talk 2 or 3 years from now is going to be higher in electronic security than it is now? Yes so I think the questions that you raise are really a point of excitement for us.
As we look at our book we see that the split between the financials and the commercials accounts are about 50/50.
And so we do see growth in the commercial space which is one of our key strategy in terms of diversifying our electronic security business.
Additionally in terms of recurring monthly revenue we see that growing about 10% year-over-year.
And so as you know we just launched the initiative and have been investing pretty heavily in terms of driving our organic growth.
And so in the future we believe that you'll see the kind of incremental recurring monthly revenue that we've been talking about.
LLC</strong> Okay.
You've talked -- and actually you were just asked by I guess Paul Coster with regard to how -- what is the comp -- what do you look for in terms of getting paid for your service on the financial side.
I'm going to ask the same question on the security side.
A couple of your competitors have become very very very focused on even walking away from business that doesn't pay correctly in terms of not just -- in terms of the service side with regard to security.
Are you also moving in that direction to try to not just get the recurring revenue up to get your margins up but to make sure that your margins on the installation -- on the product and installation business make sense for you.
Yes our view is as we look at our ES [ph] portfolio we want to be strategic and disciplined in terms of taking business.
We want to make sure that the margins are enhancing or accretive to our current margin book.
And so we have walked away from some enterprise deals that were not accretive and we'll continue to be disciplined as we go forward as we grow our business.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Glenn Mattson with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> In the past you talked about making kind of -- making acquisitions in the near term or medium term here but would you say that's been put off for a little while here? Two answers.
Number 1 I go back to my crawl walk run approach.
First we got to get the rigor the execution and the metrics around our business so that we feel comfortable that we can grow our business organically.
Second having said that of course we keep our eyes open for opportunities that cross our desks.
And like every tech company we're continuously evaluating scenarios that could be accretive to our overall business case.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe a little more color on Europe.
I mean I guess Italy ticked up and what other comments can you make about the rest of the continent? In terms of -- the good news about EMEA I think as you know 2 years ago we were struggling to get traction in that business.
Through our recent cost reduction efforts we've been able to stabilize that business and return to profitability.
One of the bright spots that we see is our business in Turkey where we continue to leverage our Altus acquisition in terms of service and we continue to get wind in the financial regions.
And so overall I think that's a big success for us.
Justin Hughes Philadelphia Financial.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to talk about sort of the cash outlays because you've taken a number of charges but you haven't actually made the payments yet.
So if I can add up the $48 million to DOJ the class-action settlement the payments on your early retirement plan plus your repatriating capital from overseas I get to about $150 million of cash that will be going out looks like in the next kind of 12 months of onetime nature.
Are there any cash requirements on your debt covenants? And can you just refresh us on what your debt covenants are based upon? Yes I can do that.
And just I think where your math went a little awry there and I'll just recap it for you.
Certainly the FCPA the $48 million again there's a question of timing.
But assuming that that goes out the door this year to settle that matter $17.5 million for the derivative class-action lawsuit we have the cash taxes of roughly $20 million for repatriation and probably another $10 million or so in terms of cash restructuring cost.
Those add up to $100 million.
The pension that you referred to actually that comes out of the overall trust.
Those assets and those decisions are secured by the assets in the pension plan which again I'll reiterate the underfunded status of that plan at the end of 2012 was $150 million underfunded and with the actions we've taken in terms of freezing will bring that status down to about $50 million underfunded.
But those -- again that $40 million that you heard that you quoted with those funds would come out of the trust the pension assets.
And so it will not impact the free cash flow of the corporation.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Is there a cash requirement on your debt covenants or what are your debt covenants based on? So really our debt covenants are based upon 2 factors.
EBIT-to-net interest and when I say net interest meaning we take into account obviously the interest expense but we also credit against that the interest income.
And if just you just look at our disclosures on Page 5 of the earnings release you can see that the interest expense and the interest income about offset each other.
So the EBIT-to-net interest is not an issue again because of the net interest is fairly offsetting interest expense versus interest income.
The other covenants that we have is a net debt to capital which again we're allowed to credit the cash against our debt.
And so that has to be less than 50% and you can see from again our disclosures on the slide is that we're well in compliance of that covenant.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my other question is I believe you've said in the prepared remarks that you're using a higher discount rate on your pension liability.
What did you change that discount rate from and to? Yes.
I mean we'll have to get you the exact discount rates.
But certainly from the time that we ended the year to where we are today I mean there has been roughly about 100 basis points increase in interest rates since that time.
We'll get you the exact rate that we've used.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Kristoff I'll turn things over to you for closing remarks.
Thank you and thank you for joining us this morning.
As always if you have any additional follow-up questions please feel free to contact myself or Jamie Finefrock directly.
Thanks again and have a good day.
And that concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Diebold Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jake.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Diebold's third quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Chapman Vice President Global Finance who will assume the role of interim Principal Financial Officer on November 6.
Also in the room with us today is George Mayes Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and he'll be available for questions and the end of the opening comments.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Andy and Chris will be walking you through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our result as with past calls it's important to note that we are excluding certain restructuring charges nonroutine income and expenses and impairment charges from our non-GAAP financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior period excludes discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
Now with opening remarks I'll turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today as we discuss our third quarter results.
Our ongoing business improvement and cost reduction efforts started to show during the quarter.
We continue to execute on our strategy to globalize and transform our operations to better leverage our scale which has resulted in an improvement in our service gross margin.
However as we said in the past we will reinvest approximately half of our savings back into the company and we have yet to fully ramp-up investments in our transformation initiatives.
You saw the news that our CFO Brad Richardson provided notice that he will resign from the company.
We have already engaged Korn/Ferry to begin the search process for our new CFO.
We are confident in Chris Chapman's ability to perform the duties and responsibilities in the interim as the company's Principal Financial Officer.
I've asked Chris to join the call today.
Now let's focus on the key takeaways from the quarter.
First we are encouraged by our global order activity which grew in the mid-teens during the quarter.
Also our revenue performance outside of North America is positive.
While these are promising steps toward achieving sustainable top line growth we still have a long way to go.
Total revenue is down year-over-year and sequentially.
This is largely due to challenges in the North American market particularly in the financial self-service business which adversely impacted our revenue and orders during the quarter.
Second our non-GAAP earnings in the quarter benefited from a lower tax rate as well as foreign exchange gain.
Third we're beginning to see bottom line results from our cost-saving initiatives instituted earlier in the year.
Moving forward however we expect our net cost savings to vary as we ramp-up investments in our transformation initiatives.
The nature of the investments will not follow a linear trend.
Fourth and finally I'm pleased that we were able to finalize our SEPA settlement.
On the one hand I'm encouraged by the progress in our underlying operational performance during the quarter.
On the other hand we still have an enormous amount of work in front of us to get the company back on the right trajectory.
We will be covering the details of our transformation strategy and outlook for 2014 at our Investor Day in less than 2 weeks.
As such we will focus our commentary today around the third quarter and our expectations for the remainder of the year.
In the past several months I have visited every major geography around the world met with most of our top customers and about 80% of our workforce.
One theme that emerged consistently our customers recognize the value of our solutions and services and want to do more business with us as our industry evolves.
Now I would like to briefly walk you through our business performance by region during the quarter.
In North America revenue decreased 10% largely driven by the financial service business.
Orders declined in the low-double digit of a tough comparison from the prior year.
Although the North America bank market has remained tepid following the ADA/PCI upgrade cycle we see opportunity building in our sales pipeline related to branch transformation outsourcing and software.
We see increased interest in advanced video and transaction technology within the branch.
For example we now have 20 different customers lined up to pilot our in-lobby terminal in North America.
Additionally we recently began the industry's first ATM conversions to Windows 7 and EMV for U.S.
Bank one of the largest ATM deployers in North America.
This upgrade will place U.S.
Bank at the forefront of meeting new PCI security requirements and prepare it for the pending adoption of EMV technology.
Our revenue and order book outside of North America is encouraging.
In Latin America revenue increased 4% or 12% on a constant currency basis driven by growth in both financial self-service and security.
Orders nearly doubled during the quarter due to a large ATM tender in Brazil.
Excluding this tender orders grew about 20%.
We continue to see solid growth in our core financial self-service business in the region.
In addition growth continues in our logical security subsidiary GAS Tecnologia as well as outsourcing in Electronic Security.
In EMEA revenue improved 16% while orders increased about 30%.
Our global offerings and branch transformation are acting as a catalyst to increase share within global accounts.
This approach is beginning to take hold in several key markets including the U.K.
and Spain.
For example we recently captured a strategic competitive win with Bankia in Spain.
We will provide turnkey services across the bank's entire multi-vendor network of ATM as part of its branch transformation strategy.
Also we recently won a contract to provide BBVA with advanced branch transformation terminals.
While we've done business with BBVA in Latin America this represents our first sale to this customer in Europe.
In Asia Pac revenue increased 17% orders grew nearly 20% as strong demand continues throughout the region most notably in India.
The growth in India continues to be driven by increased ATM deployments as a result of the government mandate to drive financial inclusion throughout the country.
Demand in China also remains healthy as we rollout Dell service to several Tier 1 and Tier 3 banks.
In our Electronic Security business we experienced good growth and orders during the quarter including North America where orders grew in the mid-single digits.
We are now seeing tougher comparisons as we begin to anniversary periods of high growth that started in the second half of 2012.
In addition to capturing significant wins in our existing financial commercial and retail customer base we added 10 new logos for a variety of services that will help generate growth in recurring monthly revenue.
While this is encouraging it is important to remember this business contains a longer sales cycle and deals are awarded on a total contract value basis with revenue recognized over multiple years.
From an operational perspective we are making steady progress on our transformation initiative.
The Voluntary Early Retirement Program we announced in August is attracting a number of participants.
The deadline to make a decision is tomorrow.
We anticipate the take rate will be in excess of 25%.
The purpose of the work is not slowly to save costs but also provide an opportunity to attract new talents to Diebold.
We will have more clarity on this initiative shortly and we will provide more information regarding our transformation plan during our Investor Day on November 12.
We feel comfortable about our next steps and are eager to share our thoughts.
Moving on to our guidance for the remainder of 2013.
We expect full year revenue to be down 5% to 6% and maintain our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance of $1.30 to $1.40 excluding the Brazil valuation allowance of $0.61 per share.
We remain focused on executing our transformation initiatives and making the necessary investments in the business particularly in the area of innovation IT and back-end office support.
In conclusion we've made progress on several of our initiatives during the quarter.
We are beginning to instill the operational rigor required to drive the transformation.
There is still a great deal of work to be done before we can finalize our full potential as a company.
After 5 months on the job I'm confident in the steps we have identified to build on our core strength and capitalize on key opportunities in the marketplace.
As mentioned earlier we will share the details behind the company's transformation strategy and our outlook for 2014 at our upcoming Investor Day.
With that I'll turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Andy.
I'm honored that I've been entrusted with the interim financial leadership.
I've been with the company over 17 years and have served in a multitude of financial leadership roles throughout the organization.
Now I would like to walk you through our third quarter financial results including the goodwill impairment for Brazil on Slides 13 through 23 in the supporting presentation.
Then I would like to provide an update on our legal and compliance matters.
Finally I will provide an update on our guidance for the remainder of 2013 and our free cash flow outlook.
Turning to Slide 13 total revenue was down 1% during the quarter as a result of lower volumes in the Brazil elections and lottery business but was up 1% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact was mainly driven by a weakening of the Brazilian real.
As we move to Slide 14 financial self-service revenue was up approximately $5 million or 1% as a result of strong performance in our international regions partially offset by declines in North America.
Security revenue was flat compared with the prior year period with a 7% growth in Electronic Security offset by continued declines in physical security.
Electronic Security is starting to show tougher comparisons with prior periods as our strategies next phase are beginning to gain traction.
On Slide 16 gross margin for the quarter was up 0.9 percentage points at 24.9%.
This was driven by a solid improvement and service gross margin which increased 3.8 percentage points to 29%.
This increase includes the benefit of our transformation efforts across the global service operation.
Product gross margin however was down 3.1 percentage points to 19.3% influenced by customer mix differences in the U.S.
business.
Moving on to Slide 17 total operating expense decreased $11.1 million as our cost savings efforts continue to materialize.
SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue was down 1.5 percentage points at 15% compared with the prior year period.
Our R&amp;D spend increased slightly to $21.8 million or approximately 3% of revenue as we continue to invest in future innovation and products and services.
Turning to Slide 18 operating margin increased 2.3 percentage points at 6.8%.
EPS on a GAAP basis was a $0.34 loss during the quarter including restructuring charges of $0.05 nonroutine and amortization expense of $0.05 and an improvement of our deferred tax expense on foreign cash repatriation of $0.03.
In addition there was a $54 million after-tax goodwill impairment charge taken in the quarter.
The goodwill impairment charge taken during the quarter is a result of our reassessment of the macroeconomic outlook in Brazil structural changes to an auction-based purchasing environment and new competitors entering the market over the past several quarters.
The combination of these factors brings us to $0.56 on a non-GAAP basis.
Benefiting the quarter by approximately $0.05 was $3 million in foreign translation gains and lower effective tax rate of 25%.
Moving on to cash flow on Slide 20 free cash used during the quarter improved $6.9 million year-over-year and essentially was breakeven.
However our days sales outstanding increased 6 days as a result of the change in geographic mix with a heavier concentration of Asia Pacific and Brazil that typically carry longer contractual payment terms.
Inventory turns on Slide 22 improved to 4.7 turns.
We continue to bring additional discipline and focus across our global operations to improve our cash generation activities.
George Mayes our COO is leading weekly meetings with the operations to drive our working capital improvement activities.
Net debt on Slide 23 for the period was $183.2 million a $32 million increase from the prior year period.
The net-debt-to-capital ratio increased 5 percentage points to 15%.
As we discussed during the second quarter earnings call we've executed on our strategy to repatriate surplus cash from our international operations which was used to pay down debt.
Turning to Slide 24.
As previously disclosed the company has reached agreement with the DOJ and the SEC on the terms of the settlement of their inquiries regarding FCPA including combined payments in the fourth quarter to the U.S.
government of approximately $48 million.
Additionally we will have an independent compliance monitor for a minimum period of 18 months.
This independent compliance monitor is intended to provide recommendations to the company as to additional potential enhancements to our policies controls and training programs and to provide assurance to the government over time that the company has an effective FCPA compliance program in place.
We feel we have made considerable continuous improvements to our compliance program and we'll implement enhancements as identified.
As previously disclosed one of our Brazilian subsidiaries was notified in the third quarter of 2012 of a tax assessment of $133 million regarding certain Brazilian Federal indirect taxes for 2008 and 2009.
There has been no change in the status of this assessment and we continue to remediate our indirect tax material weakness.
On Slide 25 we are tightening our revenue guidance expecting it to be down 5% to 6% from our previous guidance of 5% to 7% and we are maintaining our non-GAAP EPS guidance of $0.69 to $0.79.
Excluding the Brazil valuation allowance of $0.61 this equates to a range of $1.30 to $1.40.
We expect our full year non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 28% to 30%.
As Andy mentioned we expect earnings to remain under pressure in the near term as we make the necessary reinvestments to position the company for growth.
In regards to our free cash flow outlook for 2013 on Slide 26 we are forecasting a use of approximately $25 million including the cash outlays for the FCPA settlement the expected security class action lawsuit settlement and cash taxes associated with our cash repatriation efforts.
Finally we are currently targeting operational cash flow of $50 million to $70 million for the full year excluding the previously outlined items.
In closing we have a lot of work in front of us.
We continue to make progress strengthening our control environment while operationally reducing our costs and improving our working capital position.
We are confident that we are on the right track and are focused on executing sustainable reductions for our underlying cost structure.
This provides us the capacity to reinvest and position the company for the future.
With that I'll turn the call back over to John.
Thanks Chris.
Jim we're prepared to take our first question at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And we will hear first from Kartik Mehta.
Andy just as you've reviewed over the last few months kind of where you need to invest any thoughts on any changes from your initial observation as to where you need to invest or how much you need to invest? Kartik good to hear from you.
Good question.
Still pretty much the same picture.
I would like to probably add one element to it.
We're going to invest especially on the deal side to regaining more customer mind share as we talk about the change of our industry about innovation and future products and solutions but that would be the only add to the picture that I've given you 3 months ago.
So does that mean more salespeople or are you talking maybe more sales tools or something completely different? It's a combination of both paired up with our continuous effort to bring more innovation from behind the curtain into the shopfront window and the value proposition that you need to articulate for the customers that goes with that.
And then Andy you had very good results on the service margin side.
Was the improvement related to U.S.
business or international business? Well it's a whole slew of things.
So of course the headcount reduction that we have taken earlier in the year will show up in our cost of sales on the labor side in the U.S.
It's also a mix in the type of businesses it's a mix in customers it's the mix in country.
We had a few countries come through where the service revenue was more prevalent in the overall -- or that we've gotten from the customers a few months back.
So it's a whole laundry list of things [indiscernible].
And then just one last question.
I know that you talked a little bit about the U.S.
market.
I'm wondering are you seeing any signs of a bounce back? Could this -- could the market go back to in your eyes some growth in 2014? I'm pretty optimistic that we will see a recovery in the market in 2014.
My gut tells me it's going to be more second half of '14 than first half.
But the type of conversations that we're having the inquiries around POCs the workshops about -- around branch transformation from the conversations about outsourcing so activity is picking up.
Let's keep in mind these are all long sales cycles and there is no pending event that would force a customer to make an immediate decision at any given point in time but we're carefully optimistic about the U.S.
And now we'll take a question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Andy in your prepared remarks you mentioned that the flow-through of cost savings to the bottom line versus reinvestment is not going to be linear.
If we think about over a long period of time that being split 50-50 I guess I'm trying to understand is it going to vary to 55-45 to 60-40 to 90-10? What sort of variability should we expect from one quarter to the next? That's a good question Matt.
And we're actually working on a simplified version to break this out for you and your peers at our Investor Day.
But the approach we took is first we wanted to make sure that we saw the cost savings of our actions make sure they showed up in our P&amp;L before we started to spend money.
But if you think and I mentioned it at the last call IT is an area where we have to make massive investments.
These are things where you have purchase moments in time there are rollout costs associated with it.
So we stay committed to the $150 million.
We stay fully committed to the $75 million that's going to flow-through the bottom line.
But you want to think of 2014 as the year of heavy lifting so the investment will be more centered around the 2014 time frame so we can reap the benefits in the full year of 2015.
And we'll as I said we'll break that out with a little bit more clarity for you in 2 weeks.
Research Division</strong> So sort of on the heels of that then Andy I mean when you look at where expectations are set today would your initial assessment lead you to conclude that that's adequately being captured in where people have '14 modeled for you guys? That's a good question.
But let's do 2014 in 2 weeks because one question is going to lead in the other.
And we want to make sure that we have the appropriate supporting documents for you to have a meaningful conversation if you would allow.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just one more can you talk in more detail about the changes in competitive dynamics you're seeing in Brazil? The changes in the auction process? Just more detail behind that.
Well before I let Chris do the financials just think about what the Brazilian market has gone through.
The market has consolidated from some 25 26 banks down to 6 major banks.
The banks have gone to a completely -- to an auction process in the way that they procure systems.
The macroeconomic environment in Brazil has been challenging for the country.
Some of the banks are government owned and they are not completely independent of what's going on in the bigger picture of the country.
You have competitors like OKI who just entered the market.
So there's a lot of dynamics behind that that led to the assessment.
But I'll let Chris finish the financial side if you're interested in that.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Chris? Sorry.
Matt could you clarify specifically from the financial side what aspects you want to have additional detail on? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean I guess I'm trying to understand the significance of some of the factors that went into -- at the end of the day how you come up with this number versus a lower number versus a higher number versus writing it all down? Yes.
So Matt we went through and looked at all aspects of the business over the last several quarters.
And based on the overall activity and the changes in the market we were looking at our near-term performance combined with our outlook over the next several quarters.
And while we do see some bright spots obviously in our GAS business and our expectations of that moving forward the underlying operational performance in our core FS business has structurally changed.
And so we looked at all aspects of the business segmenting across each of those we'll say product lines and we ultimately determine the fair value of our operation based on that assessment.
And that resulted in a partial goodwill impairment of $70 million leaving approximately $35 million to loan books.
And now we'll take a question from Gil Luria from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask a little bit about global market share.
Within the last couple of years you lost some share in Brazil and you lost some share in Europe as you were retrenching.
But it seems like those are turning the corner.
With double-digit growth in Europe is that something that you think is sustainable continued growth there? Is it profitable growth? Is the impressive growth in Asia sustainable? Is that profitable? Do you think you'll continue to be able to regain some of that share? Let me do it a step at a time here.
First of all we're only after profitable growth.
So we look at every opportunity and the margin tools that are associated with that.
We see that branch transformation opens up conversations and opens up new doors that weren't open for us especially in Europe as of late.
We've also started to work very heavily on our sales approach and we are making sure that we're more active in reaching out to customers and create generating more opportunities despite -- by showing up more often quite basically.
So those are the positives.
There is still a lot of puts and takes in some of the emerging market high volatility from quarter-to-quarter on where the markets go.
But in general we see a lot of interest in Diebold we see a lot of interest in our products and we're getting a lot of traction in our services offering.
Research Division</strong> Then in EMEA does that success mean you're less likely to retrench from further countries as you have over the last couple of years? So our overall objective is to grow the company but to do that in a very profitable manner.
And the focus that we're taking in Europe is not necessarily a country-based focus.
It's an account-based focus and there's many global accounts that are headquartered in Europe.
I've given you the BBVA example.
We're going to go down that path and we're going to grow profitably account by account.
Research Division</strong> Then on the investment front I think you're talking about the fact that you expect some of your investment of the gains that you've made to begin shortly.
Should we expect that to be on the R&amp;D line and then the SG&amp;A line where you'd be expanding your presence in some places or more in the capital expenditures where you'd be extending your infrastructure? All of the above.
And now we'll take a question from Paul Coster JPMorgan.
There is no response from Mr.
Coster's line we'll move on to the next question that will come from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> The first question is on the North America.
You talked about opportunities and branch transformation.
You did highlight that you had 20 different customers.
Your -- can you tell us what the mix of customers were with regional versus national banks? Technology usually flows from big to small.
So no surprisingly you would see the national to go down that route first.
They have a natural bias towards using technology as their key differentiating factor.
But you see the conversation going down and we actually have it all the way down through some credit unions that are getting their arms around the technology trying to figure out what their value prop is going to be going forward.
So it's a very encouraging mix that will not only pressure test the technology but it will actually help all of us to get a better sense for the use cases of tomorrow.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last quarter when you guided for 2013 your guidance has excluded major tenders in Brazil and an uptick in demand from U.S.
regional banks.
I just want to understand the guidance that you're reiterating today.
What are the assumptions today versus what you had guided last quarter? I mean you did say you did win one major tender in Brazil.
I think you had 2 outstanding tenders last quarter.
So can you just clarify your guidance assumption? Well first of all the assumptions have not changed.
It's the same as last quarter and we have still the same picture as last quarter.
So yes we won one of those tenders in Brazil but there's not enough time to revenue that order in 2013 so it'll show up in our backlog ending the year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
And just one quick question on the cash flow.
How big are the onetime cash charges were in your year-to-date cash flow number? A lot of those charges are going to come through in the fourth quarter actually.
They're sitting on a liability right now.
We're going to pay out the significant onetime charges in the fourth quarter approximately the $48 million to the SEC and DOJ in addition to another potential -- to a securities class action lawsuit settlement of approximately $15 million.
And so we have several of those onetimes coming through in addition to the cash taxes related to our repatriation efforts of approximately another $10 million to $15 million.
Those are the significant onetime items that are going to come through.
We will have some significant restructuring activity in the fourth quarter as well specifically related to the VERP that is coming up.
But a majority of that would not be a cash charge in the current year obviously as we pay that severance out over the first half of 2014 that would impact cash flow.
And now we'll take the next question Jeff Kessler with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> With regard to branch transformation particularly in the United States and talking to clients you've -- okay you've gone through a product cycle on the ATM side.
However what I'm interested in is putting yourself in the client's shoes what is the value proposition that they are looking for to improve their efficacy as of financial institutions? What are the services that they're asking you to provide so we can get an idea of what level of conversation are you having with these banks and what types of services do they need that are going to present you with higher margins? That's a good question.
I'll try to boil it down into a short answer because we apparently we've been talking about this for a long time.
If you're a bank you're trying to get your arms around a very challenging set of requirements from the bank customers which is the customers don't go to the branch as often as they used to.
But by the same token when they need a branch they want to have a branch within their vicinity should be very convenient for them.
So the question of the bank is how do we keep presence? How do I optimize footprint? Is there a way for me to run a smaller branch? Is there a way for me to contain my costs while providing additional services to the client? And so when they talk to us they look at the complete value chain they look at customer experience they're looking at costs they're looking at additional opportunities.
That's why they talk to us about video because it gives them a way to provide longer opening hours without having to staff local branch heads.
They're looking at moving approximately from 50% of the work that a teller does on machine north to 70% of the work putting that on the machine.
And to your point the more we go into workflow optimization that's of course where the business gets to get attractive also from a margin pool.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Second question.
In the back part on your Electronic Security business.
Can you talk about -- or is that backlog does that backlog consist of increasing amounts of not just installation but installation plus monitoring and other recurring revenue? Isn't just that the backlog has more than just break fix recurring revenue in it? In other words are you converting these installation sales into monitoring sales as well? You're spot on.
That's exactly where we're going.
Now as you know these are longer sales cycles.
It will take time until these things show up on the revenue side but we're very heavily focused on generating a bigger backlog on recurring monthly revenue.
And we're encouraged with the early results that we're seeing so far.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can you elaborate on that at all in terms of what -- are you continuing to see a move toward a more broad-based breakdown 50% commercial has that grown at all in the last month at all in terms of the backlog you're putting on relative to financial? Commercial is the fastest-growing segment.
And we're going to break that out for you at our Investor Day.
I've actually ask Tony Byerly who runs our security business to be with us that day in New York to give you a little bit more color and background exactly around your questions.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Finally final question and I know it's the sensitive one which you're probably not going to be able to answer but with regard to Brad could you give us maybe just the general nature for the reason that he's leaving? Was it personal? Was it corporate? Was it difference of financial difference of strategic direction or something -- anything that you could enlighten us with.
It's a personal decision.
Brad wants to pursue other opportunities in his career.
It has nothing to do with the course of the company.
Nothing to do with the strategic direction or the financials of our operation.
And now we'll hear from call Paul Coster JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Mark Strouse on for Paul Coster.
Can you hear us now? Yes.
Research Division</strong> So most of them have actually been answered.
But I guess the last one remaining for us would be can you just give us a reminder for the margins maybe on a relative to corporate average basis for the Electrical Systems business? Are you talking about in Brazil? You're talking about Brazil or...
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
I'm sorry.
In Brazil.
So we're not in the electrical business.
Those typically run in the low-20s.
Now we'll hear from Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Two quick questions this morning.
First off could you provide a little bit more detail as to the mix factors that are helping the services gross margin and impeding the product gross margin? I think you alluded to them earlier.
Best way -- let me use India as a showcase for you.
The Indian market has pretty much gone to a razor razor blade type of model.
Low margins on the product side but they do sign up for multi-year service contracts with accretive margins.
So if you look -- holistically look at the deal the pendulum swings towards the service side.
And we've seen now more of those large Indian deals come through on the services side so the model is starting to work out in our P&amp;L.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Anything else sort of you would highlight beyond the Indian dynamic that's driving sort of the mix element of the gross margin? I think one thing when you look at year-over-year is obviously we're down from a geographic mix standpoint with lower regional activity which was still benefiting last year from the tail end of the ADA/PCI upgrade cycle.
So losing some of that volume year-over-year is hurting the overall mix that we're seeing right now.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the service side the sort of uptick which was stronger than that year-to-date uptick is that heavily impacted by the Indian business or are there other [indiscernible]? It's the Indian business but it's also -- it comes back to the operational execution.
George is very meticulous with our regional service leaders just to make sure that we do well on the stuff that we've signed up to do.
And the other thing is we stop doing dumb things when it comes to the type of contract that we brought in in the house.
So good contract executed better will automatically lead to higher margins.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just one quick question in addition.
On the order book side how much was the overall global order book helped by the Brazilian tender? I'd gladly give you the answer outside of this call.
I've actually got to run the math myself.
And now Glenn Mattson with Sidoti &amp; Company will have the next question.
LLC</strong> Most of the things have been answered already.
But I guess the one last thing I'd like to hit on is the -- have you guys reaffirmed kind of the -- firmly reaffirmed to the dividends or is it something maybe that you plan on talking about at the Investor Day? We're reaffirming the dividend.
Doug Greiner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think last quarter you disclosed $11 million in cost savings specifically related to the realignment program.
What was the figure this quarter? I think the figure directly tied to the cost savings this quarter obviously you can see the improvement in the OpEx and you can also see some of the improvement in the service margin which as Andy highlighted was also benefited by mix.
But I would reiterate as we move forward we are going to have some continued reinvestments that are going to net against that -- some of those savings.
And we'll here once again from Matt Summerville of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
If you look at your North American order books Andy what's your expectation for the fourth quarter in terms of incoming order rates for both big banks and small banks? And I guess what have you seen thus far in October as we're starting to get closer to that Windows 7 transition? We see Windows 7 as an important conversation.
Not every bank is as aggressive on the time schedule as U.S.
Bank.
They're kind of leading the pack on this one.
So -- and then everything else we're looking at the pipeline reviews as we speak.
As you know Q4 always has its own set of dynamics and idiosyncrasy so we'll see to that.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess with respect to O-K-I or OKI in Brazil are you seeing those guys come in with their own sort of product that they're bringing to market or are they just putting their stamp on a [indiscernible] product.
I guess I'm trying to understand why those guys coming in the markets maybe adding a little bit more disruption? The reason why the ventured the market you've got to ask them that question.
At this point in time they are digesting the acquisitions.
And as you know every acquisition has an initial phase of trying to figure out what true north is.
They're also -- the bank has to figure out how the bank wants to deal with them going forward but they're clearly adding more competitive pressure into a market that already has been extremely competitive in the first place.
Research Division</strong> So whereas banks may have been hesitant to buy from [indiscernible] they were captive of their -- as they were captive of their bank parent you're seeing less resistance on the part of other financial institutions to consider them as an alternative now.
Am I understanding that correctly? We don't know yet.
We'll have to see how that's going to play out.
And this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the call back over to your host for closure remarks.
Thanks Jake.
And thank you all for joining us this morning.
Again we look forward to seeing many of you at our upcoming Analyst Day in New York on November 12.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact me or Jamie Finefrock directly.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude your conference for today.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to Diebold Incorporated's First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Camille.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Diebold's First Quarter Conference Call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO; and Chris Chapman Vice President Global Finance and Interim Principal Financial Officer.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Andy and Chris will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we would encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as of past calls it is important to note that we are excluding certain restructuring charges nonroutine income and expenses from our non-GAAP financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I'll turn it over to Andy.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today as we discuss our results for the first quarter.
There are several items I will be covering today: First I'll provide key takeaways from the quarter; second a regional update; third an update on our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy; and finally our outlook for 2014.
Now let's discuss the key takeaways from the quarter.
As we have been communicating we are focused on cost and cash in the crawl stage of our Diebold 2.0 turnaround with a lot of heavy lifting in front of us.
During the first quarter we made progress on the following areas.
We generated financial results in accord with our own expectations which provides us a solid foundation as we execute on our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy.
We delivered a sizable portion of our backlog in Brazil which contributed to the strong revenue growth we saw in the quarter.
Our focus remains on our 4 core pillars: Cost cash talent and growth and executing on our commitments including our $150 million cost reduction program.
We continue to see savings flow to the bottom line as a result.
Supporting our transformation strategy we are focused on executing our initiatives into increasing investment levels in the areas of development sales and marketing information technology and back-end office support.
We've consistently communicated [Audio Gap] we wanted to ensure that our cost savings are coming through before making the appropriate reinvestment in the business.
Starting in the second quarter we are stepping up our reinvestment in the business which will continue over the next 6 to 8 quarters.
This includes a major business process outsourcing initiative with Accenture that we announced this morning.
The project will ramp up as the year progresses.
I will be discussing the Accenture project in more detail later in the call.
Finally you'll note that the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar had an adverse impact on our earnings during the quarter.
As we noted during the last call the impact of currency exchange rates poses a risk for us.
Impact of Venezuela devaluation will clearly make things more challenging for us this quarter and currency remains a risk.
As a result we are maintaining full year guidance of non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.65 to $1.85.
In short we're sticking to our motto to say what we will do and do what we say.
Now let's talk about order activity in our regions.
Total orders for both product and services in the first quarter grew approximately 8% or 10% on a constant-currency basis.
We continue to see stronger demand internationally.
Outside of North America in aggregate orders grew 29% to 35% on a constant-currency basis.
In North America total orders during the quarter decreased 9%.
The Financial Self-Service in North America total orders for product and services declined 14%.
As we've previously indicated total order activity in the regional business in North America continues to steadily improve.
In the National Account space orders were down compared with the first quarter 2013 when we won a very large deal.
Nevertheless we expect total North America orders for the full year to grow in the mid-single digits aided by a ramp of Windows 7 upgrade activity.
In Security in North America total orders increased 2% with growth in Electronic Security mostly offset by a decline in physical security.
Looking at our global Electronic Security business we continue to gain momentum.
Revenue and total orders both grew in the 20% range during the quarter.
We continue to see solid order growth in North America in both the financial and commercial market as well as in Brazil related to our logical security business.
To help grow this business organically we continue to increase sales coverage by bringing experienced sales talent and leadership into the company and are developing our strategy to grow Electronic Security globally.
We remain on track to reach our goal of hiring 50 net new sales executives by end of 2014.
Moving to Asia Pacific.
Total orders decreased 7% for the quarter or 3% on a constant currency basis.
Lower volumes in China were mostly offset by higher volume in India as the government-driven mandates for ATM deployments continue coupled with growing interest in our green ATM D429.
This product is generating opportunities outside of India.
For example we recently announced a win to deploy D429s to BankIslami in Pakistan.
Asia continues to be a multifaceted emerging market and we're confident in our ability to effectively compete in the region.
In EMEA our team has executed its restructuring plan and is now focused on growth and becoming a stronger competitor in the marketplace.
Total product and service orders for the quarter grew 75% and similarly on a constant currency basis.
We're seeing strong demand in both emerging and mature markets where deposit automation and cash recycling solutions particularly in South Africa and the Middle East.
We also are gaining traction in the western European market and are picking up some new customers through our focus on global accounts.
We're excited to have recently secured Barclays as a new customer.
We won an order for about 300 advanced ATMs to replace older units in their U.K.
network.
In Latin America total orders for the quarter increased 5% being driven by growth in both Security and Financial Service.
As we noted on the last call we ended 2013 with improved backlog in the region which positions us well for revenue growth in 2014.
In Brazil orders for the quarter increased approximately 75% and more than doubled on a constant-currency basis.
This was primarily due to 2 large orders for IT-related equipment much of which revenued during the first quarter.
Chris will walk you through some changes we've made in our product revenue categories as a result of these orders.
Excluding these special projects orders were up low double digits on constant currency with improvements in both Financial Self-Service and Security.
We expect our non-core business in Brazil to be a strong contributor to our growth for the full year.
However Brazil will be a headwind in 2015 as the non-core business that we expect to revenue this year will not repeat in 2015.
Looking at our total business for the quarter we continue our focus on becoming a services-led software-enabled company.
Services and software revenue continue to make up the majority of our total revenue in the first quarter at 56%.
Now let's discuss our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy and a few key initiatives as it relates to the 8-point program we previously outlined.
First in terms of establishing a competitive cost structure and increasing speed and agility.
As you saw this morning we announced a major business process outsourcing agreement with Accenture to transform our back-office operation.
This will create many benefits including a more variable cost structure simplified and standardized processes as well as streamlining a number of transactional functions across our global infrastructure.
These types of transformation initiatives are always challenging.
My previous experience with a project of this nature the first 18 to 24 months require a lot of heavy lifting and investments before one can begin to realize the benefits.
We initially intended to implement this in-house but saw several benefits by teaming up with an experienced transformation partner.
In working with Accenture we are strengthening our business controls and processes to help execute our multiyear Diebold 2.0 transformation.
While our agreement with Accenture requires substantial upfront investments in 2014 and 2015 it increases our degree of confidence in meeting our business objectives and provides us flexibility to add scale as Diebold grows.
This approach will help drive success within our 4 key turnaround pillars: cost cash talent and growth and better position us to extend our cost coverage -- savings beyond 2015.
In addition we have synchronized our roll-out plans from our previously announced IT transformation with Oracle and Infosys to align with our back-office transformation initiatives.
Second in regards to instilling a winning culture grounded in execution.
We continue to be keenly focused on fostering a performance-based philosophy in bringing new talent into the company to help drive change.
Yesterday we announced that Bassem Bouzid will join our company to lead the EMEA operations.
Bassem has tremendous international business leadership experience and has driven results especially with large organizations in the technology and services industry in Europe Middle East and Africa markets.
His leadership will be instrumental in driving continued momentum in the region.
Regarding our search for a new CFO we have identified several strong candidates and are making steady progress.
We're focused on finding the right person for this role and we'll take the time necessary to do so.
To help instill cultural change within the company we're rolling out an employee stock purchase program which will allow employees around the world to purchase Diebold shares at a discount.
The purpose here is to drive greater equity ownership and awareness of the company's performance while allowing employees to benefit from the efforts put forth in our turnaround.
Finally in regards to collaborating with customers and partners to drive innovative solutions last month we announced the world's greenest ATM with our D429 a terminal that consumes up to 40% less energy than other models.
In India we were the only ATM provider with a workable solution that met the country's uninterruptible power supply requirement demonstrating our ability to respond to the unique challenges of our customers.
The power management elements of the D429 will serve as a platform for future ATM designs.
Moving on to our outlook for 2014 we are slightly increasing our outlook for full year 2014 revenue to grow in the mid-single digits and reaffirming EPS in the range of $1.65 to $1.85 on a non-GAAP basis.
We're focused on executing our transformation initiatives and increasing investment levels in the areas of development sales and marketing information technology and back-office support.
We will also selectively rehire for mission-critical roles affected by the voluntary early retirement program late last year.
As noted previously 2014 remains a year of heavy lifting.
We are no different from any other turnaround story.
The low-hanging fruit is typically sought after and realized first resulting in increased savings upfront.
This is usually followed by more transformational investments a slowdown in the rate of cost improvements in the near term and culminates in measured sustainable savings over the long term.
Needless to say throughout the remainder of 2014 these investments will offset some of the profitability improvements we're making in our business.
To conclude we have a number of transformational initiatives underway.
Successfully executing on these initiatives over the next 6 to 8 quarters will provide the necessary foundation to deliver on our turnaround strategy.
We are in the early stages of our multiyear journey and have a long road in front of us.
And we remain confident in our ability to generate long-term shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
First I will walk through our first quarter financial performance then I will provide an update on the legal and compliance front before discussing our 2014 revenue earnings and free cash flow outlook.
Now to review our financial results.
Turning to Slide 16 total revenue for the quarter increased approximately 9% or 12% on a constant currency basis as a result of increased volume in Brazil and EMEA partially offset with a decrease of 14% in North America.
The currency impact was driven by a weakening of the Brazilian real and Indian rupee.
As we move to Slide 17 Financial Self-Service revenue decreased approximately 1% on a constant-currency basis with increases in EMEA and Latin America offset by declines in North America and Brazil.
EMEA continues to gain momentum with growth in both product and service revenue.
Latin America exceeded the prior year in both product and service revenue as they begin to execute on strong 2013 year-end backlog.
In North America the regional business was stable versus prior year however several large non-repeating projects in the National Account business led to the decline.
Lower volume in Brazil was timing-related and performance will improve throughout the year as we execute on our backlog.
Total Security revenue on Slide 18 was up 4% compared with the prior period.
Our Electronic Security business grew 19% driven by strong growth in North America partially offsetting this increase was a 14% decline in our Physical Security business.
Moving on to Slide 19 we've made a change in our revenue reporting for products and services.
Previously the sale of IT equipment in Brazil was reported under Financial Self-Service as it was relatively immaterial.
Due to the large one-off order in Brazil tied to deliveries of IT-related equipment to the education ministry we have reclassified this revenue for both current and prior year to a new category labeled Brazil Other which includes election systems lottery and IT technology.
On Slide 20 gross margin for the quarter improved 3 percentage points to 24%.
This was driven by a solid improvement in service gross margin which increased 5.3 percentage points to 28.4%.
This improvement reflects the continued benefit of our service transformation efforts across the globe including the ongoing benefit from our pension freeze and voluntary early retirement program in North America.
Product gross margin increased 0.6 percentage points to 18.4%.
This was driven by better manufacturing utilization and favorable mix in Brazil.
As I stated last quarter we remain focused on our cost actions and driving additional efficiencies to show sustainable improvements in total gross margin.
Moving on to Slide 21.
Total operating expense increased $6.1 million compared with the first quarter 2013.
During the first quarter we started making the initial investments in our transformation.
Over the mid to long term these investments will continue to improve both our internal controls and processes as well as reduce costs.
Operating expense as a percent of revenue was 19.7% compared to 20.4% in the prior year period reflecting continued leverage of approximately 1% on increased volume.
Turning to Slide 22.
Non-GAAP operating margin in the first quarter increased 3.8 percentage points to 4.3% versus the same period in 2013.
We are encouraged with the initial improvements we've made to our cost structure and remain focused on executing our $150 million gross cost savings initiative.
Looking at Slide 23.
All regions improved in terms of profitability except Latin America which was overshadowed by the impact of the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
North America and Brazil reflect the largest improvements.
The increase in North America is directly related to the changes we've made in our cost structure.
In Brazil the favorable performance was driven by higher volumes and positive mix as previously mentioned.
EPS on a GAAP basis was $0.15 during the quarter.
This includes restructuring charges of $0.05 primarily related to severance costs tied to the BPO agreement with Accenture announced today and nonroutine expense of $0.01 related to legal fees from the previously settled SEC/DOJ investigations.
In addition we had a $0.03 impact from additional tax expense associated with the approximate $275 million foreign cash repatriation in the prior year.
The combination of these factors brings us to $0.24 earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis for the first quarter.
Included in our result is a $0.09 impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
Our Venezuelan operation consist of a 50% owned subsidiary which is consolidated.
Venezuela is measured using the U.S.
dollar as its functional currency because its economy is considered highly inflationary.
On March 24 2014 the Venezuelan government announced a currency exchange mechanism Sicad II which yielded an exchange rate significantly higher than the rates established through the other regulated exchange mechanisms.
As a result we remeasured our Venezuela balance sheet using the Sicad II rate of 50.9 versus the previous rate of 6.3.
This resulted in net losses of $12 million but it recorded with the foreign exchange loss which included a decrease of $6 million to our cash balance.
In addition this gave rise to a write-down of our Venezuelan service parts inventory of $4 million.
We'll continue to monitor the business environment in Venezuela and will make appropriate changes as needed to strengthen our ability and execute on our financial plans within the region.
First quarter non-GAAP effective tax rate was approximately 33%.
We still expect our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the full year to be approximately 30%.
Moving on to cash flow on Slide 25.
Our Free Cash flow results reflect a $39 million free cash use which improved approximately $2 million from the same period last year.
Turning to Slide 26.
The organization's focused efforts resulted in a DSO improvement of 6 days in the quarter versus the same period last year.
Looking at Slide 27.
Inventory turns reflected a small improvement at 5.4 turns compared to the first quarter 2013 of 5.2 turns.
Net debt on Slide 28 for the period was $110 million a $29 million increase from the prior year period.
Net debt-to-capital ratio increased approximately 4 percentage points to 10%.
Turning to Slide 29.
As previously disclosed the company has reached agreement with the DOJ and the SEC on the terms of the settlement regarding FCPA.
Additionally as previously disclosed we will have an independent corporate monitor for a minimum period of 18 months.
The government agencies have appointed a corporate monitor who will commence activities in the second quarter.
We have made considerable improvements to our compliance program and will continue to implement enhancements as the need is identified.
We're actively working to remediate our material weaknesses in Brazil and India.
We have made solid progress and expect to have both remediated during the year.
Looking at our outlook on Slide 30.
We are encouraged with our strong start to the year in both orders and revenue.
However currency remains a risk and the Venezuelan devaluation puts pressure on our non-GAAP EPS for the full year.
We estimate that for 2014 Venezuela results for second quarter through fourth quarter will generate essentially a 0 net income as a result of the devaluation.
Additionally as we previously discussed we will be ramping up our reinvestment in the business this year specifically in the areas of development IT and back-office support as it relates to our engagement with Accenture.
Therefore we're raising our revenue guidance to be up to mid-single digits.
We're maintaining non-GAAP EPS guidance of $1.65 to $1.85.
This includes the adverse impact of the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar of approximately $0.12 to non-GAAP EPS on the full year.
We expect restructuring charges and nonroutine expenses to be in the $0.30 to $0.35 and our full year non-GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
In regards to our free cash flow outlook for 2014 on Slide 30 we are maintaining our free cash flow outlook for the year of $80 million to $100 million.
This includes an approximate $35 million increase on our capital expenditures as we make strategic reinvestments in our business.
In closing we're committed to continuous improvements to maintain and strengthen our control environment while operationally reducing our costs improving our working capital efficiencies.
We're beginning to demonstrate tangible results from our turnaround efforts.
However we are early in the process and beginning the necessary reinvestments to position the company for long-term growth.
With that I'll turn the call back to John.
Thank you Chris.
Camille we'll now take questions please.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Gil Luria from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> First of all North America you said single -- mid-single-digit order growth for the year but you had down revenue for the quarter.
What's the outlook for the North America Financial Self-Service revenue for the year? And what's going to be driving them [indiscernible] the balance between regional and national and contribution from branch transformation? Gil starting with the last part of your question first on the branch transformation front I think we've seen that being a little bit of a longer sales cycle.
So we don't see that being a significant contributor at this point in the 2014 growth.
On the regional side our expectation is to continue to see a ramp as we go throughout the year getting the benefit of some of the Windows 7 activity that we've seen.
And so we're expecting our regional business to show some slight improvement over prior year again showing more of that momentum in the second half of the year as we start to revenue some of the orders.
On the national front again we've mentioned some of the large -- or lumpiness of some of the larger orders.
And so right now we expect that business to be roughly flat in the full year and again we'll provide additional color as we see some of that activity as it plays out over the next several quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then you seem to be making great progress on the $150 million plan.
When cost-cutting when do you plan to revisit either the scope or extending into the horizon of the cost cutting and introducing new opportunities for further cost reductions? When do you intend to revisit that with the investment community? Gil it's Andy.
The -- let me give you a baseball analogy.
If you take a look at our Diebold 2.0 turnaround we're probably in the second inning.
We're still early.
Before we squawk about extending the horizon let's make sure we deliver a few more quarters.
To give you a reasonable expectation we will be talking about longer-term aspirations of the company at our Investor Day which as usually will be in the early part of November this year.
We'll take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just to put this in perspective.
How big is Venezuela revenue and non-GAAP net income to Diebold in 2013 Chris? Full impact for the full year 2013 was probably around I don't have the exact number Matt about $35 million to $40 million approximately in terms of total revenue.
Again from a net income standpoint it was roughly $5 million to $6 million.
But remember again this is a joint venture so half of that goes away with the noncontrolling interest when you look at the full impact from an EPS standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then with what you decided to do with Accenture Andy if you look at the Accenture path you're moving down versus the previous path you were considering I guess.
Can you sort of walk through a little more granularity in terms of the cost benefit analysis that you would've done to come to this conclusion and why sort of now it makes sense to make what's a pretty substantial switch here? Happy to do so Matt.
Let's start out with part of our turnaround strategy from the very beginning was going to global processes global standards and pooling of resources in cost-optimized locations.
The initial plan when we outlined it to you and to your peers in November was to do all of that in a Diebold-owned environment.
After pressure testing the task and the to-dos we figured we were better off by partnering up with somebody who actually does transformation as a living and brings a lot of expertise to it because the most important thing is to make sure that these transformation happened in a secure way that our customers are not impacted and that we see the savings coming through as we progress.
So biggest driver was confidence in our ability to deliver and to improve our financial controls in this process.
From a cost-benefit point of view we decided to invest more in 2014 and '15 in these transformational activities and we'll see the benefits come through in 2016 and thereafter on a very steady run rate going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up I think in the past you guys have talked about kind of the first half versus second half weighting of your EPS.
Can you sort of go through that again given the timing of some of the things you're talking about today? It probably makes sense to revisit that.
Yes Matt I would reiterate where we were with the last call in terms of still expecting to see the back half of the year to be more heavily weighted.
From a ramp standpoint as well we're going to see continued increase on our overall investments in the business as we go throughout the quarter.
You're going to see that start to ramp-up in the second quarter.
And so again still a little bit of that back half weighting from a total earnings distribution.
We'll take our next question from Matt Lipton with Autonomous Research.
Just a real quick clarification first Chris.
The Accenture upfront investment that's going to be excluded from non-GAAP EPS so it's not contemplated in the guidance? No no.
There's going to be 2 pieces you'll see there.
So number one we will have some severance activity that will be called out from a restructuring standpoint that we will call out and exclude from our non-GAAP performance.
However the transition fees associated with that which we expect to be about $12 million to $15 million over the next 18 months that's just going to be part of our ongoing business operations.
Again as Andy mentioned the plan was to do a lot of this on our own and that would have been internal cost.
We're working with a partner it's part of our ongoing business and so we're not looking to exclude that from our future non-GAAP earnings.
Got it.
So it's in line with the $75 million of the $150 million that you had always talked about being reinvested in the business.
Is that fair? Yes I would say it's part of that maybe a little bit of an increase in that overall $75 million getting us closer to $80 million to $85 million and again we're looking at some additional areas to offset that through additional business performance.
So again maybe seeing a little bit higher reinvestment there again as we've switched our strategy with a little bit with regards to the back-office.
Got it.
And then large Brazil order in the quarter.
Can you just help us think about the profitability of that order relative to the company-wide margin? Was it magnitudes of the 4% operating margin and operating income profitability? Let me start with how we think about these Brazil other orders in general.
These are clearly adjacencies to our business.
So unless we like the overall margin picture of an order over the lifespan of an order we will not go down that path to take on those businesses.
But having said that the revenue that you see coming through in the first quarter comes through at a pretty good margin and that's also the litmus test for why we went down the path of doing such a project.
Okay fair enough.
And then just one quick one on free cash flow.
I see in the release that 97% to 99% of cash is still overseas.
How much of the cash balance now can be repatriated without any further tax consequences? And then as you think about your repatriation plans over the rest of 2014 how should we think about that considering the commitment to the dividend and the free cash flow that's generating being lost in the U.S.
over the next 6 to 9 months? So again I'll go backwards on your question here.
So for 2014 we're looking at repatriating approximately $70 million to $80 million from our foreign jurisdictions.
With regards to how much we can access without additional tax consequences again we did change our APB 23 assertion in the second quarter last year.
And so there's I'd say approximately half of that that we have access to on a go-forward basis without any additional material tax consequences compared to where we've been.
We'll take our next question from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Andy as I listen to your expectations for the U.S.
is it fair to say for you to expect kind of a low-single digit growth for the ATM part of -- in the U.S.? Yes.
And then Andy you talked about Western Europe having -- gaining traction in Western Europe and I think you mentioned order out of U.K.
are there other countries where you're gaining traction? Yes.
Before you go down a country path Kartik let me remind you we've taken an account path in Europe so we're going after global accounts.
We've mentioned Spain as a market where we are picking up speed very nicely on these curls earlier and we continue to go down that path.
Barclays is another proof point of adding a very important global account to the list.
And as we're adding more to the portfolio we will disclose them to you.
But it's really an account-centric approach but we're very encouraged with the picture that we're seeing in Europe and we're very encouraged with the opportunities and the conversations that we have with potential customers.
And Andy as you look at the ATM market today what would you anticipate worldwide growth? I know you're having great success in Western Europe.
I think you're having success in India and other parts of Asia.
But as you look at the entire world what type of growth are you anticipating for 2014? Depending on currencies and some movement I'd say low- to mid-single.
And then just one final question Chris.
Where would you anticipate ending up from a net debt perspective by end of year? Is your goal to pay down some of debt or do you anticipate that debt level will increase a little bit more? I'd expect our net debt to be largely similar with how we finished 2013.
I mean give or take some small fluctuations but not a significant change there.
We'll take our next question from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First up the Brazil other revenue of $79 million how much of that was actually onetime versus sort of recurring revenue? And is that reflective of the slight upward revisions to revenues for the year? So Paul a vast majority of that I would characterize as one-time.
Again while we will see some repeat activity in this space not at this same magnitude.
And yes that did impact our full year in terms of the increase that we put out.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And secondly the foreign exchange impact that you've experienced some of it's translation some of it's actually going to flow-through the income statement moving forward.
The guidance that you've issued on the bottom line does it sort of already take into consideration the flow-through at the income statement level and how much risk do you think there is there? The guidance that we put out obviously takes into account the impact of Venezuela which was a significant item that came through.
And also I would say moderate movements that we see in the exchange over the coming quarters.
And so that's all factored into our current guidance level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Finally so branch transformation seems to be occurring.
I guess I'd like to sort of just get under the covers a little bit of your statement here.
Is it that the there's projects occurring and you're not participating or there's no projects occurring and just the sales cycle for everyone is extended? No the -- the project pipeline is ramping up very nicely.
Over the last 6 months we have more than doubled the number of POCs that we have out with customers in North America.
So we feel very encouraged about that.
But the time from POC heading a true [indiscernible] for both parties the customers and ourselves of how will their clients embrace the technology? How much are they going to be able to route to self-service versus human interaction in the branch? How quickly do they want to ramp it up? Those are not trivial decisions for any branch and for any bank.
So that takes us time.
And then we'll expect the order numbers to go up but still be more a 2015 revenue play.
Also keep in mind branch transformation has a second element to the time frames that the banks think about because their objective is to reduce the size of the branch less people more machinery.
Well in order to reduce the size of the branch the leases of your branches have to be up for renewal because there's no landlord in the United States at this point in time that would let a bank move out of a physical branch and say "Oh sure why don't you move on because the space has been designed for a branch and there's not another bank moving into it?" So some very practical parameters drive the industry and drive the rollout for all of us that participate in that industry.
We'll take our next question from Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> My first question relates to the guidance for the year.
It seems like you're absorbing over a $0.15 headwind from the Venezuela depreciation and loss of income and perhaps modest other currency effects.
The extra income that you're getting from the large Brazil project seems to be something that would be significantly less than that $0.15-plus headwind.
So I'm trying to get my hands around where you're going to get -- see strength elsewhere in your business to sort of make up for the net headwind between those 2 factors and meet your initial earnings guidance? Justin so to take the pieces of this when you look at our original earnings guidance that we put out we did assume some impacts for currency moving forward.
Again there was a lot of talking around what was going around Venezuela now we didn't fully anticipate going to the Sicad II rate when we're initially going through some of the work.
And so we did have some of that factored in to some of the outlook that we originally put out.
So this is not all incremental in the full year when we look at the impact of Venezuela.
Again we're disclosing the full amount.
We've maintained where we're at in the full guidance.
And again then we have as you noted talked about the increase for the other revenue in Brazil which has been also helping to offset some of these other movements that we've seen.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
So I should interpret the unchanged guidance as reflecting sort of the incremental Venezuela currency headwind more or less offset by the incremental earnings from the large projects in Brazil? Or is there anything else that's a missing piece to that earnings guidance that I should think about versus what you gave a quarter ago? I think you have the pieces Justin.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly on bank branch automation I know that everyone's focused around developments in North America.
Could you maybe talk about what is happening in Europe or is on the verge of happening in Europe and how it's affecting the outlook for your business and profitability in that region? Europe is starting to embrace the technology.
There's a few countries that are pretty active in Western Europe.
We've seen a lot of positive momentum especially in Italy and in France and also the increased opportunity that we have in the U.K.
at the end of the day hinges on the new technology because the benefit of what's happening is as banks look at a next-generation playing field it gets re-leveled and people like ourselves get reinvited to the party and assuming the customers like our strategy going forward we actually have an opportunity to get a bigger piece of the action.
So good momentum on both sides of the Atlantic when it comes to innovative ATM technology and branch transformation.
Inc.</strong> Excellent that's good to hear.
And will bank branch transformation in Europe where margins haven't historically run as high as North America in your mind be an opportunity for further margin enhancement in that region over the next 2 years? Well the biggest driver for margin in Europe is actually volume.
As volume will increase so will our margin profile.
And again we feel very good about our position in Europe and we're looking forward to expand our footprint.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Jeff Kessler with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> And since I do cover Brinks just want to let you know I feel all your pain in Venezuela but 3x over.
Status -- if you could just give us some more details on the status of low energy ATMs in countries like Pakistan and India and can we see these types of technologies deployed in like developed countries like particularly in Americas what will it take to do that? Well an order to deploy it is as easy as getting the product certified.
But let me get back to the why is that such an important milestone and why do we squawk about it? Our technology in India allows an ATM to be up and operational for 3 to 4 hours without power.
It consumes less power than a 60-watt lightbulb.
The batteries can get recharged off of a solar panel.
And if you look at what's one of the main inhibitors for a country like India to roll out more technology to its rural population it is the inadequacy of the power grid and the power provisioning to a more remote area.
And if you then say are there other markets that have similar challenges than a rural India? There's a lot of markets that come to mind.
So it's no surprise that we won business in Pakistan.
There's many other emerging markets that we could think about.
And we're not only looking at taking the product that we've developed for India and introduce it to other markets.
More importantly is we're taking the IP that we've developed in that product and introduce it to every single one of our products going forward because we believe that efficient power consumption will move up on the evaluation scale of our customers as time progresses in all nations including the United States.
LLC</strong> Obviously what you're saying is they're obvious -- they're obviously both regulatory and functional hurdles to get through to get it to the United States first? Yes but that side it's -- that's more a technicality than it is rocket science.
But the more important thing is once you start looking at it and once you start to develop IT we feel very confident that we can add to it.
And we believe that the whole notion of green technology again think about Europe think about western Europe it's very much front of mind with many decision-makers in Europe and we're scoring big on having proof points and being leading in the industry when it comes to that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One other quick question.
Update on SecureStat status.
Last time you mentioned that you had 200 customers with about 10 000 sites.
I'm wondering if that's increased at all and if you can give us any idea of how far you think that can go or perhaps this year.
The good news is our Electronic Security business is growing very nicely in the United States as well as outside of the United States.
SecureStat is one of the main drivers.
Because the benefit of SecureStat is you don't have to change out your existing infrastructure in order to switch over to Diebold.
Think about it as pretty much a portal technology where any keypad any camera that you have out there can be hooked up to Diebold's monitoring centers and Diebold support.
So huge enabler with every growth that we have SecureStat is one of the main drivers.
I have to go back and find the exact number I don't have them at top of mind.
Happy to provide them to you through our IR team if you're interested.
LLC</strong> I am interested.
So...
Well get it for you.
LLC</strong> What percent of Venezuela -- I'm sorry what percent of Venezuela is your revenue? On a full year basis you can look at prior year it's about 1.5%.
We'll take our next question from Glenn Mattson with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just real quick did you -- did anybody say exactly what the onetime -- the stuff in Brazil above what you had prior expected was what's the magnitude of that revenue? If you look at the full year total company I would expect the onetime to be in the range -- and again this is comparing versus prior year of about 3% to 4% on the full year basis total revenue.
And just to clarify that's taking the PC plus some lottery activity that we previously announced the order on the fourth quarter -- on our fourth quarter call.
So really it's those 2 big pieces that I would say largely will not repeat next year.
LLC</strong> Remind me what the lottery was that you had said prior what the revenue expectation was for that? Approximately $50 million.
There appears no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Kristoff I'll turn it back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Camille.
As always if you have any additional questions please feel free to reach out to me or Jamie Finefrock directly.
And thank you again for joining us this morning for our first quarter call.
This does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Diebold Incorporated's Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Adam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Diebold's Second Quarter Conference Call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO; and Chris Chapman Senior Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Andy and Chris will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as of past calls it's important to note that we are excluding certain restructuring charges and nonroutine income and expenses from our non-GAAP financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
As a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is only current as of August 6 2014 and subsequent events may render the information in this replay out of date.
And now with opening remarks I'll turn it over to Andy.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today as we discuss our results for the second quarter.
There are several items I will be covering today: First I'll provide key takeaways from the quarter; second a regional update; third an update on our 2 -- Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy; and finally our outlook for 2014.
Before I begin I would like to recognize Chris Chapman who we recently named CFO.
Most of you got to know Chris during his time as Interim CFO.
He did a great job in the interim role and of the dozens of candidates we've interviewed the Board and I felt he was by far the best fit.
Chris has a strong and unique skill set with an in-depth knowledge of Diebold he makes data-driven decisions with a global perspective and unwavering ethics.
His promotion is an example of what we're trying to build from a talent perspective as we work to transform the company.
I am confident in his ability to continue to help lead Diebold towards a successful and sustainable transformation.
Now let's discuss the key takeaways from the quarter.
We delivered strong performance with solid revenue growth in line with our expectations especially in EMEA where we continue to soundly execute on our focused account strategy.
Our EMEA team continues to generate momentum and to increase our foot print.
In our Services business we continued the positive performance trend of gross margin improvement as a result of our ongoing transformation efforts.
In addition to improved gross margin the quarter benefited from higher net cost savings as the P&amp;L impact of some of our reinvestments have shifted towards the second half of the year.
As a result earnings per share came in higher than anticipated.
Finally I'm encouraged with our order book as we're seeing positive growth in virtually every region across the globe and ended the quarter with strong backlog.
This was driven primarily by a global strengthening of our core Financial Self-Service business.
Looking at the full year we are maintaining our revenue and earnings guidance.
And in the second half of 2014 as I mentioned earlier we will be accelerating the pace of our investments in innovation IT infrastructure back-office transformation service sales and marketing.
This will increase both our cost of sales and operating expense in the second half of the year.
Chris will be covering this in more detail in his remarks.
We have been mindful as a company regarding the speed at which we ramp our investments as we want to have confidence that our cost savings are coming through at a rate that enables us to fund our reinvestments while delivering on our plan.
Our focus remains on our 4 core pillars: Cost cash talent and growth.
And ultimately building a solid foundation for future profitable growth.
Now let's talk about order activity in our regions.
Total orders for both product and services in the second quarter grew approximately 7% or 9% on a constant currency basis with growth in 4 of our 5 regions.
When looking at total product orders we grew 18% in the quarter or approximately 30% when excluding the Brazil Other category which was tied to a large IT-related order in the second quarter of 2013.
In North America total orders during the quarter increased 7%.
In Financial Self-Services in North America total orders including services increased 14% driven by strong product orders which increased more than double that rate.
As we've previously indicated the regional business in North America continues to steadily improve aided by a ramp of Windows 7 upgrade and branch transformation.
Our Electronic Security business in North America continues to grow with solid order activity.
To help further grow our Electronic Security business we continue to increase sales coverage by bringing experienced sales talent and leadership into the company having hired 35 of a planned 50 net new sales executives.
We expect to hire the remaining sales leaders in the second half of 2014.
However as we've highlighted in the past the mature physical Security business continued to decline in the quarter which more than offset the order growth in Electronic Security.
Moving to Asia Pacific.
Total orders increased 22% for the quarter or 29% on a constant currency basis driven by strong growth in India and Southeast Asia.
Our competitive position remains strong in this growing region.
In EMEA our team continues to execute operationally with total product and services orders growing 24% during the quarter and at a similar rate on a constant currency basis.
We continue to see solid growth in Western Europe as well as the Middle East and Africa.
In Latin America total orders for the quarter increased 10% driven mainly by Mexico adding to our improved backlog in the region.
This positions us well for revenue growth in the second half of the year.
In Brazil orders for the quarter decreased 29% or 23% on a constant currency basis.
As we've communicated year-over-year comps over the next several quarters will continue to be distorted by prior large orders in the Brazil Other category.
A similar effect will occur on the revenue side which Chris will cover in his comments.
Looking forward to 2015 Brazil will be a headwind as much of the noncore Brazil Other business will not repeat.
Looking at our total business for the quarter we continue our focus on becoming a services-led software-enabled company.
Services and software revenue continued to make up the majority of our total revenue year-to-date at 57%.
Now let's discuss our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy and a few key initiatives as it relates to the 8-point program we previously outlined.
First in terms of establishing a competitive cost structure.
We made good progress in our services margin as we're starting to improve our IT infrastructure.
In the first half of 2014 we achieved a milestone in our IT transformation by sunsetting a number of 30-year-old IT apps to a more modern platform.
Also our new IT go-to-market model with Infosys successfully brought Brazil onto the Oracle platform as step 1 of our IT transformation.
We still have a great deal of work in front of us as we overhaul our IT systems.
Our CIO David Ramsey and his team are off to a great start.
As it relates to our back-office transformation you'll recall that we announced our newly established Accenture relationship in Q2.
We are early in the implementation phase and are in the process of transitioning a portion of the work scope.
Our investments in this regard will ramp up in the second half of 2014.
The full rollout of our partnership with Accenture will be a key focus area through 2015.
In short we're beginning to generate some positive traction and are building increased internal momentum as we begin to make progress on our transformation objectives.
Second we drove a number of innovation customer solutions during the quarter.
As part of Diebold 2.0 we said we would be investing in innovation and getting more of the behind-the-curtain technology out to the shop window.
Along these lines we introduced ActiveEdge last week the first card reading solution which prevent all modern skimming devices from reading the card's full magnetic stripe by shifting a card's angle 90 degrees.
Card skimming is the biggest ATM security risk facing consumers today and cost the industry more than $2 billion annually.
We believe this innovative approach will be a game changer in the ongoing fight to protect consumer data.
In addition we took meaningful steps to address security issues that have plagued the ATM industry for some time.
For example we are collaborating with Wincor to form the first ATM Security Industry Association to improve information sharing across the ATM community on evolving attack methods.
This represents an important step in a global effort towards ensuring ATMs remain a safe secure option for consumers to confidently conduct financial transactions.
We want to take this opportunity to encourage our colleagues within the ATM industry to join these important efforts against global ATM crime.
Secured customer transactions are the foundation to a successful automated environment that is the center of the branch transformation value proposition.
Along the lines of branch transformation we continue to gain traction with a number of institutions striving to improve their branch operations and consumer capability.
In addition to the work we continue to do with Bank of America BNL and other global accounts we're especially encouraged by the increase in branch transformation activity we're seeing in the regional bank space.
During the quarter we announced a number of branch transformation projects with institutions such as Alpine Bank Lakeland Bank and Bellco Credit Union.
This demonstrates that our full breadth of branch transformation services and solutions are relevant to customers of all sizes.
Third in regards to instilling a winning culture grounded in execution.
We continue to focus on fostering a performance-based philosophy and bringing new talent into the company to help drive change.
Since the end of the first quarter we attracted new leaders including our heads of legal and compliance global services and global marketing as we continue to strengthen our leadership team and accelerate our transformation efforts.
Yesterday we announced that Alan Kerr has joined the company as our new head of global software.
Alan brings extensive software experience to the company which will be critical as this element of our portfolio continues to grow in importance.
Finally in regards to generating long-term profitable growth we began by making some relatively small deals that support our Diebold 2.0 transformation and represents the types of opportunities we're evaluating to better align our portfolio with our longer-term strategy and view of the industry.
We divested our Eras check and payment processing business and we announced our acquisition of Cryptera a leading supplier of encrypting PIN pad technology.
This approach supports our strategy to increase our intellectual property portfolio.
To conclude we feel good about the progress we're making in our Diebold 2.0 transformation however we recognize that the majority of the heavy lifting remains in front of us as we're a company in transformation we're not transformed.
We're meeting our near-term objectives and remain confident in our long-term outlook.
With that I'll turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
I'm very excited about my new role as CFO and I look forward to being a part of the new leadership team to drive transformation of the company.
First I'll walk-through our second quarter financial performance then I'll provide an update on our 2014 revenue earnings and free cash flow outlook.
Now to review our financial results.
Turning to Slide 15 total revenue for the quarter increased approximately 4% or 6% on a constant currency basis as a result of increased volume in EMEA and Brazil partially offset by decline in Latin America and North America.
We expect our noncore business in Brazil to be a strong contributor to our revenue growth for the full year.
The currency impact was primarily driven by the Brazilian real and Indian rupee.
As we move to Slide 16 Financial Self-Service revenue was flat or up 2% on a constant currency basis with growth in EMEA offset by a decline in North America.
As we've noted EMEA continues to perform especially well posting solid revenue growth over the prior year.
In North America we had a tough compare in the National Account business as a result of the large project with TD Bank in the prior-year period.
However as Andy noted orders in North America were up significantly in the quarter which positions us for a stronger second half of the year.
Total Security revenue on Slide 17 was up 2% compared with the prior-year period.
Electronic Security grew 15% driven by strong growth in North America.
Offsetting this increase was a 14% decline in our physical security business.
Looking at Slide 18.
Brazil Other was up $24 million mostly driven by delivery on a large lottery order placed in the fourth quarter of 2013.
On Slide 19 gross margin for the quarter improved 2.6 percentage points to 25.5%.
This was driven by a solid improvement in service gross margin which increased 6.5 percentage points to 30.8%.
This improvement reflects the continued benefit of our service transformation efforts across the globe including the ongoing benefit from our pension freeze and Voluntary Early Retirement Program in North America specifically.
In the second half of 2014 some of our reinvestments will impact service cost of sales as we focus on improving our systems and expanding our infrastructure to support our select geographic growth and our global service transformation efforts.
Product gross margin decreased 2.2 percentage points to 18.7%.
The decrease was the result of geographic mix primarily tied to higher volumes and emerging markets.
Moving on to Slide 20 total operating expense increased $9.3 million.
Operating expense as a percentage of revenue was 19.3% compared to 18.7% in the prior-year period.
During the second quarter increased volume drove higher selling expense as we continue to make investments in our transformation such as expanding our sales coverage in Electronic Security.
Turning to Slide 21 year-to-date we've realized approximately $20 million of our planned $25 million in net savings.
To elaborate further while our gross savings are relatively equally distributed over the quarters the majority of our reinvestments will impact our P&amp;L in the second half of the year.
Over the mid- to long-term these investments in innovation IT infrastructure back-office transformation service sales and marketing will continue to improve our internal controls and processes reduce our costs and position us for growth.
Turning to Slide 22 non-GAAP operating margin in the second quarter increased 1.9 percentage points to 6.2% as a result of increased volume and continued benefits of our transformation efforts.
Looking at operating profit by segment on Slide 23 improvements in EMEA North America and Brazil were partially offset by decreases in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The increase in EMEA is the result of our historical restructuring efforts in the region coupled with strong growth.
North America is directly related to the changes made to the cost structure.
Asia Pacific was impacted by country mix within the region.
In Latin America lower volume combined with the year-over-year comparison in Venezuela impacted operating profit.
EPS on a GAAP basis was $0.64 during the quarter.
This includes restructuring charges of $0.01 primarily related to the multi-year realignment plan aimed at establishing a competitive cost structure throughout the organization.
In addition we incurred non-routine expense of $0.02 related to legal indemnification and professional fees.
The largest driver was non-routine income of $0.20 related to the Eras divestiture that we announced during the second quarter.
The combination of these factors brings us to $0.47 earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis for the second quarter.
Our second quarter non-GAAP effective tax rate was approximately 36% impacted by several discrete items.
We are maintaining our approximate 30% non-GAAP effective tax rate assumption for the full year but realize there could be upward pressure based on where we're at year-to-date.
Moving on to cash flow on Slide 25.
Our free cash flow results reflect the $71 million free cash used which increased approximately $30 million from the same period last year.
This is a result of increased working capital needs as we've grown our business in the quarter and approximately $30 million in severance payments spread equally over the first half primarily related to the VERP.
Partially offsetting these items was an improvement in net income.
Turning to Slide 26 DSO during the quarter is 59 days flat from the same period last year.
Looking at Slide 27 inventory turns were down slightly at 4.6 turns compared to the second quarter 2013 of 4.9 turns as we build inventory to meet second half deliveries.
Net debt on Slide 28 for the period was $178 million a $21 million increase from the prior-year period.
Resulting in a net debt to capital ratio of 15% an increase of approximately 3 percentage points.
Looking at our outlook on Slide 29 the second quarter exceeded our internal expectations.
We continue to be encouraged by the strong growth in orders in many of the regions driving increased order backlog.
Additionally as previously discussed we will be ramping up our reinvestments in the business this year.
Therefore we are maintaining our revenue guidance to be up in the mid-single digits and non-GAAP EPS guidance of $1.65 to $1.85.
As a reminder this includes the adverse impact of the valuation of the Venezuelan bolivar of approximately $0.12 and an additional $0.03 related to the divestiture of Eras.
The Cryptera acquisition is expected to be neutral to earnings after integration costs in 2014.
We expect restructuring charges and non-routine expenses to be in the $0.25 to $0.30 range excluding the $0.20 gain on the sale of the Eras subsidiary.
As previously highlighted our full year non-GAAP effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 30% but we're seeing some upward pressure on the rate.
We're maintaining our free cash flow outlook for the year of $80 million to $100 million this includes an approximate $35 million increase in our capital expenditures as we make strategic reinvestments in our business.
In closing we have started off the first half of the year stronger than expected focusing on continuous improvements to maintain and strengthen our control environment while operationally reducing our costs and improving our working capital efficiencies.
We are actively working to remediate our material weaknesses in Brazil and India and have made solid progress still expecting to have both remediated during the year.
The company is beginning to demonstrate tangible results from our turnaround efforts.
However it is still early in the process and we will fully ramp up the appropriate reinvestments in the second half to position the company for long-term growth.
With that I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Paul Coster JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
Clearly things have changed a little bit on the financial services front.
It wasn't so long ago that you felt that branch transformation was still a little bit premature.
Because the customers would take a while to benefit from the implementation of technology -- they had for instance sort of long leases that they couldn't break.
But it sounds like things have changed.
So I'm just wondering why that's starting to power through? And -- well I'll save my second question.
Paul this is Andy.
It's actually mapping out just like we told you.
It's starting to pick up on the order side.
Most of the activities in branch transformation is still in POCs in showcase branches branch of the future deployments of our OT customers.
So it's not that much of a revenue tailwind at this point in time.
But we said at the last call that activity and conversations and Diebold mine shares increasing that trend continues down that path.
We start to see mine share now translating into orders which eventually will translate of course into revenues.
It's going to be a steady increase over the next years to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I got 2 quick questions one is how long does it take for orders to translate into revenues generally for you by region? And one last question which is in emerging markets.
You clearly you have low margins on the product sales.
Is there anything you can do to improve the margins in those regions for the [indiscernible] in particular? Let me start on deal velocity.
Apparently there's a wide range depending which country which channel whether they're are services-led or whether they're more product shipments.
If you were to draw a distribution curve I'd say the majority of the deals probably revenue within a 6-month time window but some of them grow as fast as 3 and others can drag out as long as 9- or 12-month.
Yes.
On the cost side Paul we're obviously -- we continue to look at everything we can do to maximize our cost from a supply chain standpoint.
We look to localize as much as possible to eliminate currency risk.
But I would say this is an area of constant focus for the company as we look to improve on our long-term margin trajectory on the product side.
And we'll take our next question from Gil Luria Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> The Windows 7 upgrade seems to be kicking in in terms of creating a tailwind for you.
What's the trajectory of that cycle? Is that -- how many quarters do you expect that to last? When do you expect that to peak and then why is it not translating into higher-product margins for you? Are you just capturing it more on the service line? Gil there's a few aspects.
So first of all the curve goes as we discussed earlier.
We always said this would be more a second half revenue event.
So orders are coming in strong as we speak.
The orders are going to revenue probably in the -- I'd say the peak is going to be in the Q4 Q1-ish time frame.
You know that the Microsoft extended deadline runs out in April.
I would expect some mad scramble on -- from some customers to do it last minute.
And -- but there you got your revenue curve.
From a margin point of view while these deals are very margin accretive keep in mind that the relative size of the deal comparison to everything else that we do in absolute numbers is a lot smaller.
So the overall pull on the margins is somewhat muted by sheer size.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of your Brazil business could you help us separate kind of the 3 businesses there in terms of what's going on with the Financial Self-Services versus the lottery versus the PC business.
Is the PC business is that spike over and you'll be comping in next year? Is the lottery business rolled out? Is it unusually a big year? And then where are we on the ATM business? Yes Gil just to break it down the major pieces here the PC/IT-related equipment that really has peaked.
There will be a small amount of activity in the third and fourth quarter but not big numbers to come there.
The biggest piece of the Brazil Other is going to be in the lottery segment and expect the full year on that to be approximately $65 million -- $65 million to $70 million in total revenue on that with a larger portion coming through in the third quarter.
And then lastly when we look at the FSS business.
We've talked about 2 really large deals that we've got that we've been delivering on the first which has been coming through the P&amp;L over the last several quarters is with CAF Caixa Economica Federal and that will continue through the third quarter and really be wrapped up this year.
The other large tender has been pushing out a little bit just as they finalize some of the branch deployment schedules and so expect that to really be -- really I'd say pickup full speed in the fourth quarter in some of that carry into the first half of 2015.
Research Division</strong> Any other large ATM orders this year in Brazil that could fuel next year? Nothing that we want to speak to at this time but there's nothing significant on the radar screen.
I would remind everyone if you look at where you're at in Brazil with large governments banks and with elections coming up that's really going to close down a lot of activity that we would typically see over the next couple of months and I don't expect that to really pick up really in the last few elections and some of that gets settled out.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Summerville KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
First how much Brazil revenue and earnings goes away in 2015 relative to 2014 as you're looking at it at this point with respect to that Other category? Matt I would just look at the -- really at the big PC sales we have in the first half so call that approximately $90 million of revenue and look at the bulk of the lottery based on what we have in front of us right now and so probably about $50 million that falls out.
So from the revenue standpoint just at the high level comparing to '15 I would say it is about $150 million that falls out.
Obviously it's still a lot to go in 2014 and we'll see how our activity plays out but that high-level on the revenue side and then apply approximately again I don't have the exact numbers in front of me but say a 10% to 15% margin pull through on that and that gives a rough order of magnitude.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate the granularity there.
And then second is I want to talk a little bit about the tax strategy.
The volatility in you non-GAAP rate over the last couple of years is unlike any other name I follow.
So can you go into a little more detail around the push and pull there and why or perhaps it's not but why it should smooth out at some point here? Yes Matt.
I'm not going to go back through every year but if you look at 2013 first look at the size of our earnings and the distribution of our earnings.
And I would say one of the keys to having a more stable rate is to have stable geographic revenue pull-through and margin pull-through and when you're in a transition and when you're going through some of the major items that we are facing in 2013 you saw some of that volatility in the rate.
And so when you look at the first half of 2014 the earnings are still relatively small so if you have a one-off discrete item that comes through and/or the small shift in geographic income which again as you understand not all revenue and profits created equal when it comes to the tax impact on that we still see a little bit of that volatility.
Sitting where we're at today we would typically want to narrow the range in the full year but looking at where we've been out with the tax rate it's caused a little bit of that volatility.
And we're doing everything we can to manage that and improve upon that and really in my mind that starts with improving the underlying fundamentals in all of our businesses improving and having steady stabilized profit that's going to drive that in the future.
But we're absolutely looking to manage that provide appropriate clarity on what we see coming through and build that into the ranges that we're providing externally.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick follow-up.
Andy can you maybe talk about EMEA a little bit and what you attribute the recent success you've had there in terms of share gains albeit off a lower base? But you're clearly gaining share in EMEA.
Matt it's actually Europe for me has been and continues to be the microcosm of what we want Diebold to be going forward.
They were clearly a drag to the P&amp;L a few years ago.
They've gone through their restructuring efforts first they've done their streamlining first.
And as part of that we also stepped away from a Thou must be in every country logic and focused on target accounts.
And that strategy proves out to be extremely successful.
So we're laser beam-focused on the large names in the U.K.
on the large names in Spain and in every one of those accounts where we focus our energy we are starting to make very solid progress.
In addition if you were to look at the research reports you'll see that due to the absence of the equivalent of an ADA compliance ruling especially in the U.K.
the U.K.
probably has the most mature installed base of any country in the world.
So this is a -- you have a pure technology upgrade cycle there; not superimposed by government regulations.
Add branch transformation and next-gen technology to it and all of a sudden the playing field gets releveled which of course gives a company like Diebold an opportunity to reenter and to show our innovative solutions and to take part in the race and so far with quite good starting positions.
We'll take our next question from Matt Lipton Autonomous Research.
I think Andy it was really interesting to see what's happening with software in Diebold you just hired a new head it sounds like CapEx is increasing.
So I'm just curious to get some more thoughts on where that software spending is targeted? Is it the Electronic Security or more so the FSS; and as we think about branch transformation these smarter ATMs that have more hardware functionality how important is it that the software goes hand-in-hand with the machine and therefore a bank might have to think about their conversation with Diebold a little differently than they have in the past? Given my background I still translate our industry back into IT speak and for me an ATM in an IT world will be an appliance.
It's a purpose-built hardware but the hardware continues to commodit-ize and to lose its factor as a differentiator on top of the hardware you got a software stack sitting and the software stack continues to increase in importance and will of course drive the solutions and the user interface; the security that we can offer to our client.
And then you add a very large services offering around it to make sure that you can take this technology to market.
And that's why we're saying we want to be a services-led software-enabled company.
That's why we're investing and Alan got a lot of the pedigree.
He's been in this environment.
He helped business transform from a hardware-centric to a more software-centric view and that was very appealing when we talked with him.
And I expect him to do similar work here at Diebold and help us to accelerate down that path.
And by the way that logic is applicable to both FSS as well as Electronic Security.
If you take a look at what we've done at Electronic Security for instance on the SecureStat side which was software IP to differentiate Diebold I mean we're pushing the 600 user mark as of the end of Q2 with very rapid growth rates.
And that will also be an area where we continue to invest.
That's great.
And then just curious we get a little bit of update on if you're having any more outsourcing discussions similar to what happened with TD a few years ago.
I mean it seems that there could be continued fee pressure on banks here from some potential rulings from regulatory bodies.
Are you seeing an -- like an increasing inbound on outsourcing arrangements or really no update there? Think about it in all terms of moving up the stack on the services side.
So professional services managed services and then outsourcing there can be partial outsourcing to all the way of full outsourcing.
And I can tell you the amount of conversations we're having is increasing quarter over quarter over quarter.
Now having said that sales cycles in the services industry is anywhere between 12 to 24 months.
These are not decisions that either party would rush into.
There's a lot of getting to know each other making sure the business cases are accretive for both players scenarios going on.
So this is not a fast-moving part of the dial.
But if I look at our newly rolled out Salesforce.com pipeline portfolio I can see our services offerings in the pipeline ramp up at a steady pace.
And we'll take our next question from Justin Bergner Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> My first question relates to working capital.
I just wanted to dig in there a bit more.
I noticed that each of the inventories and the accounts receivable have sort of increased from -- by about $100 million from the year-end number.
I can sort of attribute 1/3 of that to maybe perhaps the low normal year-end levels and another 1/3 of that perhaps in the accounts receivable to the large Brazilian sales and in the case of inventory to start preparing for what's normally a stronger second half.
Is that the right way to look at the change in working capital? And if so sort of what explains the remainder of the increase? You have the right pieces there.
I mean there's always going to be on the AR side specifically a little bit of that geographic mix payment terms are not the same across all geographies but when you look at the typical seasonal flow you've hit the right points there and again we see a little bit of that build in receivables and if you look at Diebold historically and this industry historically you'll see a significant pay down on that as we ramp in the second third quarter and ultimately peak with revenue in the fourth and those payments come down in the fourth.
The inventory again -- you hit the right point there as well.
The inventory is building really driving the demand that we have here in the third and fourth quarter.
And so what you see right now it's really the finished goods with some of that's in transit inventory and in the factory inventory as well as ramping up to again meet those second half delivery needs.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
But nothing sort of unusual other accounts receivable or inventory fronts.
No no.
If you look at the DSO performance it's in line with historical trends and nothing out of the ordinary there.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
My second unrelated question.
A bit different.
If during your transformation Diebold were to receive sort of external interest in the company perhaps by like a large software firm how would Diebold treat such interest? It's just if you -- I mean first of all we take all conversations serious.
Whatever has been brought to us on any opportunity but I'm not quite sure I'm getting all of the angles that you're trying to get to.
Inc.</strong> No if a large software company were interested in taking a look at acquiring a company like Diebold I realize you're sort of in the early stages of your transformation.
Is the company sort of focused on sort of completing the multi-year transformation or would potential external interest be seriously considered at this point? Look that's an easy thing.
My job is to drive the turnaround of the company together with Chris and the complete management team.
And to make sure we satisfy our customers our shareholders as well as ultimately all the people that work for us.
Now if in that process at any given point of time someone thinks that we might be a good adds to their portfolio I have a fiduciary responsibility to take any of those conversations a serious and if its meaningful and mindful to the board then we'll take it from there.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Kessler Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> First can we just drill down a little bit more on EMEA.
You've talked about the U.K.
and you've talked about Spain and actually the way it fits perfectly into your restructuring plans.
Can you expand that to some of the other strong areas that you've had in EMEA? You've particularly mentioned earlier on the some of the Gulf states and I'm wondering -- I'm just wondering how -- it's still small but can EMEA become the size of let's say Asia Pacific; given how young or in some sense excuse me how old some of the stuff is in EMEA isn't there a lot of opportunity relative to perhaps a couple of the other regions that you have for a total change given that there's potential for total change out? Jeff those are all good questions and I think you're on the right track here.
First of all we feel very good about the momentum that we've established.
If you look at EMEA our focus clearly is Western Europe it's the Middle East we've got some nice orders especially from Saudi in the first half of the year as well as Africa and South Africa has been a Diebold stronghold and it continues to do so and there's also an opportunity as the South African Banks go north to go with them.
Now we will continue to invest especially in the Middle East and Africa region.
If you go back the gentleman that we've asked to lead our EMEA operation Bassem he actually has this as his background in his past.
So that was a very deliberate choice to make sure we get some more local expertise onto the European team.
And we will continue to be very account-centric about our growth going forward and making sure we do this in a profitable digestible and also in a very ethical way going forward especially as we've reached out into the African nations.
Inc.</strong> Obviously country-by-country there's going to be countries in Europe where either regulations or just the way you do business or local competition is going to make it hard for you to really become profitable unless you lower prices.
I'm assuming that you are going to focus on those countries where you have the best opportunity.
Jeff the good news is when you grow from a small base I don't have to defend the position in any given market.
We will be very smart about target identification and where we're going.
And we will continue down that path.
Our objectives not just for Europe but for around the globe is profitable growth.
We never go for revenue for revenues sake we're going for opportunities that make good business sense either in the near-term or in the mid-term over the life of the contract.
LLC</strong> Okay.
A quick second follow-up question on the software side.
You've talked about the increased use of putting -- essentially putting the stack on top of the appliance and then adding services around that.
When you look at the Electronic Security side of the business you've got a SecureStat platform that's been set up.
Is there the capability ultimately of integrating some of the Security software capabilities that you have on the Electronic Security side with the financial side? Or are they going to continue simply to go their separate ways given the fact that you want to -- you do want to become more broad-based? On the other hand you seem to have the capability at this point in time to integrate some of the platform capabilities from both sides to bring to bear on the financial area that you -- that's still 50% of your business in Security.
You must have been sitting in one of our conference rooms Jeff.
LLC</strong> You want to hire me as a consultant? I'll do it.
Cross-pollination between those 2 areas is one of the most heavily discussed and investigated topics we have within Diebold.
You can even attribute part of our service gross margin improvements to that fact as outside of the large metropolitan areas in the U.S.
where we've gotten really good and really smart at cross training and cross-utilizing service technicians.
So while SecureStat the way it's written would not lend itself to run as an app on an ATM the logic behind it the thought process behind it is very much applicable.
And we do a lot of intellectual learning from one side of the house to the other.
The other thing that we start to see especially as we get into the branch transformation environment consumer retail is usually a little bit more innovative and a little ahead on the use of technology curve versus retail banking.
So in many cases there are use cases that we see for instance on the consumer side on the retail side of Electronic Security that we're actually bringing to the financial institutions by saying "You might want take a look at what so and so does in the following industry because it's actually addressing a similar problem that you want to do with your branch of the future and you might benefit from that." So a lot of conversations going on.
This is why we are excited of having both pieces of the business in our portfolio and we'll continue to invest into both sides of the house.
LLC</strong> Yes.
And I'm assuming this also involves taking unstructured and structured data and trying to make sense of it for both sides for both your financial and your retail -- and retail folks? Absolutely.
We'll take our next call from Meghna Ladha Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just 2 quick questions for Chris.
Chris Brazil Other segment the revenue came in well above our estimates this quarter.
I may have missed this but can you give more color as to what drove the upside there this quarter and how we should think about growth in the second half? Yes within the quarter about 2/3 of the revenue in Brazil Other was attributed to the lottery.
And again we announced that our order I believe in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And so it was the initial deliveries on that order that drove the biggest piece.
And what was your follow-up question with regards to the full year? LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes how should we think about growth in the second half? Yes.
The second half in the Brazil or in the Brazil Other again I think the total overall lottery right now I would estimate to be around $65 million for the full year.
And probably another roughly $15 million $20 million coming through on the IT-related equipment side and that would be the biggest pieces that we would see right now.
It's going to tail off over the next couple of quarters based on what we can see right now.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then given that you're investing more in the business in the second half how should we think about the EPS progression next couple of quarters? I would say the reinvestments right now I mean I would say they'll peak a little bit more in the fourth quarter based on what we're seeing.
And so it's going to increase here over the next couple of months.
Again as we talked about the savings are fairly equally distributed over the quarters and then the reinvest is going to ramp and so I would think about it in those terms.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Paul Coster JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that you're reinvesting in the second half and I can see why that would cause operating expenses to increase a tad.
But what I didn't quite get was your comment around increasing cost of goods sold? I may have misheard.
Can you just sort of revisit that? It's in your opening remarks Andy? Let me start and Chris will take you through the numbers.
But if you look at the areas where we're investing one of the -- there's 2 main items in there especially the IT transformation is also of course the back-office transformation as part of our foundational work for our service transformation.
And these areas do not only show up on the OpEx side of the house.
If actions are service-related if we're introducing service software -- and we said publicly a few months back that one of the elements of our IT turnaround is that we're going to upgrade the company to Diebold for services -- these are discrete investments and those will be running through the P&amp;L on the cost of sales line versus the OpEx line.
Yes.
And then just to add to what Andy talked about and in addition to that on the service costs of sales area where we're seeing growth and in some of the markets we're going to have to expand our overall service infrastructure and service organization.
So you will see some of that come through in those regards with the additional service cost of sales.
And we have no further questions in our queue at this time.
Thank you Adam.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call this morning.
And before we go just one final announcement.
We will be holding our annual Investor Day on December 10 in New York City.
So please look for a Save the Date e-mail in the coming weeks.
As always if you have follow-up questions please reach out to myself or Jamie Finefrock directly.
Thanks again.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to Diebold Incorporated's Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Diebold's third quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO and Chris Chapman Senior Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the investor page of our website.
Andy and Chris will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as of past calls it's important to note that we are excluding certain restructuring charges and non-routine expenses from our non-GAAP financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Also as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is only current as of October 30 2014 and subsequent events may render the information in the replay out of date.
Finally I did want to quickly announce that we will be holding our Analyst Day in New York on December 10.
We will be providing additional details around our Diebold 2.0 turnaround program as well as our outlook for 2015.
Please feel free to reach out to our Investor Relations team for more information.
And now with opening remarks I'll turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today as we discuss our results for the third quarter.
As usual there are several items I will be covering today: First I'll provide key takeaways from our strong third quarter; second a regional update; third an update on our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy; and finally our outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Now let's discuss the key takeaways from the quarter on slide 7.
This was another solid quarter for Diebold as we execute on our turnaround strategy and continue to see results from our transformation efforts.
Taking a closer look at the performance I was pleased with healthy revenue growth of 9% year-over-year; each of our lines of business grew in the quarter with financial self-service up 5% and security of around 3%.
Brazil others was also a strong contributor.
Our financial self-service business continues to perform well particularly in EMEA where we have been able to grow above the market rates.
Gross margin performance was strong due to a favorable geographic and customer mix in the quarter combined with the benefits of our prior restructuring activities.
Our cost savings initiative and subsequent reinvestments are tracking in line with our expectations.
As we have discussed before we are investing in IT and back office transformation service infrastructure R&amp;D and sales and marketing.
Heading into the fourth quarter we have already achieved our 2014 full year goal of $25 million in net savings.
Outside of the financial results we continue to generate positive operating momentum.
We had a number of new customer wins related to branch transformation managed in professional services as well as electronic security on which I will elaborate more later.
Bottom-line we are winning in our markets and growing presence.
We remain keenly focused on providing our customer superior solutions that help increase efficiency and improve security supported by an active R&amp;D pipeline.
Over the next several months we will be moving a number of new solutions out of our labs and into the shop window.
Due to our strong performance year-to-date combined with our fourth quarter outlook we now expect full year revenue to be up approximately 7%.
We’re also narrowing our 2014 non-GAAP EPS guidance range to a $1.70 to a $1.80 which includes an increase in our expected full year non-GAAP tax rate.
Chris will go into greater detail on the components later in the call.
Heading into the fourth quarter we are right where we wanted to be and have been able to absorb a number of events such as Venezuela currency devaluation the divestiture of the ERAS subsidiary and a higher full year tax rate.
We’re positioned to live our earnings within the original earnings guidance that we provided last year.
We continue to subscribe to our philosophy that we say what we’re going to do and then do what we say.
Now let's talk about order activity in our regions on Slide 8.
Overall as a company we had a reasonable order entry in the quarter while total orders for both product and services in the third quarter were down 7% this was primarily driven by tough comps in Brazil.
Excluding Brazil financial self-service and security were up in the low single-digits.
In North America total orders for both product and services increased roughly 3%.
In financial self-service in North America total orders increased 2% as we continue to see Window 7 and branch transformation activity ramping up in North America particularly in the regional bank space.
Our electronic security business in North America continued its double-digit growth rate with another strong quarter of order activity.
As we’ve highlighted in the past this growth is tempered by the decline in our physical security business which resulted in total security orders up about 3%.
Moving to Asia Pacific total orders increased 8% for the quarter and similarly on constant currency basis with strength in China partially offset by a decline in India.
In EMEA total orders were down 16% primarily due to tough year-over-year comps in the third quarter of 2013 good orders grew 30%.
Having said that year-to-date total orders are up some 20% in this region as we continue to expand our footprint in major accounts.
In North America total orders for the quarter were up 11% Mexico and Peru were particularly strong which helped this region achieve a near record level of order entry for a single quarter.
In Brazil orders for the quarter decreased about 45% affected by the lumpy nature of the Brazil other business.
Going forward we will see a similar effect on the revenue side as 2014 results will create tough comps in 2015.
Looking at our total business for the quarter on Slide 9 we continue our focus on becoming services-led software enabled company.
Services and software revenue continue to make up the majority of our total revenue year-to-date at 56%.
Moving to Slide 10 let's discuss our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy and a few key initiatives as it relates to our eight point program.
First in terms of establishing a competitive cost structure we took another step towards our mid-term goal of the fame in service gross margin level above 30% annually as we continue to improve workforce utilization and service tools.
Our CIO team it continues to build out global infrastructure for our back office transformation.
We have set up centers of excellence in each geography and are transitioning work strengths to our counterparts at Accenture.
We remain on track with internal expectations and will be focusing on fully implementing this relationship in 2015.
Having said this you will see in Chris’ comments that the cost of this and other transformation activities are beginning to manifest themselves as we indicated on our last call.
Second we drove a number of innovative customer solutions during the quarter.
As you may have seen we recently announced our new 5500 Series of cash dispensers our first all new product line in a number of years.
This solution was developed in collaboration with our global customers and was funded by our R&amp;D reinvestments.
Unveiled in London earlier this month the 5500 is geared towards the mass market in key international regions and provides a lower total cost of ownership for the ATM deployer.
In addition the 5500 features the ActiveEdge secure card reader we recently introduced.
We will be following this up with several new solution launches in the coming months.
Going forward bringing more innovation to the market in a continued manner is an important part of our turnaround strategy.
Our branch transformation offering continues to gain traction with global national and regional accounts.
During this earning season numerous large banks highlighted the need to invest in branch transformation technology to increase efficiency.
We continue to make inroads with our pilot program and secure several wins within the regional banks base a few of which we announced during the third quarter.
However I will remind you that we envisioned a broad adoption of this technology will take place overtime.
So the tailwind from branch transformation should strengthen in 2015 and well into 2016.
In a security business we rolled out and enhanced SecureStat portal that improves efficiency and security for our customers.
This 2013 we have added around 700 users to our SecureStat platform.
In addition we have essentially completed the expansion of our electronic security sales force.
This now brings our ES sales force to approximately 130 sales executives.
We believe these enhancements will help continue to drive the momentum we’ve been generating in our electronic security business.
In regards to pull the leveraging services and software we were able to announce two meaningful wins in the quarter.
Belgium post has implemented our multi-vendor software as well as outsources the management of its entire fleet of ATMs to Diebold.
As a result of combining Diebold software and services we are able to significantly reduce complexity and improve the performance of Belgium post ATM network.
We also announced an extensive follow-on agreement to update the ATM fleet for Bankia one of Spain’s top financial institutions to a comprehensive managed services project.
These are just two examples how we have led with services and software to grow our share by offering an integrated solution to our customers.
To further illustrate this point in our core financial service space.
Service revenue outpaced the growth and the product category by a 2:1 ratio for the quarter.
In conclusion I am pleased to have another solid quarter in the books and feel good about the achievements we are reaching in our Diebold 2.0 transformation.
We are a company in transformation.
We are not fully transformed.
A lot of heavy listing is still in front of us.
We are focused on consistent execution and continuing to move our company in the right direction.
We are meeting our near term objectives and remain confident on our long-term prospect.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Chris for more details on our financial performance.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
I will start off by walking through our third quarter financial performance and then provide an update on our 2014 revenue earnings and free cash flow outlook now to review our financial results.
Turning to slide 15 total revenue for the quarter increased approximately 9% on the GAAP and constant currency basis.
As a result of increased volume across all regions expect Latin America which was down slightly due to a decline in the security business as I noted in the second quarter call we expect our Brazil other business which consists of lottery IT and election solutions to be a strong contributor for a revenue growth for the full year.
As we move to slide 16 financial self-service revenue was up 5% on both a GAAP and constant currency basis with growth in Asia Pacific and EMEA partially offset by a decrease in Brazil.
As we have noted EMEA continues to perform especially well posting solid revenue growth over the prior year.
In Brazil the decline was driven by lower volume due to timing based on customer delivery expectations.
Total security revenue on slide 17 was up approximately 3% compared with the prior year period.
Electronic security grew 14% driven by strong growth in North America offsetting this increase was a 12% decline in our physical security business.
Looking at slide 18 Brazil other was up $34 million mostly driven by deliver on the large lottery order placed in 2013.
On slide 19 gross margin for the quarter improved 1.3 percentage points to 26.2 %.
This was driven by a solid improvement in service gross margin which increased 1.4 percentage points to 30.4%.
This improvement reflects the continued benefits of our service transformation efforts across the globe.
As I noted last quarter some of our reinvestment are being charged to service cost of sales as we focused on improving our systems and expanding our infrastructure to support our growth and global service transformation efforts.
Therefore we expect our service gross margin to finish the year at approximately 30%.
Product gross margin increased 1.9% percentage points to 21.2%.
The increase was primarily the result of favorable geographic and products mix primarily its high in the U.S regional bank market EMEA and Latin America.
Moving on to slide 20 total operating expenses was 19.5% of revenue compared with 18.1% in the prior year period representing an increase of $22.6 million.
During the third quarter increased volume grew higher selling expense as well as investments we have made in sales and marketing.
In addition as Andy highlighted we continue to make investments in our transformation such as IT back office transformation and R&amp;D as we work to bring a pipeline of new solutions to the market over the next several months.
Turning the slide 21 year-to-date we’ve realized our plan $25 million in net savings.
As we highlighted during our last call our gross savings are relatively equally distributed over the quarters.
However the majority of our reinvestments impacted our P&amp;L in the second half of the year.
As you can see the increase in our third quarter operating expense reflect this impact bringing our year-to-date savings to $45 million in our year-to-date reinvestment to $20 million.
Midterm these investments and innovation IT infrastructure back office transformation service sales and marketing will continue improve our internal controls and processes reduce our costs and position us for growth.
Turning to Slide 22 non-GAAP operating margin in the third quarter decreased 10 basis points to 6.7%.
We’ve been able to fund our reinvestments this year through our improved operating performance and transformation efforts.
Looking at operating profit by segment on Slide 23 all regions improved from third quarter of 2013.
The growth in North America is directly related to increase volumes in the regional bank market and growth in the FSS service business.
Asia Pacific benefitted from favorable country mix within the region.
The increase in EMEA is a result of our prior restructuring efforts in the region coupled with strong growth from our targeted account strategy.
And higher volume in Mexico drove the majority of the improvement in Latin America.
The decrease in the corporate segment reflects the business reinvestments we’ve been highlighting on the call.
EPS on a non-GAAP basis was $0.54 during the quarter.
This excludes restructuring charges of $0.01 as well as non-routine expense of $0.03 related to legal indemnification and professional fees.
We’re also excluding a $0.01 tax benefit associated with our product foreign cash repatriation.
Our third quarter non-GAAP effective tax rate was approximately 29% which brings our year-to-date non-GAAP effective tax rate to 32.8%.
Moving on to free cash flow on slide 25 our free cash flow results reflected $34 million free cash used which increased $31 million from the same period last year.
This is a result of increased working capital needs as we’ve grown our business in the quarter and are building inventory to meet delivery commitments during the fourth quarter and the first quarter of 2015.
Turning to slide 26 DSO increased 5 days over the prior year.
Primarily as a result of strong revenue in September in geographic mix primarily associated with Asia Pacific.
Looking at slide 27 inventory turns were down slightly at 4.4 turns as a result of higher finished goods inventory in transit to support near-term deliveries.
Net debt on slide 28 for the period was $265 million an approximate $80 million increase from the prior year period resulting in a net debt-to-capital ratio of 21% an increase of six percentage points.
And now I am going to take a moment to update you on a few additional items.
First our team has remediated our material weakness related to controls over Brazil indirect taxes and communication and is focused on remaining material weakness in India.
The company is continuing to strengthen its control environment with investments in our systems processes and people.
Along those lines we recently attracted and hire two new leaders in the finance organization.
Henry Orphys has joined Diebold to lead our global tax function and Dave Kuhl to lead our global treasury activities.
Henry comes to Diebold from KBR where he served as Vice President of Tax and also spent his career in the tax organizations at several large global companies including Intel where he spent more than a decade.
Dave most recently served as Vice President of Finance at Ingersoll Rand and held treasury and finance leadership roles at American Standard DuPont and Exxon.
Both men have outstanding experience operating and complex multinational business environments.
And we will leverage that experience as we grow the company.
Finally the company renewed its credit facility during the quarter which is now extended to August 2019.
The facility has increased from $500 million to $520 million with no changes to debt covenants.
Looking at our outlook on slide 29 as Andy mentioned earlier in the call we’re increasing our revenue growth expectations for the year to approximately 7%.
This is supported by our strong backlog which grew year-over-year by approximately 20%.
Driving part of the increase in revenue guidance is activity in Brazil other where we have received extensions to previous orders in early October for both lottery and IT related equipment.
Given the short cycle time deliver on these orders we took a position on the necessary inventory in the third quarter.
We are narrowing our non-GAAP EPS guidance to a $1.70 to $1.80 inclusive of an increase on our full year non-GAAP tax rate assumption.
As noted on the second quarter call there was pressure on our non-GAAP effective tax rate and the year-to-date effective tax rate is now at 32.8%.
Based on better visibility to our full year mix of income and discrete tax items we now expect our full year non-GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 32%.
As a reminder our full year earnings guidance includes the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar of approximately $0.12 and in additional $0.03 related to the divestiture of ERAS.
We expect restructuring charges in non-routine expense to be $0.21 to $0.23 range excluding the $0.19 gain on the sale of our ERAS subsidiary.
We’re maintaining our free cash flow outlook for the year of $80 million to $100 million; this includes an approximate $25 million increase in our capital expenditure as we make strategic reinvestments in our business.
Year-to-date we have to consistently execute remaining in steadfast and our focus on continuous improvements to maintain and strengthen our control environment while operational reducing our costs and improving our working capital efficiencies.
As you can see the company is beginning to demonstrate tangible results from our turnaround effort.
We have strategically ramped up the appropriately investments in the third quarter as we lay the foundation for long term profitable growth.
With that I’ll open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to our first question from Gil Luria of Wedbush Securities.
Yes thanks for taking my question if you wouldn’t going through the detail for Brazil other revenue and profit for this year and I know you are not going to provide 2015 guidance but how much of that do you expect to fall off next year.
So we know how to properly model next year at least in that regard.
That seems to be a very big factor.
Gross margin Gil this is Chris just to break down the major pieces of Brazil others so year to date the Brazil other is at approximately $175 million revenue I expect that to be around $220 million on the full year the major pieces of that been around $100 million in lottery and $120 million in the IT related equipment.
So it’s about a $40 million increase from where we were at on the last call.
And so if you think about that moving into 2015 I would expect that to fall off a little bit North of the $150 million we talked about before likely closer to $170 million fall off.
But again I would know and you can see it here in the third quarter as well that’s a little bit of a lumpy business going forward to model for 2015.
I would expect that to be approximately $50 million if you are looking at the go forward estimates.
That comes in at a pretty high profitability level if I recall so that 15% and that’s about a $0.30 earning that we have this year that’s not going to come back next year.
Is that right? Both of those product lines are accreted equal I would say it’s somewhere between 10% to 15% and again you’ve got a lot of factors in terms of timing of when you purchase the inventory potential currency headwinds a kick in that but I would say if you model little bit South of that closer to a 10% blended drop rate that’s probably a little more appropriate.
Got it.
And then wanted to ask about new 5500 line you are saying first new product line in the long time.
What kind of advantages you start about lower total customer ownership for the customer.
What kind of a financial advantages overtime that will it offer Diebold in terms of the cost of maintenance and then gross margin.
Gil this is Andy.
Good morning a few things that will make this a very important milestone for the company it’s actually the first time that we developed a product for the international market.
In the past the company used a U.S and that adopted it to international needs.
This time put it the other way around.
So therefore it’s you towards the customers it will help the customers to drive it lower total cost of ownership because we’ve taken all the Green ATM capabilities that we’ve already released with our India machine a few months back and now they are standard for the complete international market product line.
If you are looking for the Diebold’s benefits just to put it for you in terms of complexity the product probably has about 30% lower skew number count than its previous model.
Now you think of course you’ve got to wrap them out you got to do make sure you get the volume you going to switch over factory but in the long run this will drive again the idea of efficiency productivity and then the last point is which is also a first for us we’ve put a lot of money on the R&amp;D side into the service ability of the machine which will help us to continue to drive our services focus in the regions and which will also help us to generate the service margins in North of 30%.
And we’ll move on to our next question from Kartik Mehta of Northcoast Research.
Hey good morning.
Andy you talked about strength in North America and I think you said the regional bank market or maybe you said that Chris.
I am wondering if this kind of a one-time strength or based on quarter do you think we’re filing to a point where you could see the regional bank market getting better.
So this years has been good in the regional space and just sit back if you think about our U.S business it’s really the tale of two different stories.
Our national account business is still recovering from the loss of two of the largest banks in the U.S.
that the company had experienced some years back.
Our regional business however has been steadily regaining momentum if you are looking for a magnitude I’d say those on the orders and revenue side year-to-date were like double-digits in that business.
And if I look at our pipeline it is especially encouraging if I look at the new projects around branch transformation innovative ideas managed services a lot of interest in the regional space.
So we’re cautiously optimistic about that segment of the market.
And then Andy EMEA had a very good quarter and if you look within EMEA is there a particular region that’s providing the strength or is it that all the regions are growing about the same for you? Let's go back the biggest key to our restructuring in EMEA that we got out of the - we’re going to be everything for everybody in every country we’re having a very clear major account focus and the good news here is that especially in the UK and Spain which have been able to win new accounts and we see business ramp up.
While the markets like in South Africa where we always held a very strong position or in France our business continues to run at very high level.
Andy just lastly I know you gave guidance about a year ago.
Since then obviously some good things happen and something’s that you didn’t anticipate have happen.
As you look back now heading into 2015 how do you feel about where Diebold is both from an operational standpoint and management talent standpoint to take you to the next level?  As I said in my conclusion we’re a company in transformation we’re not transformed.
We’ve done a lot of foundational work for the company; we’re getting closer to the end of the crawl space of our turnaround program we’re starting to eye-walk [ph] and that switchover will come and with that earlier around the middle of next year.
So we feel very comfortable and confident with the progress that we’ve made year-to-date we brought some great talent into the company but by the same token we still have a lot of heavy lifting in front of us and we’re not probably back quite contradictory and we got to make sure we continue on our path to execute every quarter and get things done to lay the foundation right for the company and with the solid foundation a lot of good things can happen in the mid to long-term.
(Operator Instructions) and we’ll move on to our next question from Paul Coster of JP Morgan.
Yeah.
Thanks very much for taking the questions.
Andy first on branch transformation obviously it's very much focused on self-servicing side bricks and mortar environment.
Have you seen any sort of adverse on CV and it's really not routinely available are the banks really committed to the - so they still in sort of pilot phase what was your assessment of the transition towards that technology?  That’s a very fair question Paul.
As the underlying driver is the banks are trying to reduce labor cost in their branches while remaining in the neighborhood making sure they can square that equation and doing all of that while keeping a very good customer service.
So the only way you kind of get there is to automation.
So everybody wants to go there everybody is trying to figure out how do I do is and most importantly if I use technology to do this how do I differentiate my offering from the guy down the street.
So we’re seeing a lot of interest a lot of momentum.
But as I said earlier this is not something that’s going to happen overnight this is not a consumer product this is an enterprise solution and it will roll out over the next 10 12 16 quarters and every one of those banks is going at their own pace going at their own deployment rates for the year.
But we see branch transformation to be a solid tailwind for our industry for the next two to three years to come.
Okay.
Just switching to security some of the very impressive job of bringing on the electronic security platform the physical security businesses is declining at a percentage is that an intentional acts for instance are you raising sort of the bar on that business demanding a higher return on investment turning away business in the physical security space?  The electronic security business we are a system integrator we are hardware agonistic and our focus is all around the solution all this is why the secured u is so important because you can connect to our services without having to do a forklift upgrade of our whatever equipment you may have installed we are focusing very much on the profitability of those orders we don’t grow our business for revenue sake.
And the other things as we see a lot of growth in the commercial space so for instance this quarter we were able to land a very meaningful quarter with Sprint which again will drive the ball further down.
Now the physical security side this is a business that is declining at a steady pace but it’s going to the decline is probably going to flatten out as we go forward and it provides a solid base for solutions with the bank especially think around drive up solutions that type of stuff and we’re maintaining this business for as long as we can.
Okay last question on the electronic security side I believe you are still investment mode there when does that business send profitable.
What you think in isolation the sort of operating when it’s reaching the charity? We haven’t disclosed bottom line numbers of that business.
But I can assure you it’s already profitable today and more volume will make it even more attractive to our bottom line.
And we’ll move on to our next question from Justin Bergner of Gabelli &amp; Company.
First question is regarding financial stock service revenue I mean as you think about the tail winds of bank branch transformation and headwinds of may be some windows seven upgrade revenue ceasing into next year.
At what time do you think we’ll start to see acceleration in your financial soft services revenue or order profile?  Short of given guidance for next year.
Take a look at where the market is at that probably most reputable market research Company in the space is RVR.
They are predicting a 4% to 5% unit growth CAGR between 14 and 19 revenue it’s usually probably a point below that because unit count is driven very heavily by growth in the emerging market and our objective is clearly to continue to grow at least at market rate.
Okay that’s helpful.
My second question relates to free cash flow.
It’s seems like the free cash flow outlook is being maintain but there might be some headwinds on the inventory side been offset by slightly lower CapEx I guess is that view correct and then second part of that question is it possible to quantify how much working capital been observed by the higher Brazil other revenue than earlier anticipated?  I’ll take the first part of that Justin and I may have to get back to you on the second part just to quantify that think about that a little bit but your overall assumption is correct if you look at where we were at growing company consumes capital and if you look at our performance in the third quarter from a free cash flow again we had a very strong end of the third quarter from a revenue standpoint and that means some of that revenue you are not going to necessarily collect on and so you going to have a higher receivable balance and as I noted as well.
We’ve taken an inventory position on the Brazil other moving into the fourth quarter and so if you look at the activity that cycle repeats itself going into the end of the year.
I could see it that we may end a little more on the lower end of our free cash flow range but overall I feel very happy with our underlying working capital metrics in that performance and you can match change in what were happening in our free cash flow is really just driven by the demand and the business and to your last part of that question that’s probably about if you look at the Brazil other as we head into the fourth quarter the total impact of that probably close to 30 million approximately as what we’re carry into that and so again the timing of that revenue and moving that inventory will dictate some of that final free cash flow performance for us.
[Operator Instruction].
And we’ll move on to our next question from Matthew Lipton of Autonomous Research.
Hey guys good morning.
A quick question we’re talking about branch earlier transformation earlier and I think it’s pretty obvious that regional banks are still dealing with their real space footprint.
So the orders that you’re seeing like conversations are starting to have - at the high end the in branch kiosk your branch performance series or is it more standard remote positive cash rate yen is maybe with the [indiscernible] account there services and how the software really fits into the conversation is it - the new agilest platform of the card or to looking elsewhere for software and which looking at you on the product side right now?  As probably yes to all three of your questions because there is every one of those regional banks has a different starting point.
The good news is we’re getting questions on all three elements.
The first question is the color replacement and the additional functionality that you can put on the machine which lands themselves more to the higher end of the product portfolio.
You have some of the regionals that have not embrace deposit yet.
So that is going and the agilest software as well as the service offering that we have out there especially in that space are very attractive.
Just think about it we’ve got 22 000 machines under management in North America alone if you take a look the next largest bank network would be Bank of America I think they have roughly 16 000 out there.
So the fact of the matter that we can offer economies of scale to a smaller financial institutions that are at par with the bug guy with a very attractive value proposition and we see many branch transformation conversations started form that angle as well.
So still very much in the conversation they are trying to - people just putting it all different products not necessarily gravitating the one solution go ahead?  The market is so early stage even give a definition out there by the resource guys what all is in branch transformation or not some people define it more loosely than others.
So we’re actually very much looking forward to the research guys defining swim lanes and once those are out we can then start reporting our success in our progress along those swim lane.
But until then it's a fussy picture.
Got it.
And then Chris you didn’t talk about FX at all in the call I am just curious to the 7% given the visibility you have into the business mix from the orders in the fourth quarter.
How much of an FX headwind given where currency is moved in September is contemplated in that guidance in the fourth quarter? Thanks.
There is a small amount of a currency headwind I would say in terms of when we finalize our forecast we did factor in some of the recent movements in the rate but again you’ve seen a little bit more of a pressure specifically in the Brazilian - specifically on the Brazilian real.
Overall when I look at our business from an overall currency standpoint I feel very good about having a nice large global service presence which helps to insulate us from some of those currency movements giving we’ve got the revenue and in our cost of line in the same currency.
So overall right now I would say to the guidance small amount of pressure we’ve had about 25 year-to-date mainly in the FSS base and that’s almost all been between Brazil and India and so those are the major movements we’ve seen so far.
And that conclude today’s question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
John Kristoff.
Actually I think we have one more question it looks like Kim.
We will take this question from Meghna Ladha of Susquehanna International Group.
Thank you.
Thanks for taking my question.
Chris for the gross margin it did improved quite a bit sequentially how much of it was related to Brazil? And directionally how should we think about both the product and services gross margin as we leave 2014? Yeah if you look at the product gross margin first in the quarter that was really driven by the regional bank space in North America along with Europe and Latin America so there is not a lot of Brazil other impact in that when you look at only year-over-year basis.
If you think about our product gross margins on a full year I would model that as approximately 19% given where we’re at on the service side I did outline a little bit on the call year-to-date I think were right at the 30% mark and I expect the full year to end right at that same level.
Thank you.
And now I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
John Kristoff.
Thanks Kim and thank you everyone for joining us on the call this morning.
As always if you have follow-up questions please contact me directly and thanks again for joining us.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to Diebold Incorporated's Fourth Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tanisha.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Diebold's fourth quarter and year-end conference call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Chapman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Andy and Chris will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Before we discuss our results as of past calls it's important to note that we are excluding certain restructuring charges and nonroutine expenses from our non-GAAP financials.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financials please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
Also as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
A replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
For those listening to the replay please keep in mind that the information discussed is only current as of today and subsequent events may render the information and the replay out of date.
And now with opening remarks let me turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks John.
Good morning and welcome.
Thank you for joining the call today as we discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full year.
Let me begin by saying we are pleased to report another strong operational performance.
Our full year 2014 results demonstrate that our company is continuing to execute our transformation strategy and our work is paying off.
A couple of key highlights for the year include growing our bottom line at a healthy multiple or top line.
Total revenue for the year was up 7% gross profit was up 16% and operating profit grew by more than 30%.
This represents more than 4x revenue growth on a percentage basis.
The revenue growth was broad-based with all 3 of our segments FSS security and Brazil Other growing in the year.
Excluding the impact of currency revenue increased 9%.
Margins improved across the board but total gross margins expanding 190 basis points compared with the prior year.
Product margins expanded 140 basis points coming in just above 20% and we were able to grow service margins by 300 basis points resulting in a 30% gross margin.
Also we were able to significantly exceed our free cash flow guidance for the year.
This was a record cash collection quarter for Diebold as the entire organization focused on that effort.
We are proud of the team's work to ensure we more than met our target.
Our free cash flow of $125 million represents over 100% of net operating profit after taxes for the year.
Non-GAAP EPS for the year was $1.73.
This was within our range of expectations.
Throughout 2014 the company was still in the crawl phase of our transformation.
There were a number of challenges we needed to overcome and items to address which impacted earning results.
As we transition to the walk phase at the second half of 2015 our expectation is that most of these sort of things should be behind us.
Looking quickly at the fourth quarter results solid revenue growth and margin performance helped us finish the year strong and positions us well heading into 2015.
We're also encouraged that our product backlog increased 3% on a constant currency basis compared with the prior year.
Looking at our core FSS and security businesses excluding Brazil Other backlog is up 23% year-over-year demonstrating that our core business is strong and growing.
Overall we're pleased with the operational performance we delivered in 2014.
We have stabilized the company improved core operations and are starting to build the foundation for future growth by executing our transformation strategy.
As our employee base around the globe can attest it has been and will be a lot of hard work going forward.
However the euro and real experiencing additional pressure since our Analyst Day in December we believe it is prudent to reflect these factors in our 2015 guidance.
Chris will provide more color on this later in the call but let me emphasize this is solely for FX purposes and our expectation is that our core business will continue to grow on a constant currency basis.
We're working hard to offset these headwinds with our ongoing cost-reduction actions.
Just one of the reasons why we made the announcement in mid-January is we are combining operations in Latin America and Brazil.
Now let's talk about our regional order performance on Slide 8.
In the quarter we were encouraged to see double-digit order growth in Asia Pacific EMEA and Latin America.
In North America total orders declined in the mid-single digit range for the quarter and we were down slightly for the year.
However within that number services and software continued to grow as we gained more traction with our managed services and brand automation offering.
The focus on North America is on improving operational efficiencies moving up the value chain and gaining market share in emerging solutions.
With that in mind we recently attracted a new sales leader to North America Tom Signorello who has a successful track record of driving services and software growth in technology-driven industries.
His experience will help us accelerate our transformation.
Total security orders were down low-single digits in the quarter due to our physical security business.
Electronic Security ended the year up double-digit as we once again grew in the quarter.
We were able to add over 70 new commercial logos in 2014 surpassing the 60 new logos we added in 2013.
Going all the way back to 2012 Electronic Security had shown order growth in essentially every consecutive quarter.
Looking at Asia Pacific.
Total orders increased 12% for the quarter and were up 9% on a full year basis.
In the quarter notable strength in China and India were catalysts for growth.
Looking at India specifically I want to highlight some of the milestones we achieved in the market during the past year.
First we invested in our manufacturing facility to accommodate the increase in demand we've seen in this market.
As a result unit production increased nearly 40% year-over-year and we now have over 50 000 ATMs installed across the country.
Also our service offering our key differentiator which allowed us to significantly increase machines under contract in the managed services business.
India represents an attractive growth market for Diebold and we are encouraged by the opportunities we see to continue to expand our footprint.
Turning to EMEA.
Total orders were up 20% for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
Growth in the quarter was driven primarily by strong order activity in Switzerland and in the U.K.
This is a strong testament to the success of our targeted account strategy in the region that we have highlighted throughout the year.
We have been able to make inroads with new customers and are growing our share of the market.
In Latin America total orders for the quarter were up approximately 10% primarily driven by growth in Columbia Chile and Ecuador.
On a full year basis total orders were up 9% with notable strength seen in Mexico.
Growth for the year was fueled by branch automation efforts with local bank with the increased adoption of cash-recycling technology.
We also made inroads to the Chilean ATM market this year where we were able to secure roughly a 10% share in 2014.
Banks in Latin America are gravitating towards our innovative solution.
There is a clear shift towards branch automation software and services.
Also we are encouraged by the strong demand for our recently launched 5500 series in these regions.
We've expanded our market leadership in Latin America and we are confident the operational changes in the region we announced last month will help accelerate our momentum.
In Brazil total orders reflect the lumpy nature of the Brazil Other business.
However looking at the core FSS business in Brazil for the quarter orders grew 35% compared with prior year period reflecting growth across multiple accounts.
Turning to Slide 9.
We continue to make progress towards becoming a more services-led software-enabled company.
For example we grew value-added services revenue double digits for the year with a number of notable wins such as our recent wins with the Belgian Post.
Most other things has helped expand our service gross margin by 300 basis points to 30%.
Also as Alan Kerr our new Head of Software communicated during Analyst Day we will put more emphasis on our software business in 2015.
As the year progresses we'll be providing more details around our strategy and execution in this area.
Moving to Slide 10.
As discussed our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy there's few key initiatives regarding our 8-point program.
When rolled out the program over a year ago we emphasized that much of our progress would come in form of qualitative business improvements rather than strictly measured throughout our near-term financial statements.
Along those lines we're bringing more innovative solutions to the marketplace.
During the quarter we launched a cardless transaction solution with Banque Internationale in Luxembourg that allows customers to remotely program and withdraw cash using their smartphones.
We think there is a large potential for this technology in our developed markets and opportunities in emerging markets will follow.
Another innovative solution we've recently announced is our antimicrobial touch screen that was developed in partnership with Corning Incorporated.
The Corning Gorilla glass inhibits the growth of bacteria on its surface which is important for touch screen ATMs especially in high-traffic areas like airports since they are universally shared device.
Also we're gaining more traction in the market following the launch of our next-generation ATMs.
For example Regions Bank had an agreement in the quarter for our next-generation terminals to be deployed across their footprint in 2015.
In addition we are making inroads with new logos such as Flagstar Bank and WesBanco both in North America each of which purchased our next-generation ATMs to replace competitive units.
Taken in concert with the other innovation we introduced earlier in the year such as our responsive banking concept ActivEdge ATM card reader and the world's greenest ATM we believe our collaborative approach to innovation is reinforcing our position as a trusted partner in the FSS space.
In regards to establishing a competitive cost structure in generating long-term profitable growth our cost-savings initiative and subsequent reinvestments are tracking in line with our expectations.
As we outlined previously the fourth quarter represented the peak level of our transformation reinvestments.
These reinvestments will remain elevated in the first half of 2015 and then gradually decrease in the second half of the year as we expect to complete our back-office transformation and upgrade to Oracle 12.
These are key milestones in our transition of crawl to walk.
Also as I previously mentioned we recently announced efforts to streamline our operations by combining our Brazil and Latin America businesses.
We've been on a solid growth trajectory in Latin America and I'm confident that Octavio Marquez and his leadership team across the region will help us unlock more opportunities to drive growth improve efficiencies and reduce cost.
In conclusion we delivered strong operating results throughout the year creating a solid springboard for us going forward.
We made meaningful progress against each of the 4 pillars of our transformation: Cost cash talent and growth to build the foundation required to take the company forward.
Throughout 2014 our focus was to deliver consistent execution and one of our main objectives is to carry that discipline into 2015 and beyond.
Similar to many other technology companies though 2015 is starting out with more volatility than many of us would have anticipated due to severe currency fluctuations.
Having said that we remained focused on improving business excellence and delivering bottom line growth each and every year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Chris for more details on our financial performance.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
I will start off by walking through our fourth quarter and full year financial performance and then provide an update on our 2015 revenue earnings and free cash flow outlook.
Starting on Slide 15.
Total revenue for the quarter increased 6% on a GAAP basis and approximately 10% in constant currency seen increases in all regions.
Our financial self-service business was the primary driver of growth in the quarter up approximately 9% in constant currency with strong performance in North America.
The Brazil Other business was also a strong contributor to total revenue growth.
Looking at full year 2014 total revenue increased approximately 7% or 9% adjusted for currency.
We're pleased with the progress we made in our constant currency growth across the majority of our businesses illustrating solid demand in our core markets.
North America revenue was essentially flat with 15% year-over-year growth in Electronic Security.
This was offset by a slight decline in FSS which was impacted by restructuring activities in the first half of the year and improved as the year progressed.
Latin America was down slightly but as Andy highlighted we're pleased with the strong quarter activity and momentum we've seen in that region.
Brazil has solid growth at 34% or 46% on a constant currency basis driven primarily by the Brazil Other business.
EMEA and Asia-Pacific saw solid growth over the prior year up 16% and 4% respectively on a GAAP basis.
Adjusting for currency growth for the full year was 21% in EMEA and 8% in Asia Pacific.
I will provide more details shortly but as we've seen the currency translation impact increased as 2014 progressed and those headwinds have materialized further as we've entered 2015.
As we move to Slide 16 financial self-service revenue for the quarter was up approximately 5% on a GAAP basis with increases in North America and Asia Pacific partially offset by decreases in EMEA and Brazil due to currency.
On a constant currency basis revenue grew 9% with all regions reporting growth in the quarter versus the same period in the prior year.
North America experienced strong double-digit growth with increases in Canada and our regional account business.
In Brazil we had approximately 5% growth adjusting for currency driven by the delivery of orders we have highlighted on previous calls.
For the full year financial self-service revenue increased 4% on a constant currency basis.
The increase is primarily attributable to the growth in EMEA and Asia-Pacific partially offset with decreased volume in Brazil North America national accounts give a tough comp with 2013.
Total revenue on Slide 17 for the quarter was down approximately 2% compared with the prior year period.
Increase of approximately 6% in Electronic Security was offset by a 14% decline in our physical security business.
Looking at the full year results.
Our security revenue increased approximately 2% with a growth of 13% in Electronic Security partially offset by a 14% decline in physical security.
The Electronic Security business now represents approximately 2/3 of our total security revenue.
Looking at Slide 18 Brazil Other in the fourth quarter was up $25 million mostly driven by delivery on the lottery project.
For the full year Brazil Other increased approximately $150 million over the prior year but the increase is driven by lottery and IT-related equipment.
On Slide 19 total gross margin for the quarter improved 110 basis points to 25.8%.
This was driven by an improvement in product gross margin which increased 440 basis points to 21.4%.
The increase was primarily the result of favorable geographic mix by the higher volume in North America.
In addition Latin America was also the strong contributor as we benefited from certain contractual provisions in Venezuela that settled in the quarter which were partially offset by non-controlling interest.
For the full year our product gross margin finished at 20.1%.
Service gross margin for the quarter was 30.3% a slight decrease from the prior year.
As I noted in last quarter some of our reinvestments are being charged to service cost to sales as we focus on improving our systems and infrastructure to support our growth and transformation efforts.
For the full year service gross margins increased 300 basis points finishing at 30% reflecting the benefit of our cost improvement focus and transformation efforts.
Moving on to Slide 20.
Total operating expense for the quarter was 19.3% of revenue compared with 17.7% in the prior year period.
As we previously highlighted we are making investments in our transformation including IT back-office and R&amp;D those combined with higher selling expense from increased volume contributed to the year-over-year increase.
In addition we recorded a $2.1 million impairment related to certain operating leases in India.
Turning to Slide 21.
As we previously communicated we've already realized our planned $25 million in net savings for the year in the third quarter.
As expected our gross savings and reinvestments both of which were approximately $15 million offset one another in the quarter.
Turning to Slide 22.
Non-GAAP operating margin in the fourth quarter decreased 50 basis points to 6.5%.
For the year non-GAAP operating margin increased 110 basis points to 6% as we balanced our reinvestments while improving our underlying operational performance.
We will continue to take a measured approach to our reinvestments and make sure that our cost savings are dropping through to the bottom line.
Looking at operating profit by segment on Slide 23.
Latin America Brazil and North America all improved in the fourth quarter of 2013.
North America was up slightly versus the prior year as we start to overlap our cost-reduction actions.
Asia Pacific was down slightly impacted by the previously mentioned impairment in India.
The decrease in EMEA is attributable to a difficult comparison to the fourth quarter of 2013 which represented approximately half of the region's profit for that year.
The increase in Latin America is primarily tied to the contractual provisions in Venezuela I mentioned earlier.
Improvements in Brazil were driven by delivery of previously highlighted orders.
The change in the global and corporate line reflects the business reinvestments we have been highlighting on the call.
EPS on a non-GAAP basis was $0.48 for the quarter.
This excludes restructuring charges of $0.05 legal indemnification and professional fees of $0.03 as well as a $0.06 per share benefit related to the reversal of a provision for Brazil indirect taxes.
For the year non-GAAP EPS was $1.73 which was within our guidance range for the year.
As Andy outlined we were able to absorb a number of one-off items throughout the year and still deliver solid operational results including most recently the impairment in India the foreign exchange loss which were approximately $0.04 during the quarter.
This compares with $1.36 per share non-GAAP EPS in 2013 excluding the Brazil valuation allowance impact.
Non-GAAP effective tax rate payment of 32.7% compared with the approximate 32% guidance we previously provided.
Moving on to free cash flow on Slide 25.
We were encouraged by full year free cash flow of $125 million which increased $37 million from the same period last year.
Strong collection and prepaid activity across all geographies resulted in free cash flow exceeding our prior expectations.
Improving free cash flow has been a focus for all Diebold employees around the globe and we are encouraged that we've been able to stabilize and now grow our annual free cash flow over the last 2 years.
We will continue to bring additional discipline and focus to further improve our cash-generation capabilities.
Looking at Slides 26 and 27.
DSO remained unchanged at 42 days compared with the prior year period.
Our inventory turns decreased slightly year-over-year.
Net debt on Slide 28 for the period was $47 million a slight decrease from the prior year period resulting in a net debt to capital ratio of 5%.
Now I want to take a moment to update you on a few additional items.
As outlined on the last call we remediated our material weakness related to controls over Brazil indirect taxes and communication.
In addition we have now also remediated our remaining material weakness in India related to a system adoption and account reconciliation processes.
The company is continuing to strengthen its control environment with investments in our systems offices and people.
Next we remain committed to our dividend which our board recently approved to maintain a $0.2875 for the first quarter.
At current prices this represents an approximate 3.5% dividend yield on an annual basis but all remains to grow into a 35% dividend payout ratio over the long-term.
We are currently generating more than enough free cash flow to cover the dividend and our transformation investments.
Looking at our outlook on Slide 29.
We are adjusting our full year 2015 projections to reflect recent currency movements.
When we initially outlined our guidance in December we projected an approximate 2% headwind.
Based on current market exchange data we're now anticipating an approximate 5% currency headwind primarily attributable to the movement in the euro and the real.
Therefore we are adjusting our total revenue projections to be down approximately 5% to 6% for the year.
As a result we are adjusting our non-GAAP EPS be in the range of $1.80 to $2 per share.
Looking at it on a constant currency basis we are maintaining our guidance for each of our businesses.
This would translate to FSS growth of 4% to 6% adjusted for currency.
As a management team we remain committed to delivering on our turnaround strategy and are actively rolling our cost mitigation plans across the company to help address the impact of currency.
In terms of our earnings expectations on a seasonal basis we will follow our normal seasonality to be weighted more heavily towards the second half.
As we previously discussed our reinvestments will remain elevated in the first half of 2015 and then gradually decrease through the second half of the year and into 2016.
We are maintaining our free cash flow outlook for the year of approximately $120 million which includes an approximate $5 million increase in capital expenditures and a $15 million voluntary contribution to our North America pension plans.
We also continue to expect full year non-GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
Overall we are focused on consistent execution -- consistently executing our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy and we remain steadfast on our focus on continuous improvement.
During the past year we have strengthened our control environment while reducing our operational costs improving our working capital efficiencies.
As you can see the company is beginning to demonstrate tangible results from our turnaround efforts and we will continue to lay the foundation for long-term earnings growth.
With that I'll open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will go to Matthew Lipton with Autonomous Research.
I wanted to start with the product sales.
You mentioned North American mix helping product gross margin.
And I wanted to ask you more broadly about the trends you saw in ATM hardware demand in the quarter based on other reporters and yourself it seems the market could be firming a bit from product sales.
So where is the net demand coming from and do you think it could be -- it's lumpy or is it sustainable through '15? The drive for financial institutions to increase efficiency is creating some momentum in the market.
Market researchers have the market grow at 4% to 5% over the next years.
We see that manifesting itself.
The encouraging thing if you take a look at the full year 2014 for us in North America was that the regional banks are starting to get more active.
The branch automation is becoming topical in all kinds of financial institutions.
So I mean it's way too early to say the market is rebounding at a rapid pace but I do believe that the overall market conditions are looking -- starting to look better especially in North America.
So Andy would you say then that it seems the conversations are moving more broadly with smaller financial institutions whereas in previous quarters you didn't concentrate at the -- just at the largest institutions? Is that fair? That is a very fair statement.
The branch automation is a phenomena that we see across the board and we have conversations with banks large and small.
And if I take a look at our wins if I take a look at our pipeline it's very encouraging to see that the regionals as well as the local bank the credit unions are starting to embrace this technology.
That's great.
And then Chris one for you on the FX.
I think the incremental change in revenue and earnings I mean the earnings guidance moved it imply a 5% FX headwind.
I don't think you're that mismatched.
So is it just kind of how you move the numbers around and really we should be thinking about incremental change in FX as both 3% on the top line and on the bottom line? Yes.
I think you're thinking about it correct Matt.
If you look at the top line impact versus the previous outlook we provided back in December you're looking at about an additional $90 million move.
The fallout of that obviously is coming from these geographies and the fallout rate on that's probably around 9% 10% drop rate as we have more of our cost obviously sitting in U.S.
dollar-denominated locations.
So you got to apply a little bit higher I would say drop rate from a margin standpoint when you think about it from a modeling standpoint.
Our next question comes from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> In Asia did you call out specifically China.
How is the Chinese market progressing? Is it still broken out carefully between the different Western providers in the Chinese incumbent? Or is the Chinese incumbent getting more favorable treatment now from the Chinese banks? I think the answer to both of your questions is yes.
There is the -- there is a clear bias in China in the very large banks in the Tier 1 banks to -- towards local suppliers.
By the same token there is a vast opportunity in Tier 2 in Tier 3 banks which traditionally have been the strong suit of Diebold.
And we are being successful in those type of account and that was also the reason why we had a strong Q4 in China.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I know we just started 2015 but when I look at 2016 consensus estimates and I compare that with what you said on -- in your recent Analyst Day you talked about growing slightly above the market.
So maybe low- to mid-single digits and growing earnings 2x to 3x that.
That sounds like low-double digits but it looks like consensus estimates for 2016 of almost 30% growth.
Is there anything unusual about 2016 that can explain that difference? Or are you sticking with the mid-term guidance you provided on the Analyst Day? Yes.
Gil the guidance we provided during Analyst day still holds but I think and obviously the environment given the exchange rate volatility has changed little bit.
So when you're looking at on a constant-currency basis the outlook we provided for 2016 still holds true.
But -- and obviously the world changed a little bit with the significant drop we've seen in a few of these currencies so that's obviously going to impact just from a translation impact some of the top line bottom line numbers.
Our next question comes from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just a little bit picky on the 2015 guidance.
So it looks like the GAAP EPS numbers have been reduced relative to prior guidance by what $0.15 to $0.20 but the pro forma by only $0.10.
And it looks like there is some change to restructuring charges in non-routine.
Is that foreign exchange related? Or is there something else happening there in the adjustments? No.
The change in the restructuring charges in non-routine expense not really is much related to currency.
A big piece there is we're increasing our restructuring plan in the first half of the year and so we estimate that to be more in the $0.05 to $0.07 range and it was probably around $0.01 to $0.03 in the previous guidance.
So that's the biggest piece of the change there.
Slight increase in some of our legal and indemnification cost as well but the big components really related to our restructuring charges increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then your -- one of your competitors just talked about bookings not being a very good lead indicator of business from both American and financial services business anymore.
Is that something you concur with? And sort of echoing the prior questions we see a lot of activity in branch automation branch transformation which it does not seem to at least be reflected in bookings activity.
So is there some kind of disconnect there? Those are 2 questions Paul.
Let me start with the latter.
There is definitely way more activity or way more conversations in the market than what has manifested in orders for all players at this point in time.
The encouraging point here is the conversations are happening and they are picking up.
And as I said earlier they are picking up especially also in the regional space.
Now from the way you measure the market bookings are a good indicator for a hardware business.
The more we look into becoming a services-led software-enabled company your -- you want to start looking at recurring monthly revenue you want to look at TCVs because in many cases especially in the software side if you go down a SaaS model as well as in the managed services side if you have 3- or 5-year commitment the revenue will show a pro rata versus the deal which of course is a big deal but it would not be reflected in the booking numbers.
So I think collectively as an industry we are looking to find KPIs that will give you and everybody else a better indication of where the pup is going and will be adding additional KPIs to our conversations once we're through with our new linked process and most important also once we have the global IT infrastructure to provide this data in a consistent fashion.
Our next question goes to Joe Radigan with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I want to first touch on OpEx.
So SG&amp;A was about 15.6% of sales in 2013 adjusted for some of the restructuring charges.
It jumped up to 16.3% this year with some of the reinvestments you're making which it sounds like that's going to moderate as we go through this year.
Longer-term as you get leveraged from the work you're doing now what do you think is a reasonable target for SG&amp;A? And then maybe part 2 there does the RD&amp;E component of OpEx stay at around 3% of revenue? Or does that go up given kind of your new product pipeline and what you have in development? I'll address the latter first.
With regards to the R&amp;D we would expect that to probably stay at current levels for the foreseeable future and maybe level off a little bit.
As we obviously continue to drive our collaborative innovation process.
With regards to the SG&amp;A we're not giving forward-looking -- a forward-looking number specifically.
The expectation is we're going to continue to leverage and see that come down as we exit '15 and go into '16 and the reinvestments start to tail off.
And so obviously we'll be looking to leverage that as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the branch automation or branch transformation how competitive is the environment there particularly in the small and regional bank space? And given that it's a new product set with some new technology how are your customers treating it? Is it typically a big off where they're evaluating multiple options? Or is it more of a consultative sale where it's been driven more by the legacy relationship? And I guess what I'm getting at is this a door opener for a potential share shift among your customer base? Or how is that process going in the early stages here? This is a great question.
This is clearly a consultative sale.
This is not about a product this is about process this is about TCO this is about customer experience this is about omni-channel.
And in many cases our customers especially in the regional bank space they approach us and ask us for experiences around the globe from projects that's been done somewhere else lessons learned so very much a higher-level sale very much a consultative approach and we're leveraging all the relationships that we have and we actually consider those relationships a big asset going forward as we're jointly plotting a course into uncharted territory with our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe lastly Andy.
You've made some recent changes around your leadership team and several at the regions.
Can you talk about what drove that? And are you comfortable now with the team that you have in place at this point? We've had really good success bringing top leadership into the company.
We've brought a lot of great athletes to Diebold.
We've been very -- working very hard and are working very hard to turn all these athletes into a great All-Star team.
The results so far are very encouraging.
Whenever we brought a new regional leader in we can see positive momentum in the numbers you can see that in LatAm you can see that in Asia Pacific you can see that in EMEA.
And we expect this trend to continue as we upgrade leadership across the organization.
In general we've -- if you take a look at the mix we've upgraded about 2/3 of the leadership team but half of the leadership team is coming from external.
We've got some noticeable internal promotions Chris of course being the most prominent of them all.
And my senior team is starting to stabilize which is really a good thing.
Now the challenge for us is in the task at hand is to make sure that that talent upgrade flows through the organization.
And as we get the mid-level of the organization to the get to the phase performance level and align them with our thought process.
And that's always the hardest part in a turnaround is to get it through every layer of the organization.
But I can tell you we had a town hall with our North Canton workforce last night.
If I take a look at the type of questions the level of enthusiasm in the room today versus what it looked like when I joined the company 18 months ago it's night and day and while we still have a lot of work ahead of us I'm very encouraged about the progress that we've been making so far.
Our next question comes from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Andy I wanted to ask you a little bit about Brazil and your outlook for operating margins in 2015 for that region.
And specifically the ability to improve maybe some volatility is that possible? Or there is some unique characteristics that won't allow you to do that? Well the Brazilian market is a very unique market as you know.
Let's take it in different buckets.
Brazil Other is lumpy will remain lumpy and we've always said we're opportunistic about this business and we only do business that helps us to drive factory load which is a table stake that you have to have if you want to play in the FSS market in Brazil.
The FSS business is concentrated around basically 6 major banks in Brazil so their buying patterns will be cyclical and basically depending on their investment strategies.
But what's very encouraging was the fact that the FSS growth that we saw in Q4 were happening across multiple accounts and that we were able to gain share especially also in the out of branch network in Brazil.
But talking to volatility on the cost side one of the -- since we've done in the past since we treated Brazil as an island it's just very easy to do giving all the regulatory environment that you have.
The regulatory environment don't necessarily pertain to the workforce that we have employed there.
And if they take a look at the very solid growth that had -- we had in Latin America if I take a look at the highly qualified workforce we have in Brazil you can see that it's very logical to make sure that you have a broader workforce pool and that we drive utilization of the workforce utilization of expertise across a multitude of countries and Octavio has done a spectacular job turning Latin America around in the first 12 months that he's been with the company and we have very high expectations of him in the combined region.
And then Andy I think in your opening remarks you mentioned that some opportunities you have for managed services.
I guess the two-part question there.
One is that on the ATM side or the security side? And second is that U.S.
or international right now? The answer to both of your questions is both.
So the security business -- that's where the whole idea of recurring monthly revenue is way more prominent that these deals are primarily 3-year deals and you go into long-term customer relationships like the deal we've announced at Analyst Day with Sprint for instance.
Now if you take a look at the banking side as we go into branch automation as the banks are reinventing themselves they're also exploring new business models and that's where the idea of the whole managed services comes in.
And more for instance the more there are security issues out there the Windows 7 upgrade people all of a sudden realize that being always concurrent with their security on their software system is a key item making sure for instance that a company like ourselves guaranteed that for a bank versus your internal staff who might not be focused or might not be 100% in the loop of all the latest and greatest things that are happening is a true value proposition.
Same holds true on the compliance side.
So those type of conversations are increasing rapidly.
Then again until you sign these type of contracts a very lengthy conversation those are anywhere between 12- to 24-month sales cycles.
But once you form those relationships they are long-term relationships.
And I mentioned Belgian Post.
I mean they pretty much have handed the keys of the car over to us.
We do everything.
We do the hardware we do software we do services we do software upgrades we do security patches do do not's and it's those types of relationships that we believe will be very important and where we see a clear market differentiator from Diebold versus all our competitors.
And then just one last question Chris for you.
Would you expect capital working improvements in 2015 and that being a source of cash for you guys? My expectation is to see slight improvement.
Again as we talked about before we have on the DSO side a little bit of geographic mix that comes through.
And so I think continuing to perform somewhere in that 41 43 range is appropriate.
Inventory in my opinion is our biggest opportunity still and we'll continue to drive improvements in that regard and I've been very pleased with the work we've had in our procurement organization on appropriately extending contract terms and so that's been a nice benefit that we've seen there from an efficiency standpoint on the working capital.
And I would also point out as I outlined in a few of the -- on the slides regarding the pension impact we're going to see next year on -- of about $15 million that will impact our free cash flow.
But overall very happy with our focus and the performance there.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> First of all I want to congratulate you on the strong free cash flow performance.
Finishing 2014 it seems like you came in well above your forecast but you're -- it seems like you're also maintaining your $120 million free cash flow forecast in 2015 notwithstanding the better performance in '14 and maybe some currency headwinds.
Could you maybe talk about what's allowing you to maintain your '15 free cash flow forecast? Yes.
If you look at our 2015 free cash flow forecast we feel good about the underlying GAAP earnings GAAP results that are going to drive the operational portion of that cash flow.
And so we've got good line of sight to that.
Our focus on the working capital efficiencies in that regard gives us pretty good line of sight.
Again very very encouraged with the all-around performance across the geographies that we've seen as we exited 2014.
And again this is an area where we see there is continuous room for improvement.
And overall again we've outlined our goal as to finish our free cash flow at greater than 90% of our net operating profit after tax and I feel good about that target as we move forward.
Justin let me just add on a higher level.
I think it's a really good example how the alignment of company goals and strategy and individual goals and compensation payout.
We started 2 years ago to make sure that working capital objectives free cash flow objectives are in everybody's goal sheet.
It's a KPI that we talk about.
When I joined the company we took it out of the financial closet and made it a broad area of discussion.
There is not a monthly business review where we would not hit on these topics.
There are weekly calls that we have on -- around improvement.
And if you'd ask somebody today in the organization it doesn't matter whether you're talking to a sales person a service person a finance specialist an accountant everyone within Diebold would be able to tell you which role he or she plays in driving better working capital metricies for the company.
And that's one of the main reasons why you see this improvement because free cash flow is one of the things where this is not the work of a few people this is a work of all 16 000 Diebold employees we have around the globe.
Everybody is been pitching and everybody will continue to pitch in.
And we feel very confident that this is starting to become part of the -- our DNA and part of the way we're thinking as a company.
Inc.</strong> Great.
So then I should infer that whatever benefits you got in the fourth quarter from I guess prepayments on the working capital side will either not be given back in '15 or if they're given back will be offset with gains elsewhere? Yes.
If you look at the overall prepayment benefit I would say that the activity we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014 was above some of the historical performance we've seen there.
But as you point out though we'll continue to drive that activity appropriately.
We've seen the behaviors in the past.
We're not modeling quite a strong performance on the prepay side against some of that -- can push 1 month or 2 and could end up in 2016 or '15.
But overall we feel good about our program and delivering on that commitment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
On the pension side are you -- is there any mortality table hit for you in '15? Or is that going to come later? Yes.
We've adopted a new mortality table and so that's impacting our pension expense slightly as we move forward in addition to the change in discount rates.
So if you looked at that from a modeling standpoint 2014 pension expense was around $3 million and as you think about that in 2015 it's going to be approximately $8 million so about $5 million increase year-on-year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And that's within your adjusted guidance? Correct.
That's included in our -- that was included in our guidance.
Inc.</strong> And was it anticipated back in December as well? A fairly similar amount yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Finally I know that we're trying to sort of move beyond orders because they're very product focused.
But if I sort of do the math on your constant currency orders excluding sort of Brazil Other I guess I'm arriving at like a high-single digit quarter rate in the fourth quarter globally weighting it by your different geographies am I sort of in the right ballpark? Yes you are.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Kessler with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> No security questions today.
The question I do have though is about the content of your services business as it becomes a more predominant part of the company and drives more and more of the company and hopefully with higher margins.
What are the 4 or 5 leading services that you are going to be able to kind of throw into that or recurring revenue bucket that we can start maybe using monthly recurring revenue as a part of the valuation process to value your stock? In other words what are those 5 or 6 bullet points in terms of services that are going to drive the majority of the services increase as it gets bigger relative to product? That's really a good question Jeff.
So if you think about we like to focus on everything that is remote manageable.
So we do intrusion we do video we do fire a lot of the monitoring.
Our -- if you take a look at our solutions portfolio SecureStat that I know that you're very familiar with is a very important element because what it does it allows us to go into just about any customer switch them over to Diebold's remote monitoring without them having to upgrade any their -- of their equipment on-site.
So there's no forklift upgrade we can work with whatever they have whatever video camera whatever monitoring panels whichever vendor they like.
And if you look at the announcement that we just sent out yesterday in our collaboration with Eagle Eye that's taken it even a step forward because that's when you get into the cloud monitoring space and providing cloud analytics around video.
So those are the main areas that we're thriving on.
The other thing that you I know you're aware of that's a key value proposition for Diebold is our fact that we solely focus on large regional and national accounts.
We don't do residential we don't do so small business we only focus on those large operations because the value proposition that we bring is one throat to choke single solutions that you have that people have easy access and especially when you talk about software cash management transaction processing these are complicated things.
But having one partner coast-to-coast is a huge differentiator.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can you translate that over also into the FSS area? What specific services areas are growing fastest for you in that there? Video is being one of them especially.
And everything that's around the ATM security.
The fact that every one of our new machines is equipped with video cameras is yet another driver for that.
And then if you look into the other services element the whole idea of doing total implementation services when a financial institution wants to upgrade whether it's going from a Diebold legacy base into a new base or from a competitive base into a new base.
And we take care of all the idiosyncrasies all the project management all the work that has to be done because whenever a bank looks at upgrading 20 30 branches a week as an example that's a massive project management task and that's again one of the sweet spots where Diebold has been excelling.
And you know that for instance in Europe our Bankia contract spotted out exactly around this value proposition.
A lot of our French contracts are based on this value proposition and we've now started to offer the same services here in the United States and it's starting to pick up traction.
And at this time I would like to turn the program back over to John Kristoff with any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us on the call this morning.
As always if you have any follow-up questions please contact me or Chris Sikora directly.
Thanks again.
And that does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to Diebold Incorporated's First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kyle.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Diebold's first quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO and Chris Chapman Senior Vice President and CFO.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Andy and Chris will reference this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
Also I'm pleased to report that Steve Virostek has joined my team as Vice President Investor Relations.
We brought Steve onboard to continue our efforts to improve disclosure expand coverage and grow and diversify our shareholder base.
Steve has more than 15 years of IR experience in the IT services and technology space most recently with Computer Sciences Corporation and prior to that with Sprint Nextel.
I will continue to oversee IR in addition to Communications and Marketing but Steve will be taking on many of the day-to-day IR activities in the coming months.
Steve? Thanks John.
I'm really excited to be part of the Diebold team here and be part of this dynamic industry.
I look forward to interacting with all of you on the phone our analysts and our shareholders.
Before Andy and Chris discuss the Q1 results I'd like to remind our listeners that as with previous calls we are excluding certain restructuring charges and non-routine expenses from our non-GAAP financials.
We believe that excluding these items provides a good indication of the company's baseline operational performance and as a result many of our remarks will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financials please refer to the supplemental materials at the end of the presentation.
Moving to the next slide number three I'd like to remind our listeners that some of our comments may be considered forward-looking statements and our performance may deviate from these statements.
They are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to our detailed discussion of risk factors on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A replay of this webcast will be available later today.
Please keep in mind that the information discussed is only current as of today and subsequent events may render the information in the webcast out of date.
And now with the opening remarks let me turn the call over to Andy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning and welcome to all participants.
Thank you for joining our earnings call today.
We are off to a good start in 2015 with a solid top-line growth in our core business gross margin expansion and non-GAAP earnings growth.
We also delivered broad based growth in orders which include a number of new logos and innovative wins with marquee customers.
And we are making tangible progress in our transformation to a more services led software enabled company.
We are transforming our software portfolio with the acquisition of Phoenix Interactive Design a highly regarded provider of brand automation software.
Phoenix will become the foundation of our software business as these solutions deliver the omni-channel experience across all manufacturers' hardware.
Adding this IP as well as a highly talented workforce enabled us to pursue a greater share of the total addressable market or TAM.
This strategic addition to our company has been very well received by customers and employees alike.
Turning to financial results on slide 6 the financial self-service business was particularly strong in the quarter with 6% revenue growth or 12% in constant currency.
We've reported growth in every region of the world.
We are growing faster than the market by collaborating with customers to deliver a broader solution set.
In the security business revenue increased by 5% during the first quarter led by electronic security growth of 9% and aided by the fact that physical security was relatively flat year-over-year.
Our electronic security business continues on its positive trajectory as the increased sales coverage begins to show early results.
We improved total company gross margin by 270 basis point year-over-year to 26.7% with strong gains from both product and services.
This improved profitability confirms that our investment in global systems and processes are yielding tangible results.
Operating margin expanded by 40 basis points year-over-year on a non-GAAP basis.
This includes our reinvestment in upgrading back office systems and enterprise IT.
We will continue to make these investments however the absolute spend will begin to gradually decrease towards the end of the year.
From an earnings perspective non-GAAP EPS was $0.29 a 21% increase compared with the prior year.
While we're off to a solid start in 2015 currency headwinds strengthened during the quarter and the political environment in Brazil has become more volatile in the wake of recent events.
Therefore we feel it is prudent to take a more conservative view on our non-GAAP EPS outlook for the year.
Now let me speak to our positive order entry performance in the first quarter on slide seven.
We are very encouraged by the 4% growth in total assets as orders or 10% growth in constant currency.
In North America total orders grew 4%.
During the quarter we won a number of marquee deals including an agreement with Walmart to outfit its stores in North America with the latest financial self-service technology.
The agreement includes information security solutions software managed services and more than 2 000 of our recently launched new family of ATMs.
We began deploying the first ATMs and related services for Walmart in the first quarter of 2015 and expect the majority of the deployments to take place in 2016.
This is Diebold's largest retail market win in the company's history.
We also won a multiyear services deal with BBVA Compass to maintain their multi-vendor ATM fleet in the United States.
BBVA Compass represents a new logo for us as the bank currently has no Diebold's hardware in its ATM fleet.
This is an important deal for the company as it demonstrates our ability to win new customers by leading with our services capabilities.
Our first quarter accomplishment demonstrates that Diebold is winning on two fronts world class services and collaborative innovation.
It is too early to declare victory but we are very encouraged by our progress in the quarter.
Moving on to the security business orders in North America grew 5.5% with continued strength in electronics security up high single-digits.
We attracted 11 new logos to our ES business and continued to grow recurring monthly revenue as a percentage of total orders.
In EMEA we generated reasonable FSS orders given a very difficult comparison versus one year ago as well as coming off a fourth quarter of strong order growth.
As we are taking a targeted account approach to sales in this region and working from a relatively small base year-over-year comparison can vary greatly from quarter to quarter.
We have a very strong order pipeline and remain optimistic about our growth opportunities in this region.
In Asia Pacific orders increased by 8% year-on-year.
In China we grew orders 3%.
However we are continuing to see a tendency in China where the government is encouraging banks to increase their use of domestic technology providers.
Outside of China we saw substantial growth in other areas such as Southeast Asia.
In addition we've had some success in Australia where we recently announced an expanded software and services contract with Suncorp.
Diebold is assisting the company with the next phase of its multi channel strategy.
Our market position in Australia has been further augmented by our recent acquisition of Phoenix as we now have a number of key software accounts in the geography.
In Latin America total FSS orders increased nearly 50% representing record order growth for the region.
This increase was led by strength in Mexico a market where we are regaining share.
Our success in Latin America demonstrates what is possible when new leaders new spirit and new solutions meet with exciting market opportunities.
Moving on to slide number 8 I'd like to spend a few minutes on the dynamics within the financial self-service industry as our customers are evolving their retail delivery model and how our own transformation helps strengthen our position as a strategic partner.
Our clients are facing increased consumer demand across multiple channels at the traditional branch in retail locations online and mobile.
While financial institutions agree that they must bring together the best elements of the customer experience across each channel there is no one-size-fits-all approach and how to build and deliver that omni-channel experience which is why a strategic partner is needed to address the complete value chain consult design build and operate.
Diebold is embracing these dynamic trends together with our customers through collaborative innovation.
For example with help from our Innovation Center in Brussels we designed built and deployed 400 self-service kiosks for UBS.
This custom omni-channel solution for the European market was delivered in about six months which demonstrates our increased flexibility and agility as a company.
In the security business we accelerated our time to market for streaming cloud based video services by partnering with Eagle Eye Networks.
These new solutions will stream and store video provide flexible cloud storage and generate notification and real-time analytics that are managed through our SecureStat platform.
As you can see continued investment in software and services enables the company to move up the value chain and expand our share in the evolving industries we serve.
Now looking at the cost structure of the business as we communicated the benefits are starting to show up in the gross margin yet we're still in the midst of our foundational work to becoming a better company on the many fronts we've previously outlined.
This work is evident in our increased OpEx spend.
Chris will provide more color on the magnitude and timing of our reinvestments in his commentary.
We're also making progress towards instilling a winning culture at Diebold.
In previous calls we have discussed the influx of new talent at the leadership level within Diebold.
As the turnaround gains momentum we're becoming a destination for talent.
In fact the number of unsolicited CVs we are receiving today is more than double the number that we received a year ago.
We've done a lot of work at the top of the company.
With the senior leadership team now in place we continue to strengthen our broader leadership bench.
For example we're in the final stages of hiring new leaders for Brazil and India and we're starting to see results from the new leaders we brought into the company.
When I think about what we've been able to accomplish recently in Latin America Asia Pacific and EMEA it is clear that our new leadership team is driving positive change.
The team is starting to come together with a unified focus on innovation collaborating with customers broadening our solution set and winning in the marketplace.
We recently brought together about 100 top leaders to discuss our plans to transition to the walk phase of the turnaround in 2015.
It was exciting to see the level of energy developing among the broader leadership team.
To summarize the company had a good quarter on many fronts financially operationally and strategically.
We said at the beginning of our transformation that most of our success was based on a large dose of self-help.
We are delivering on all four tenets of our Diebold 2.0 turnaround program: cost cash talent and growth.
Of course we are not immune to currency fluctuations or specific country issues but we are clearly executing on the factors within our control.
Looking forward we remain optimistic about our opportunities and our industry.
We are a company in transformation serving an industry that is transforming.
Although we still have a lot of work in front of us I am confident about the future and our ability to move on to the walk phase of our transformation during the second half of the year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Chris for more details on our financial performance.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
I will start off by walking through our first quarter financial performance and then provide an update on our 2015 outlook.
As you have probably already seen in our materials we made a small change in our external reporting segments to reflect how we manage the business internally.
Our Brazil and Latin America regions have been consolidated into one region which we will refer to as Latin America.
The historical results of the two individual regions can be consolidated to provide comparisons to the new segment structure.
Now turning to revenue starting on slide 12 total revenue decreased 4.8% as reported but increased approximately 1% in constant currency.
As we have previously communicated the Brazil Other business had significant activity throughout 2014 which will not be repeated at the same levels in 2015.
Focusing on our core business FSS and security grew 6% as reported or approximately 11% in constant currency.
Latin America excluding Brazil Other had solid growth of 17.5% in constant currency.
As we noted in the fourth quarter there is strong order activity and momentum in this region and it has materialized in the solid performance in the quarter.
EMEA and Asia Pacific showed growth over the prior year both up 3% on an as reported basis.
Adjusting for currency growth for the quarter was 24% in EMEA and 5% in Asia Pacific.
Finally North America grew 7% including a slight impact from currency.
As you can see currency had a significant impact on our first quarter results.
Currency headwinds are expected to continue as we move forward in the year and I will provide more detail on this shortly.
As we move to slide 13 financial self-service revenue was up approximately 6% as reported with increases in all regions led by North America EMEA and Latin America.
On a constant currency basis FSS revenue was up 12% with all regions reporting growth in the quarter versus the prior year period.
North America grew high single digits primarily due to a large deposit automation project and increased volume in our regional account business.
On a constant currency basis EMEA increased 24% as we continue to execute our account-focused strategy in the region.
In Latin America we had approximately 19% growth adjusting for currency driven by the strong activity previously highlighted.
Total security revenue on slide 14 increased approximately 5%.
Electronic security revenue increased approximately 9% or 11% in constant currency with a 1% decline in our physical security business.
The electronic security business represented approximately two-thirds of our total security revenue.
Looking at slide 15 Brazil Other was down $69 million in the quarter due to the delivery of a large IT technology project in the first quarter of 2014.
On slide 16 total gross margin improved 270 basis points to 26.7%.
A major contributor to this improvement was service gross margin increasing 230 basis points to 30.7%.
We are pleased with the continued service gross margin improvement over the past several quarters as a result of our global service transformation efforts.
Product gross margin increased 230 basis points to 20.7%.
The increase was primarily the result of favorable solution mix and higher volume in North America.
Moving on to slide 17 total operating expense was 22.1% of revenue compared with 19.7% in the prior year period.
We continue to make foundational investments in IT back office and R&amp;D as well as strengthening our business processes and controls.
Year-over-year operating expense comps will remain difficult in the second quarter of 2015 as we started to ramp up our reinvestment activity in the third quarter of last year.
Turning to slide 18 as we previously communicated we have realized $55 million in net cost savings program to-date through year end 2014.
As I just highlighted our 2015 reinvestments will be weighted heavier towards the first half of the year representing approximately two-thirds of our expected $20 million reinvestment.
We are on track to realize $40 million in gross savings which after investments will result in an additional $20 million in net program savings by the end of the year.
Turning to slide 19 non-GAAP operating profit increased 4% or 16% on a constant currency basis.
Our operating margin increased 40 basis points to 4.7% as we have improved our underlying operational performance while funding our reinvestments.
The company is maintaining a strong focus on improving this cost structure such as the recent Latin America consolidation especially given the continued pressure from currency.
Looking at operating profit by segment on slide 20 North America improved $8.3 million or approximately 14% versus the prior year.
This increase was driven by higher volume in our regional business combined with benefits from our service transformation efforts and cost reduction actions.
EMEA and Asia Pacific improved approximately 10% and 8% respectively.
In Latin America operating profit decreased $8.4 million due to our cyclical Brazil Other business.
The change in the global and corporate line reflects the business reinvestments that we have been highlighting.
In summary when excluding the impact of Brazil Other there was broad based improvement in all regions compared with the prior year.
EPS on a non-GAAP basis was $0.29 for the quarter.
This excludes restructuring charges of $0.05; legal indemnification and professional fees of $0.04 and the impairment of legacy Diebold software following the acquisition of Phoenix of $0.09.
In addition we realized an $0.08 impairment related to the decision to exit the company's Venezuela joint venture and $0.07 tied to the impact of the bolivar devaluation.
Due to our inability to exchange the Venezuela operations bolivar cash balances because of restrictive currency controls and corresponding impact on our ability to effectively run the business we decided to exit our direct presence in Venezuela and move to an indirect sales model.
Therefore we are excluding the Venezuela impairment and currency devaluation impact from our non-GAAP results in 2015.
The non-GAAP effective tax rate came in at 26.5% compared with 33% in the prior year.
Moving on to free cash flow on slide 22.
Our free cash flow results reflect a $73 million free cash use which increased approximately $34 million from the same period last year.
This is primarily due to working capital expansion tied to our first half business activity a voluntary pension contribution of $10 million and slightly elevated capital expenditures.
Turning to slide 23 DSO reflected an increase of 7 days to 61 days in the quarter versus the same period last year primarily due to geographic mix and timing of revenue within the quarter.
Inventory turns reflected a small decrease of 5.3 turns compared to the first quarter 2014 of 5.4 turns.
Net debt on slide 24 for the period was $238 million an increase of $191 million from year end 2014.
The increase in net debt is largely attributable to the acquisition of Phoenix.
In addition net debt was also impacted by an adverse exchange rate on cash balances as well as seasonal working capital expansion.
The company's net debt-to-capital ratio was 23% at the end of the current quarter and 4.5% at the end of 2014.
Looking at our outlook on slide 25 we are adjusting our full year 2015 assumptions to reflect greater currency movements than previously outlined.
In February we projected an approximate 5% currency impact primarily attributable to the real and euro.
Based on recent rate movements we now expect an approximate 6% currency headwind for 2015.
As a general rule of thumb based on our current geographic mix of business a 1% currency impact on top line falls out at approximately 15% on the bottom line.
We are maintaining our projections for total revenue to be down approximately 5% to 6% for the year as the currency headwind is partially offset by revenue from the recent acquisition of Phoenix.
However we expect earnings impact in Phoenix to be neutral in the year inclusive of integration costs and the impact of purchase accounting on the top line.
Looking at revenue on a constant currency basis we are maintaining our guidance for our core business with 4% to 6% growth in FSS and relatively flat revenue for security.
On an as reported basis FSS revenue will be flat to up 2%.
In addition to the impact of currency we have also adjusted our outlook to reflect reduced expectations in our Brazil business.
We are seeing a delay in purchase decisions among the government banks due to the current political situation which we expect to impact the near term purchase activity.
As a result we are adjusting our non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $1.70 to a $1.90.
In terms of earnings expectations on a seasonal basis the year will follow our normal seasonality and be weighted more heavily towards the second half.
We are maintaining our free cash flow outlook for the year of approximately $120 million which includes an approximate $5 million increase in capital expenditures and a $10 million to $15 million voluntary contribution to our North America pension plans.
We also continue to expect the full year non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 30%.
Overall we are focused on consistently executing our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy and we remain steadfast in our focus on long-term improvements while laying the foundation for future growth.
With that I'll open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
In recent memory I don't remember such a divergence in performance in the ATM business between the three different companies.
It seems like that means the market's doing well but it also means you're taking share since you had the strongest performance of the three companies.
And particularly you called out Walmart in the U.S.
and if my memory isn't mistaken they recently deployed relatively recently within the last two years or three years a competitor's solution.
So what is it that's helping you gain share right now? And does the Phoenix acquisition play into that in terms of strengthening your software capabilities? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Gil the biggest thing that differentiate Diebold is our ability to provide a total package consult design build and operate.
If you take a look at the Walmart deal it's truly a managed services deal over many years.
And you're correct we are replacing a competitive installation there with very innovative solutions as Walmart is going into the financial services space and we're offering functionality like bill pay or money transfer on our machines which brings us to the second thing which is collaborative innovation because they approached us and said "Listen we're trying to do this.
We're trying to get our arms around the space " and we were able to satisfy their requirements in a very short period of time.
So those two are the main differentiators in the market.
If you were to add up all the wins we had in Q1 because as a matter of fact also a lot of the Latin America wins were services led deals we contracted north of a $100 million in total contract value which is going to monetize over the next four years to five years.
With regard to Phoenix Phoenix is yet going to one-up our position in the market as it will give us a really broad software offering.
It gives us the opportunity to provide thin client server architecture and do that and that's the important thing across all vendors hardware alike because customers don't want to be pinned in to just one competitor's ear.
They want to have the flexibility yet have one common user interface.
So we're super excited we're opportunity rich and we got a lot of work ahead of us.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then in terms of Brazil a very well publicized issue there having their internally the President there.
What's the mechanism? What's the connection between – what the big political issues having there and your new outlook about the Brazilian ATM market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look it's actually very very simple Gil.
Given all the political noise that is in the system and given the fact that there is a new government in place in Brazil since late fall last year some of the key jobs in the government banks have not been filled.
So one of our top customers is looking at issuing a big RFP but there is no executive at the bank who can actually authorize the issuance.
So it's just the normal thing until you get more clarity people know who's on first and who's is going to take responsibility for what and that will impact decision-making patterns and buying patterns not from whom they like but from when they are ready to make a decision.
And we thought it was prudent to foreshadow that.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
First question how much revenue can we associate with the Phoenix acquisition maybe on the run rate basis? I'm not going to give the forward looking from a run rate standpoint.
I would say in 2015 it will be shy of 1% and again we're losing some of the top line impact this year just due to the rules around purchase accounting and we'll continue to give more clarity on that software as we move forward.
So I think I heard you say it's about 1% of growth.
Is that correct for the company? It will be a little bit south of 1% in 2015.
Okay got it.
The free cash flow was a little bit weak at the beginning of this year and it looks like the accounts receivables and so on were up.
How is this year different from prior year? And last year I think the second quarter was the worst quarter from a cash flow perspective.
Is it going to be a slightly different shape this year? To get the first part of the question there first quarter what was different again we had the $10 million voluntary contribution to our pension.
So again that was an addition from where we were at prior year and what you just highlighted there on the receivables.
Again just the timing of our revenue and how that worked out from a collection standpoint had our DSOs a little bit higher.
So we see the working capital expand a little bit more in first quarter from where we were at in prior year.
I expect that to we'll say move back to prior levels from a DSO standpoint here in the second quarter and as we move forward.
And then expect the full year total cash flow to follow a fairly similar path that we've seen in the past with our fourth quarter being the strongest cash generation quarter of the year.
Okay.
Fun question for Andy.
I mean it looks to me like you're already walking or running or something.
How are things going to be different as we go from crawl to walk? It feels like things are already a little bit different.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look I think we've used the term that we're eyeing walk in previous conversations Paul.
We are right at the cusp of it.
We got to get the foundational projects behind us.
Right now we're in transition idiosyncrasies get that out of the system to make sure we can focus the complete energy on the company on the fourth pillar of our turnaround strategy which is growth.
The encouraging news is that we see our order pipeline increasing.
We see that across all geographies.
And the fact that services led asks are coming in by themselves is something that makes us feel very optimistic about the future.
And then you just mentioned Phoenix.
That's yet another integration we got to get done.
Phoenix is going to be the core of our software platform.
We need to make sure we're going to train everybody around the globe and then we'll take the software asset and give it a much broader footprint than it ever had in the past.
Okay thank you.
We'll take our next question from Joe Radigan with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
First a couple of questions on the guidance.
Andy typically you have line of sight to two-thirds of your revenue heading into the year.
You had a very strong orders quarter in Q1.
Where could there be upside or downside versus kind of your guidance expectations aside from FX which obviously you can't predict that but how confident are you in this range and where could there be potential upside? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The biggest volatility we have in our forecasting models is Brazil.
And given the fact that Brazil is roughly 12% of our overall revenue it's a meaningful number and these decision cycles these projects can swing.
And if you then take into consideration that the real moved I think it moved in a band of plus/minus 10% 12% over the last six weeks to eight weeks and you then take into consideration that some of the revenue outlook is more heavily weighted to the end of the year that's where you got the variability in the model.
On the other side the more deals we win the higher our upside.
Inc.</span></strong> In terms of the seasonality of earnings I mean Chris you mentioned that it was going to be back half weighted again.
Compared to last year where it was about a 40-60 split I mean do you expect a similar cadence this year or is it going to be more back half weighed just given the first half reinvestments and how the backlog is going to flow through the year? No.
I think it's going to be a very similar pattern that you saw last year could be a little bit more activity towards the back half again depending on how some of the large deals happen to move.
But I think you're thinking of it right from a timing standpoint.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then lastly on that Walmart order.
Is there potential for a follow-on order and does that include a service contract as well I think I heard you mention? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me start with the second part of your question.
It is actually a multiyear managed service contract.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So it clearly falls into the category of services led.
By the way it's also an interesting situation because we always get asked how big is branch automation and now you get into the head scratcher is Walmart as they're entering into the financial services space.
Is that a branch in the making or is that – how would you classify that? So we see a lot of opportunities there with Walmart.
We see a lot of opportunities with other retailers.
We see opportunities with banks moving into the retail space because what people are trying to do is offering financial services to a broad population at a very convenient place and everybody's got to buy groceries and household staples.
So it's a very interesting market.
And if you add another fact to it our Phoenix friends already are the providers of the software layer for Publix.
So we now have within one quarter two legs to stand on in the emerging financial support industry in the North American retailers.
So we're super excited about it.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Andy.
Thanks Chris.
We'll take our next question from Matt Lipton from Autonomous.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Andy as you think about integrating Phoenix into your business I saw the small impairment charge.
So when you think about your branch transformation products your video teller ATM product are you going to be backdating or adding Phoenix software to those products and replacing the old Diebold software? And then how long does that process take? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well look the devil on these things is always in the detail but let me start for instance to give you an example.
The largest deployment of our video teller that's out there in the market is actually already today a combination of Diebold's IP and Phoenix IP.
So that's already integrated at our largest account.
Going forward we're going to make Phoenix the core the kernel of our software platform because it's multivendor it's across all hardware environment and it's absolutely omni-channel in its setup.
Having said all of that we will continue to support our Agilis customers.
As a matter of fact we are currently working on a thin layer of Phoenix omni-channel capability that we can upgrade our Agilis customers to so that in the very near future if you're an existing Diebold customer you can keep what you have but you get all the advantage and the access to the new technology that we just acquired.
Got it.
And then I mean more broadly on this concept of multivendor software it's something we've spoken a lot about but how important is this as a software piece to being able to cross sell or sell some more product to customers that might be using the current Phoenix software package? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look it's super important.
And the reason behind that is very simple.
There is a consultation in the financial services market going on.
And if one bank acquires the other chances are their infrastructure is slightly different.
So if you're the Head of Retail all of a sudden you end up with a mixed media environment but you want to have one face to the customer one consumer approach.
You want to be able to serve all constituencies of your old and your new acquisition target.
So you need one layer across all of this.
And this is where Phoenix comes into play and this is where we're now going to come in because we can offer a bank the full transparency.
You don't have to rip out anything that you have.
You can put a software layer on top of it.
It's a client server architecture.
You run it out in the background from your servers.
You have very quick ways to update things and you provide one common interface.
And when you talk about omni-channel having multivendor capabilities is table stakes otherwise you're limiting the target route that you can address as a financial institution.
That's great.
And then Chris I had two questions for you.
One I know you probably don't want to disclose what the exact margin is on the Walmart business but a lot of times people get into Diebold-Walmart the revenues look good but the margins don't look as good.
So can you at least frame in some context for us what the profitability of that contract might look like? Yeah I would say first and foremost it is a profitable deal and the margins that we're seeing on that are roughly in line on the hardware side with our historical national account business and then we also have a nice portion of this which is part of our service business as well and those would run through I would say fairly well in line with our blended service margins as well.
So overall a very nice add for us.
Okay thank you for that.
And finally from me the $0.10 guidance cut when I look at what you'd change for Brazil and FX in your assumption I think it's only a few pennies.
So could you just walk me through kind of the delta between that and the full $0.10 change that you made this quarter? Thank you.
Yeah.
If you bring the pieces together so the 1% change in currency just call that $30 million and with a 15% drop rate net income before tax you're looking at an approximate – call that about $0.05.
And so that's the currency impact change in guidance.
And then you look at the other piece of that movement and that's attributable to the change in our outlook for the Brazil markets that's the breakdown of the $0.10 really 50:50 split.
Thanks guys.
And we'll take our next question from Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Hey good morning.
Andy I wanted to ask you about the sustainability of the gross margins.
Impressive gross margins on both hardware and services.
And as you move forward do you anticipate – is this sustainable? Or are there some one-time issues that allow you to kind of get to where you are? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Kartik the way you want to think about it is you always have seasonality in each quarter.
You have deal mixes in each quarter.
Every quarter where we have a huge hardware deal in it for instance puts pressure on the overall margins.
But in general just rule of thumb.
If you think about the industry on the hardware side you're usually facing a 5%ish type of headwind and your design to cost efforts have to make sure that you get your arms around it.
Going to a next gen hardware platform and rolling that out that was a major step forward for Diebold.
On the service side you usually have about a 1% to 2% cost headwind in each geography and there you got to drive your efficiencies through service utilization higher degree of automation and higher degree of remote service capabilities and that's right in the wheelhouse of what we're trying to accomplish with our IT upgrades.
So business can always be seasonal business can always have ups and downs but we've got solid plans on how we're going to work on the sustainability on our gross margins.
And then as you look at the EMEA region obviously based on the revenue growth you had you probably had some market share wins.
I know it's only the first quarter so you don't want to get carried away there.
But what is specifically driving that? Now I know the base is small but what is specifically driving your ability to gain market share in that region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We have a very targeted approach.
And if you think about Europe it was basically a market that was divided up between two of our main competitors and when a third more innovative party enters the picture and gives the customer more attention more agility and more flexibility combined with latest day technology customers listen and we're having a lot of very interesting conversations right now.
And then just one last question Andy.
You talked about obviously what Walmart is doing and then you made reference about other retailers.
Is that just your thought that as other retailers witness what Walmart is doing they'll want to do it or is that more of a commentary that you're having discussions with other retailers that are looking to provide some financial services for their customers and then there lies the opportunity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Actually Kartik you want to think about it on a little higher level.
As banks are going through their evaluation how many branches should I have? Where should I have a branch? The real estate in the groceries in the supermarkets become extremely valuable so you have two trends.
You have companies like Walmart who want to embrace the population and in many cases the under bank population which in the U.S.
is a much bigger number than people would normally think of.
And by the same token you have a lot of banks.
I am aware of two major RFPs globally right now where banks are really interested in putting kiosks into the retail space to attract the customers right there and then so this is going to be a very important piece of the puzzle as people think through how to provide financial services as an infrastructure to the respective population in each country.
Thank you very much Andy.
I appreciate it.
We'll take our next question from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
What was the EPS or what is the EPS accretion from the Phoenix acquisition embedded in your fiscal 2015 guidance? It's neutral this year Meghna just given some of our integration costs and some of that loss in the top line from the purchase accounting so no impact to EPS in 2015.
Okay.
And then maybe if you can talk a little bit about branch transformation.
I remember last quarter you all talked about expecting 20% growth in branch transformation this year and could we see an upside to this number? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Meghna first things first.
There is still no definition out there in the market what branch transformation or how we want to think about it branch automation really all entail.
From what we know leading market research companies are pretty close to coming up with a definition.
And if we read the tea leaves properly at the moment we're extremely well positioned it's a very solid growth number.
And I'd say definitely north of 20%.
But I want to refrain from giving an exact number until we have a clear definition of what the starting point is.
And I referenced Walmart earlier.
That's a great example.
It's a very big deal.
Is that in or out? It clearly has all the technical functionality of branch automation it just does not happen to fit in a physical branch it fits in a retail floor space.
So these are the type of things where the industry has to get its arms around.
I would summarize it on a higher level and say financial services are transforming financial services are being more automated and that's cash and noncash.
If you take for example the work that we've done UBS in Switzerland which was a competitive win for us that's where – the bank really went out by saying we want to automate the noncash functionality in a branch like account openings.
You can actually walk up to a kiosk do all your data and get your bank card within a few minutes after you're doing this thing right there and then and use it five minutes later down mainstream in a store as a debit card.
So tons of opportunity still lack of definition lots of interest very opportunity rich from a growth point of view.
Thanks Andy.
That's helpful.
And with regarding the Venezuela business correct me if I am wrong but you saw the same issue I believe last year as well.
So can you help us understand why or what led you all to exit the business now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me start out with a flip comment and I'll let Chris take it from there.
But from a business point of view Venezuela has basically left the building.
There is no rational way for us as management to get our arms around a country where you have absolutely no access to your currency and the currency itself is artificially being lowered in very short intervals.
But I'll let Chris give you the more financially savvy answer on that one.
And when you look at this from our treatment in 2014 if you think about it 2012-2013 there were various movements in the bolivar and we were subject to those currency fluctuations when we were in the business and we were in the market.
And so when we saw the devaluation occur last year while it was substantial and sizable we were still in the location and we were still subject to those moves when you looked historically.
When you think about it on a go forward basis with our decision to exit the business like several others have done and taken this treatment.
You can look at Ford and some others that have taken pretty significant actions in Venezuela.
We really viewed it from a forward-looking standpoint.
The volatility and the impact of Venezuela as you compare our results moving forward are not going to be there because we've changed the model.
And so we thought it was prudent to remove that from our non-GAAP in 2015 because that's going to be more relevant when you compare us on a quarterly basis moving forward into 2016 and beyond.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Now having said all of that the indirect model gives us the opportunity to continue to service our customers.
There is a few really large international banks that have representation in Venezuela.
We have the majority of the market share down there and this way we can make sure our customers are not left stranded because of political idiosyncrasy.
Okay thanks Andy.
Just a very quick follow-up to Chris on my first question.
You said that the Phoenix EPS accretion is neutral but isn't that neutral inclusive of integration cost so wouldn't you back out the integration costs.
I'm just trying to figure out what the non-GAAP EPS accretion from Phoenix? Yeah.
The integration costs are included both in our GAAP and non-GAAP numbers.
We're not going to try to call out the integration costs of the Phoenix.
It's not going to be extremely significant and we're really trying to get in a habit of keeping those non-GAAP adjustments to a minimum around the restructuring legal costs and real significant events.
We're not trying to get every little item into the non-GAAP line.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Strong top-line result.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sorry Justin we missed the first half of your comment there it cut out.
Could you repeat? I just said good morning Andy and Chris.
Congratulations on the strong top-line result.
Can you hear me better? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Yes thank you.
Okay.
Great a few quick questions.
In Europe obviously one of your competitors had a meaningful negative preannouncement and sort of made it seem like the market was worsening.
In light of your strong performance in Europe are you seeing deceleration in the market or is the market sort of showing stable growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well just let's be fair.
We're talking EMEA here and there are stories within the story and our footprint is clearly helping us.
We have little to no exposure to Russia for instance and the adjacent states.
The second thing is we are taking a targeted account view.
So even within economies that might be under pressure there is always one or two banks that are very healthy that are very good business partners and that you like to be engaged with.
And that's our criteria as we go around Europe.
And then of course you add to it the amount of dedication the amount of service the amount of innovation.
If you take a look for instance at our Brussels Innovation Center it's a huge asset for our European team to be able to design customized solutions be more nimble.
Think of it as the Pininfarina of the ATM industry.
So we got some really cool assets there.
We are very diligent in our approach and we're very optimistic especially with our services led approach about our European expansion.
Good to hear.
With respect to the Walmart order how much did that add to your total order book in this quarter or your total financial self-service order book if you can quantify? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well for those of you who know Walmart you're never at liberty to disclose any numbers.
But before you start modeling this thing out this is a really long managed services deal.
So it's a very high TCV number but it's going to monetize over multiple years and the services pieces are not booked in one lump sum as you very well know.
There is no such thing as services backlog.
They're being booked pro rata as you perform these services so we'll be enjoying the benefits of that for many years to come.
Okay thank you.
But it is a meaningful contribution to that plus 10% constant currency order number it's safe to assume? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It is safe to assume and it's a meaningful contribution to the plus $100 million TCV number that I gave earlier.
Okay thank you.
With respect to free cash flow you maintain your free cash flow guidance of $100 million to $120 million.
Is there an offset to the lower EPS guidance that's allowing you to maintaining that free cash flow guidance or do you just not think it was material enough to lower the guidance range for free cash flow? I would say it a little bit differently.
When we gave the original guidance of $120 million we were trying to be inclusive of a lot of the overall programs that we have in place.
We feel very good about our focus on working capital and cash and based on the momentum that we have globally in that program we feel we have the ability to still meet the original guidance of approximately $120 million.
Okay great.
And then just really quickly the one-time charges in your annual guidance for the adjusted EPS I guess are now materially larger but just seems like the difference relates to the software impairment charge in Venezuela.
Is that correct or are there other differences too besides your old and new guidance as it relates to the one-time adjustments? Yeah you basically have it correct.
So if you look at the breakdown there you've got the $0.09 for the software impairment you've got the $0.15 tied to Venezuela the legal costs are in a $0.10 to $0.13 range.
And then restructuring has been increased slightly up $0.02 and it's now $0.07 to $0.09 for the full year is the breakdown of all of the pieces there.
Great thank you for taking all my questions.
Best of luck.
Thanks Justin.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Saliq Khan with Imperial Capital.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
I'm speaking on behalf of Jeff Kessler as well along with myself.
We just had a couple of quick questions for you.
First one being is that while we see that EMEA grew double digits on a constant currency basis we did notice that APAC was growing at low single digits.
Given this could we particularly could we expect some sort of reshuffling of the leaders of the APAC to help you further grow this region.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not quite sure I fully understood the question would you mind rephrasing? Sure essentially what we're saying is that we're seeing a robust amount of growth coming out of the EMEA region but not necessarily from APAC on a constant currency basis.
Could I expect some sort of a reshuffling of the leaders to the APAC region from either EMEA or North America or elsewhere or the hiring of additional leaders from your competitors to help you further grow that region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Asia Pac is a beast of many colors.
What you got to balance in your views and in your models is there is a lot of opportunity in Asia in India all across ASEAN Australia-New Zealand.
But by the same token the political headwinds that all western manufacturers face in China are very real.
There is a clear direction from the government to embrace local technology.
So the Chinese market will become more contested with local players and that is going given its size and magnitude that's going to impact the size of the addressable market for the western players.
Okay.
The other one being is that – it's been asked several times already regarding Walmart and the deployment itself.
I'm not necessarily concerned about this being a four-year to five-year contract win but what I do want to know is that how do you essentially approach this contract to be able to maximize cost efficiencies going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The best way to make money in a managed service contract is A to have a very good detailed contract with very clear SLAs so both parties know exactly what they're signing up for.
And those of you who know Walmart know how diligent that company is in defining their requirements.
B is to make sure that internally you got all your systems and your controls set up properly to deliver to that SLA.
And C then is flawless execution over the term of the contract.
And we've done all of this.
This has been a project in the making for many many many months.
Those of you who've heard me talk about managed services deals I've always told you that those have 12-month 18-month and in some cases even 24 month lead time because the devil is in the detail.
This is a good example of a well-thought out process over a long period of time that all participants feel very comfortable with.
Okay.
Andy the last question I have for you as well surrounding Walmart again.
Is that – while Walmart is pretty secretive about the contract details one of the good things about winning this contract is that you have a lot of the other top 10 top 15 and top 20 retailers looking at you and coming at you as well.
So how do we think about more such contracts particularly in the U.S.
over the next 12 months to 18 months? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well look this is a great question.
I would say this is it's unchartered territory.
You won't find it in a market research report which makes it so exciting and you're absolutely correct there is a lot of interest and we're already starting to get a lot of inquiries from other players.
We'll have to see how this thing is going to play out.
Great.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate it.
And we'll take our next question from Vignesh Murali with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hey guys thank you for taking my question.
First question is on capital allocation priorities for the rest of the year.
Are acquisitions still near the top of the list? And if they are is it more likely going to be in the security side or the financial services side? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think what we've talked about before with regards to hitting the second half of that question is our focus would probably be more on the software and services side from an acquisition standpoint.
If you look at what our capacity is we still do have sufficient capacity on our balance sheet to go out after additional what I would call tuck-in acquisitions.
So feel good about where we're at and our capacity to continue to focus more on that growth side as we continue to move forward.
Great thank you for that.
And as a follow-up on the electronic security side what are the major drivers behind the continued strong performance of that segment and also can you provide an update on like the progress made by the SecureStat platform in terms of market share? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
This is clearly a we try harder approach.
We are a very distant number three.
We only focus on national and large regional accounts and you've already mentioned our secret sauce.
The ability to have the SecureStat layer which you can basically think of as a portal on any existing security infrastructure is very very important for us to gain share.
Again it's the concept of embracing heterogeneous environments because what it enables a customer is to switch for instance their video monitoring over to Diebold without having to exchange a single camera or without having to exchange a single keypad at the door.
All you do is you roll out SecureStat and then you can connect with the Diebold remote center.
And now with our partnership with Eagle Eye you can actually also do the whole thing in the cloud which will give you yet more flexibility.
So we're rolling out SecureStat with just about every one of our wins that we are picking up these days.
Great thank you for the color.
That's it from me guys congrats on the quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
And we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Kyle and thank you everyone for joining our call today.
As always feel free to reach out to myself or Steve with any follow-up questions.
Thanks again.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Diebold Incorporated's Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Steve Virostek.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Anthony and thanks to everyone who is joining us today over the phone and on the Web for Diebold's second quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO; and Chris Chapman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to our earnings release we've posted presentation slides on the IR page of diebold.com.
We will reference this presentation during today's comments and we encourage you to follow along.
Right now I am on slide two.
I'd like to remind our listeners that consistent with the company's prior practice we exclude restructuring charges and certain non-routine expenses from our non-GAAP financial metrics.
We believe that excluding these items provides a helpful indicator of the company's baselines performance as well as many of our remarks today will focus on the non-GAAP financial information.
So for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP please refer to the supplemental materials at the end of the presentation.
Moving to the next slide number three I'd like to remind our listeners that some of our comments may be considered forward-looking statements and our actual performance may deviate from these statements.
They are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to our detailed discussion of risk factors on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A replay of this webcast will be available later today.
Please keep in mind that the information discussed is only current as of today and subsequent events may render the information in this webcast out of date.
And now I'd like to hand the call over to Andy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning and welcome to all participants who joined our webcast today.
In the second quarter we hit the ball down the middle of the stairway with results that were in line with our expectations.
We delivered solid revenue growth in our core businesses.
FSS revenue increased by 5% as reported and 13% in constant currency.
Security revenue increased by 7% as reported and 8% in constant currency.
Strong double-digit order growth in EMEA where we are increasing our market share helped the company generate modest total order growth in constant currency.
Excluding China and Brazil where market specific headwinds are weighing on our results orders were up solidly.
We expanded our gross margin by 10 basis points on a GAAP basis and 50 basis points on a non-GAAP (3:05) basis.
Both gains were propelled by our service margin.
We reported non-GAAP EPS of $0.44 for the quarter.
Before saying much more about our second quarter results I would like to provide an update on our Diebold 2.0 transformation.
Two years ago I joined the company and together as a leadership team we began to develop a playbook for Diebold's turnaround which focused on four pillars: cost cash talent and growth.
We announced a multi-year plan to transform Diebold into a services-led software-enabled company supported by innovative hardware in a three-phased approach which we labeled crawl walk run.
During the crawl phase most of our work was focused on taking out cost and reinvesting about half of these savings in our business.
We improved gross margin by approximately 300 basis points as service gross margin increased by approximately 500 basis points and we were able to stabilize product margin.
We expanded our operating profit margins by approximately 100 basis points.
Our improved cost structure and stronger internal systems are enabling Diebold to build a solid foundation for the long-term.
Since beginning our transformation journey we reversed a multi-year trend of declining cash flow and delivered free cash flow in excess of 90% of NOPAT in 2014.
With respect to talent over the past two years we have become a destination for talent in the industry.
Approximately 60% of the broader leadership team is new to Diebold in the past two years with many leaders joining from top technology services and software companies.
Turing to the growth pillar we've improved our trajectory and have recently accelerated growth in the core FSS and electronic security businesses.
This is a result of our broader solution set enhanced IP and our efforts to drive more strategic collaboration with our customers.
This enables us to pursue more of the total addressable market organically and inorganically and gain market share.
The Phoenix acquisition is a prime example.
Our recent track record is encouraging and the leadership team sees significant opportunities to accelerate mix shift toward services and software and increase share during the walk phase of our transformation.
We're focused on increasing the percentage of recurring monthly revenue from software and services alike which typically improves visibility and value.
In most cases these are also the faster growth areas within our industry.
Our value added services growth focus includes managed multi-vendor as well as professional services.
For the software business the recent acquisition of Phoenix has significantly enhanced our ability to capture more of the market.
The objective to make Phoenix the nucleus of our software business is tracking to plan.
All of Diebold's global software activities are now coordinated through our new development center in London Ontario where we are preserving and building upon our independent hardware-agnostic client server approach to software.
When acquiring this asset we had two key strategic objectives.
First to gain market share by combining the best multi-vendor software offering in the industry with Diebold's global sales coverage and extensive customer relationships.
And second to strengthen our competitive position with this best-in-class software offering.
I'm pleased to report we have early success on both fronts.
At Banorte we landed an inaugural win in Latin America deploying Phoenix software across the bank's 7 000 multi-vendor ATM network in Mexico.
This win was a direct result of Phoenix's industry-leading multi-vendor software and Diebold's strong presence in the region which illustrates the revenue synergy potential of this acquisition.
This win is significant because it expands the market reach of Phoenix beyond its historical presence in predominantly English-speaking countries.
At Westpac we're upgrading the bank's fleet of approximately 3 000 ATMs in Australia which is made up entirely of our competitor's hardware.
What is most exciting about this contract win is that we're upgrading multiple software platforms to a single standard driven by our Phoenix software.
An important objective of the walk phase is to improve our mix of services and software.
As you can see from slide eight we are on the trajectory to achieving our goal of greater than 60% of total revenue coming from services and software.
Needless to say large product orders can impact individual quarters so the revenue mix improvement will not necessarily follow a linear path.
Additionally revenue from large multi-year service deals would only be recognized as the work is being performed over time.
We have always asserted that our services and software would be underpinned by innovative hardware.
And to that end we will launch two additional financial self service terminals with modular hardware flexible software and increased serviceability.
This makes six new terminal launches over the past 10 months providing us with the most current family of product in the industry.
Consistent with our commitment to collaborative innovation with our customers we will further invest in R&amp;D and services as well as building up our IP to drive market-leading portfolio solutions.
While we cannot simply shift gears overnight and begin the next phase our Diebold 2.0 achievements coupled with our financial results indicate that we're transitioning to walk in the second half of 2015.
Focusing on the second quarter performance and looking at order activity we had another terrific performance in EMEA with order growth of more than 30% in constant currency.
We had solid performance around the globe during the quarter however factors specific to Brazil and China continue to weigh on the business environment.
As a result total orders were up modestly year-over-year on a constant currency basis.
If you were to exclude China and Brazil orders were up mid single-digits.
In developed markets financial institutions are beginning to adopt more automation technology to improve the retail banking experience reduce operating cost and create new revenue streams.
The industry is in an early stage of a three to five-year trend for branch transformation and we are well-positioned to help our customers through this multi-year technology upgrade cycle.
In this spirit we are breaking into a large competitive FSS accounts in North America by leading with our services capabilities.
The service business is up 5% during the quarter on a constant currency basis in this region.
One of those wins to highlight is a new multi-vendor services contract for 2 500 non-Diebold ATMs with a top three financial institution based in North America.
With this agreement the customer is entrusting us with a significant portion of their FSS assessment for the first time in five years.
We also landed a competitive win with the world's largest independent ATM deployer for 2 200 ATMs and the related services at retail locations across the United States.
After our first quarter win at Walmart for managed services and ATMs and our Phoenix software presence at Publix this represents another major in-road into the retail FSS segment.
Looking at EMEA our targeted account strategy is resulting in ongoing market share gains.
Using data from Retail Banking Research Diebold unit shipments increased by 20% in 2014 in this geography while the market was essentially flat.
We extended last year's momentum with several new wins in the quarter.
At Banco Sabadell one of the top five banks in Spain we signed a five-year multi-vendor service contract covering more than 2 000 ATMs as well as the delivery of 800 new ATMs.
At Al Rajhi Bank in Saudi Arabia we secured a branch automation win for 300 units that will automate transactions and reduce operation expenses by more than half.
And also at one the largest French banks we were awarded a multi-year professional services deal.
Latin America is an early proof point of our business expansion strategy.
We are winning a majority of the FSS business in the market however overall orders were down on a year-to-year compared due to the softness in the Brazilian market.
On the other hand in Mexico we grew orders double-digits including an order for more than 2 000 ATMs equipped with our unique anti-skimming technology our largest ActivEdge order to-date.
We have a similar story in Asia Pacific where total orders were negatively impacted by reduced volumes in China where the government is encouraging banks to increase their use of domestic technology providers.
We are combating these headwinds with double-digit growth in services in the AP regions as banks innovate their business models.
Turning to electronic security we grew orders by 11% in constant currency and posted our seventh consecutive quarter of meaningful order growth.
We added 25 new logos to our ES business including ConocoPhillips the September 11 Memorial in New York Knowledge Universe and two national rental car companies.
Our electronic security business is growing faster than the broader market with double-digit revenue growth in the quarter and year-to-date.
Additionally it was encouraging for our electronic securities team to be recognized as Installer of the Year by Security Sales &amp; Integration Magazine in April.
Turning to our guidance for 2015 we're maintaining our outlook for total revenue and all non-GAAP metrics.
With respect to revenue mix we are increasing the outlook for FSS while decreasing our expectations for Brazil other.
At the halfway point of the year we are encouraged by the 8% constant currency growth in our core business backlog which is attributable to our recent momentum and success with large accounts.
The good news is that we are winning more large deals and we now have the product order backlog as well as the recurring services revenue to deliver on our full-year outlook.
Chris will elaborate more on the timing of these deals.
To summarize we had a solid quarter generating top line growth in our core business.
When we launched the Diebold 2.0 transformation we knew that most of our success was within our control.
The newly formed leadership team has demonstrated an ability to deliver on these expectations.
As we begin to enter the walk phase we will continue to execute on cost cash and talent while placing a greater emphasis on improving our revenue mix and sustaining our top line growth especially in services and software.
We remain upbeat about the opportunities emerging from the transformation taking place within our industry and our company.
Before I conclude my prepared remarks as you might have seen in our announcement this morning the company continues to streamline and simplify its leadership structure and as a result we eliminated the COO position.
On a personal note I want to thank George Mayes for his help during my first two years at Diebold.
We wish George all the best in the next steps in his career.
With that I'll turn the call over to Chris for more details on our financial performance.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
I will start off by walking through our second quarter financial performance and then provide an update on our 2015 outlook.
Starting on slide 11 in the second quarter total revenue as reported was flat to prior year.
In constant currency however total revenue increased approximately 8%.
Focusing on our core business FSS and security grew 5% as reported or approximately 12% in constant currency.
This growth in our core business more than offset the decline in Brazil other business which had significant activity in the second quarter of 2014.
North America had solid constant currency growth of approximately 14% driven by strong activity in both the FSS and electronic security business.
Additionally Latin America excluding Brazil other had growth of more than 30% in constant currency with our strong order activity over the last several quarters driving the revenue growth.
Finally EMEA grew 8% in constant currency for the quarter while Asia Pacific was down 6% adjusted for currency.
As you can see on our slides currency continues to have a significant impact on our 2015 results.
In the quarter currency headwinds negatively impacted total revenue by approximately 8%.
As we move to slide 12 financial self-service revenue increased approximately 5% as reported.
On a constant currency basis FSS revenue grew 13% with three of our four regions reporting growth in the quarter versus the prior year period.
Revenue in Asia Pacific declined in the quarter by 8% in constant currency primarily due to declines in China where the government has implemented an initiative to shift a significant percentage of technology related purchases from foreign providers to local suppliers.
North America grew in the high-teens in constant currency primarily due to large national account projects.
On a constant currency basis EMEA increased approximately 8% as we continue to gain share by executing our account-focused strategy in the region.
In Latin America we had nearly 40% growth adjusting for currency driven by the strong activity we previously highlighted.
Total security revenue on slide 13 increased approximately 7% or 8% in constant currency.
Electronic security revenue increased approximately 12% or 15% in constant currency with a 2% decline in our physical security business.
Electronic security represented approximately two-thirds of our total security revenue in the quarter.
Our electronic security growth has continued to outpace the market growth rates as our investments in people and technology are paying off.
Looking at slide 14 Brazil other declined approximately $36 million versus prior year with minimal activity reported during the period.
On slide 15 total gross margin improved 50 basis points to 26% on a non-GAAP basis.
This improvement was driven by 100 basis point expansion in service gross margin to 31.8%.
We're pleased with the continued service gross margin improvement over the past several quarters which resulted from our global service transformation efforts and improved mix of higher margin services.
Product gross margin slightly decreased by 20 basis points to 18.5% primarily the result of geographic mix and higher volume of national account business in North America.
Moving on to slide 16 total operating expense was 20.1% of revenue compared with 19.3% in the prior year period reflecting a $6.5 million increase for the quarter.
The increase was due to higher foundational reinvestment tied to our transformation.
Consistent with our prior outlook we expect our pace of reinvestments to begin to ramp down towards the end of the year.
In addition the recent acquisitions of Phoenix and Cryptera were not in our prior year results.
Turning to slide 17 we have realized $63 million in net cost savings since the program's beginning.
We had reinvestments in the first half of 2015 of $12 million and expect approximately $20 million in reinvestments for the full year.
As we have discussed on previous calls the vast majority of our reinvestments are hitting in operating expense while approximately two-thirds of the savings come through in the gross profit line.
For the year we're on track to realize $40 million in gross savings which after investments will result in additional $20 million in net program savings.
Turning to slide 18 non-GAAP operating profit decreased approximately 6% but was flat on a constant currency basis from the prior year.
Our operating margin decreased 40 basis points (22:44) reflecting our reinvestments.
Looking at operating profit by segment on slide 19 North America improved $1.6 million versus the prior year benefiting from increased volume in our national account business and continued cost improvements resulting from our service transformation efforts.
Asia Pacific improved $1 million driven by higher service revenue and margin performance as we focus on expanding the services segment of our business.
This has been partially offset by lower product volume in China.
EMEA decreased approximately $8 million due to the impact of currency and mix of business across the region as we face a tough comparison with the prior year.
In Latin America operating profit increased by $4.5 million driven by strong performance in Mexico and Colombia which more than offset the impact of the Brazil other business.
The change in the global and corporate line reflects the business reinvestments we're making.
In summary we are pleased with the broad-based momentum across our regions.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation on slide 20 non-GAAP EPS was $0.44 for the quarter.
This excludes restructuring charges of $0.08 legal indemnification and professional fees of $0.04 $0.01 related to Brazil indirect tax and a benefit of $0.03 primarily related to the allocation of discrete tax items.
The non-GAAP effective tax rate came in at 27.8% and is 27.3% on a year-to-date basis.
Moving on to free cash flow on slide 21 our results in the quarter reflect a $52 million free cash use which improved approximately $20 million from the same period last year.
This is primarily due to improved working capital performance.
Turning to slide 22 DSO reflected an increase of two days to 61 days in the quarter versus the same period last year primarily due to timing of revenue within the quarter as well as geographic mix.
Inventory turns improved increasing to 5.2 turns compared with 4.6 turns in the second quarter 2014 reflecting continued improvements in our global supply chain.
Net debt on slide 23 for the period was $306 million an increase of $259 million from year-end 2014.
As noted in the first quarter call the increase in net debt is largely attributable to the acquisition of Phoenix adverse exchange rates on cash balances as well as working capital expansion to support our growth.
The company's net debt-to-capital ratio was 27% at the end of the current quarter and 5% at the end of 2014.
In June of this year we entered into a second amendment to our existing credit agreement which provides for a new $230 million Term Loan A with a scheduled maturity of August 2019.
The company received the full proceeds and applied it to the existing credit facility.
The amended credit agreement continues to provide a revolving credit facility with availability of up to $520 million.
This move increases our liquidity and strengthens our ability to finance the $175 million of private placement debt expiring in the first quarter of 2016.
Looking at our outlook on slide 24 we are maintaining our full year 2015 total revenue guidance.
However the composition of revenue is expected to shift more towards our core business.
We're raising our revenue outlook for financial self-service from flat to up 2% to growth of 1% to 3% on an as-reported basis.
At the same time we are reducing our revenue expectations for the Brazil other business to reflect continued delays in purchase decisions emanating from the current political situation in that country.
We continue to expect currency headwinds of approximately 6% for the full year.
We're also maintaining our outlook for non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $1.70 to $1.90 and continue to expect a full year non-GAAP effective tax rate of about 30%.
While we don't provide quarterly guidance I'd like to give you some additional color for the remainder of the year.
We have a higher backlog in our core business.
However it's comprised of more large deals than at the same time last year.
Based on the current installation schedules of these large projects combined with the fact that we expect a sizable reduction in our reinvestment spend it is likely that about two-thirds of our second half earnings will come through in the fourth quarter.
Finally we are maintaining our free cash flow outlook for the year of approximately $120 million which includes an approximate $5 million increase in capital expenditures and a $10 million voluntary contribution to our North America pension plans which we made in the first quarter.
Overall our second quarter results indicate that we're on track to meet our full year expectations.
We are delivering consistent results and are executing on our Diebold 2.0 strategy while also improving our control environment.
As Andy highlighted we are encouraged by the momentum we are creating to become a more services-led software-enabled company.
Our recent multi-vendor services wins new Phoenix software contracts increasing service profitability and growth in our core business gives us confidence as we transition to the walk phase of our transformation.
We still face some near-term challenges some of which are outside our control such as the situation in China and Brazil but we are confident that through our transformation efforts we are laying a strong foundation for long-term sustainable growth and profitability.
With that I'll open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
Our first question comes from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
Wanted to talk about some of the regions you mentioned.
So China this has been an issue that seems to have been getting worse.
Do you expect that business to just go away over time that the Chinese banks will eventually all (29:54) from the incumbent – from the local provider? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Gil.
It's Andy.
You're correct.
China has basically moved the goalpost.
If you take a look at what has happened over let's say the last 20 years in the beginning it was okay to operate in China as a wholly-owned foreign entity then multinational companies were okay and today you got to be more Chinese to do business in China.
Now the task for all tech companies including ourselves is to come up with a strategy of how we comply with that approach towards being more Chinese while at the same time making sure we adhere to U.S.
business practices and make sure adhere to the processes and controls that we've implemented in our company.
So this is – it's a big to do.
It's not a trivial situation.
It's something that we are working on a lot and we think we'll going to come up with a really good answer but not something you want to rush into.
Inc.</span></strong> And then Brazil it seems like the level of activity there is tied to the political situation.
Is it now at a point where you're at a base line maintenance level of activity or could we see even more declines there as with continued political uncertainty? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Gil to your point like in all countries our sizeable installed base and our big service business always provides a floor to our revenue in any geography.
That also holds true in Brazil.
We would expect that we're somewhere at a base line.
And if you take a look at the country while it is going through rough times at the moment as an economy the long-term perspective for the company is still very positive and in the long run Brazil will turn back into a growth opportunity.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then finally on Europe you talked about unfavorable mix driving the operating profit down there.
What's the mix shift more specifically there that – and is it something that's just based on the tough comps or specific to the quarter? Yeah it's just really based on the tough comps.
Again it was just a mix of some customer projects that we had last year that had fairly nice margins and then year-over-year we got a little bit different mix of the overall business than we did in previous year.
That's the big driver.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Joe Radigan with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
First on product gross margin I believe you cited geographic mix as one the primary reasons for the product gross margin decline but North America was up 13% which is your most profitable region.
Is it really just a function of the mix between customers within North America or is there – are you seeing increased pricing pressure or is there something else going on there? No.
With regards to your last point I'm not seeing increasing price pressure in North America.
The big thing within North America that you hit upon there higher portion of national regional account activity down and there's a big disparity in the margins between (33:39) pieces of the business.
That's the big driver.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Andy on the decision to eliminate the COO position I guess why now? Is it just that your comfort level around the new leadership that you've brought in? Is it where your – the progress you've made on the transformation effort? Just maybe a little background on the timing of that decision.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Look these are always tough decisions to make.
But as a company we've been putting a lot of effort in taking out management layers streamlining the organization hiring great talent as close to the customer as possible.
And when you do that we've done that – we started doing that in the middle management ranges at the beginning of our turnaround.
At some point in time you also have to do it at the top of the organization.
At the end it will also increase our decision-making processes and it'll make us a little bit more customer-centric in our approach going forward.
Why now? Well we are right at the turning point between a crawl phase that we've pretty much concluded.
We've put our processes in control.
We have our systems.
We feel very comfortable that the cost containment thought process is becoming part of the general DNA of the company.
And then we're opening a new chapter on the walk side of the house where we're going more into a services-led software-enabled business which will ultimately require a slightly different.
And if we want to add gross (35:22) to the picture also a more scalable management model.
That's why.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Lipton with Autonomous Research.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Just wanted to talk about the services gross margin first lots of new activity on managed service agreement and multi-vendor deals.
Can you talk about relative to the company average of 32% versus gross margin? How additive these deals can be or what happened? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> First of all we only do deals that at the end of the day are accretive to the company.
So we're very – and all these large deals you want to choose very wisely because everyone of them is going to be a long-term engagement of the company with a customer.
It's also a long-term partnership that you're entering into.
From a cost point of view services anywhere you look at the world is the utilization game.
So we're making certain that we have a invent once reuse often model.
So for instance take the managed services agreement – the multi-vendor services agreement that we had in the U.S.
we had major win in Q1 with BBVA Compass.
And that's pretty much an East Coast-centric type of customer.
So as we were expanding our multi-vendor services activities we made sure we're looking for geographies where we can reuse the people that we're training on other people's gear and get again good leverage out of those workforces.
So you want to be very smart about how you do it.
There is always a little bit of a ramp-up in that business but we're very confident and we see that as a big growth path for the company going forward.
Got it.
I guess real quick Chris on OpEx with Phoenix in the numbers a bit this quarter.
Was that a noticeable inorganic help to the services margin – gross margin? (37:47) No it's not large enough to swing the numbers.
Again the Phoenix activity is accretive and it will continue to be accretive both on the gross margin side.
For the full year as we indicated last time it's probably going to be a little more neutral to earnings with all the integration costs and everything else from that perspective but it's not large enough to move the needle significantly at this time but we'll continue to improve it over the quarters to come.
Got it.
And then shifting gears just wanted to talk about Australia very quick.
It's not a market that I know very well or I've ever heard anyone in the ATM business talk about but I saw that you did sign up a new multi-vendor deal there which potentially gives you a better foothold in that country.
Is it also an underserved market similar to kind of the experience you had in UK in Spain where you might be able to go in and take share with a product and services footprint? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Australia is a very unique market.
It's also always a test market for the Asian players on just about any technology.
The thing to highlight is our win in Australia is a software win.
So at Westpac we – there's not a single Diebold machine in the account.
They had multiple software vendors.
They were a Phoenix legacy account to a certain degree and they also had a big chunk of software from one of our main competitors and some other stuff.
And the customer wanted to standardize have one platform one user approach one common look and feel and they chose the best product they could find and it was Phoenix.
So we're very excited.
If anything it's a good indication that the vendor-independent approach that we have with the software is applicable and it's applicable in geographies and in accounts where we have not even been in before so it – and largest TAM that we have as a company.
And we're extremely encouraged that we were able to grow a legacy Phoenix account into something really big under the new combined company.
Our next question comes from Matt Summerville with Alembic Global Advisors.
Morning.
Couple of question.
First can you talk about how we should think about those sequential cadence in both product and service margins second half of the year versus the first half? And then it sounds to me like there's a lull going on in the small bank market in North America probably in this post Windows 7 sort of timeframe (40:35) that section of the marketplace reaccelerating? Hi Matt.
This is Chris.
I'll take the first half of that.
With regards to second half margins and we've talked about this in the past I don't expect the service margins to always follow a nice linear path.
The third quarter typically we have some underutilization in a couple of the markets especially a market like Europe where you have a pretty big holiday schedule.
So typically the third quarter service margins we would see those come down and this year would be no different and then ramp back up on a full year basis in the fourth quarter as we see a little more utilization.
Product margins expect to be fairly well in line with what you've seen on a year-to-date basis based on the mix of activity we currently see.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And then with regard to – yes go ahead.
No I was just going to repeat my second question.
Sorry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No we didn't forget you.
So with regard to North America I think your observation is correct.
The regional banks open the first strings (41:45) during the Windows 7 upgrade.
When you do that you always do a little bit more than what you have to do and we benefited from that last year.
Right now if you take a look at who is heavily investing you'll see the larger financial institutions more on the forefront which is why we're so excited that we're now back in two of the three top banks in North America.
And I would expect the regional's to come back to the table as EMV is looming around the corner.
But as you know there is no hard date no cliff that you're managing to so that will probably be more towards the end of the year going into the new year.
The one thing that we see and we're still very – it's early and we're careful about it but we see more and more interest in the regional's bank space around our managed service offerings around ATMs and ATM upgrades.
And that's an area that we put a lot of energy into and that we think is going to yield good results for the company in the out years.
One of the things that had been talked about in the past was on these bigger managed service deals and certainly there's lots of different things you've been talking about the last two quarters at least.
I guess what – if you had to point to one or two things – and there was always statements like that these are multi-year discussions it sort of takes forever like why is the logjam just breaking now? Why are all these deals coming down Diebold's way all of a sudden? And I guess what does the go forward funnel look like on these bigger transactions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Great question.
Look I've always said pursuit on these deals is anywhere between 12 months and as much as 24 months.
We started to go down that route as early as late 2013 when we talked about change in the trajectory of the company to being a services-led software-enabled company.
And if you basically add 18 months to the end of 2013 you're here and now.
So it's actually a normal – that's a normal development of a sales funnel that has been building over the last one to two years.
And looking forward I'm encouraged about the level of conversations that we're having.
And if you also recall at some of the earlier calls I said these big deals are like penguins off the iceberg.
And let me take Spain as a great example here.
If you recall last year our big services deal was Bankia where we did the total implementation services for that bank for some 2 000 machines.
And about a year later there is a second Spanish bank that goes down the very same route goes into a managed services agreement with us with Banco Sabadell.
And because they're all watching each other in the market and if a model is innovative if a model is attractive and shows positive result in the market word gets around and your funnel increases.
So we're very upbeat about the opportunities but again they will take their time and they're going to work themselves through the system.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Saliq Khan with Imperial Capital.
Great.
Thank you.
Hey Andy during the first quarter you had announced a deal with Walmart where Diebold had replaced a competitor.
Could you give us an update on the relationship and the installation progress? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Happy to.
Relationship is good and installation is going well.
This – it's all tracking to plan.
Now keep in mind Walmart – when Chris talks about timing you've probably highlighted one of the biggest elements of that because as you can imagine the retailers will not let you do anything in their stores as innovative as it may be in the pre-holiday shopping season.
So the majority of the rollout will actually be in the beginning of 2016.
Got it.
As you are looking at particularly within securities because you saw a pretty big uptick within electronic security revenues what has been the factor in regards to you winning new electronic security contracts and retaining those clients? I guess my question essentially is what are these clients coming to you for what's the big need that they need that Diebold's able to plug the hole in? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In my mind there's three elements to the answer.
First if you recall we said 18 months ago that we're going to increase the amount of sales people that we add to this electronic securities team and we were able to attract really good folks.
We increased our workforce by roughly 40 50 folks at the time.
And that goes back to the old sales axiom that you sell more when you show up.
So that is just working itself through the funnel.
The activity has been building and people are now closing deals.
Second our technology especially around SecureStat is such a unique opportunity.
If you remember SecureStat is pretty much a portal that enables you to switch your electronic security provider without having to upgrade or even forklift any of the equipment that you have in the building.
So if you guys in your company wanted us to monitor your offices you could give us a call tomorrow.
We'll put SecureStat on your server and we'll switch you over to our monitoring center.
The minimum switching cost give customer a choice to go to a company – and now it's the third aspect of the sales approach.
As you know we only focus on large accounts national or large regionals.
And it's the same thing that we have on the FSS side in our targeted account strategy that we have in Europe.
When you have a targeted account strategy you do nothing but that type of business nothing but that type of support it shows up in the level of quality and the level of dedication and the level of service you give to a customer and customers like it.
So you combine all three and then if you want to sprinkle a little pixie dust on top of it we've just done this teamwork with Eagle Eye which is a really innovative cloud-centric video solution.
We've got a very attractive value proposition in our ES business.
No we know the guys at Eagle Eye pretty well and it's a pretty unique proposition that they have from a product and solution perspective.
But the last question I had for you was we kind of hinted upon this earlier in the conversation as well but while much of what is going on in China is out of anyone's control what are you doing right now to offset the decline in revenues from APAC? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the answer to this one is services and software.
If you put China it falls into two buckets.
Decrease in our product revenue and if you want to be even more specific the bigger the bank the larger the decline because that's where the government of course is leaning on the most but the offset is the service revenue within China but also the service revenue within the region.
And you can see – and I don't think it's by happenstance.
We talked about the Phoenix win in Australia earlier.
On previous calls we talked about our very successful managed service business that we have in India and in Southeast Asia.
It's not by happenstance that this – the market is going this way because the banks are really all over Asia trying to innovate their business models and we're very well positioned to take advantage of that.
And if you balance all of that out we think we can offset quite a lot of the China headwind any given quarter it might be a tough comp.
Thank you Andy.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you help us understand what specifically changed since last quarter that's leading you to raise your financial self-service guidance today? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We won more deals.
Was that just primarily – like I said just globally is it North America? I mean I know that you saw a lot of market share gains in Europe Middle East Africa.
Was it Europe that helped you increase your guidance today or was it just globally or just winning more deals? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Meghna the great thing is we see very positive momentum all around the globe.
We've had great deals in Southeast Asia.
We've got some great successes especially in the Middle East and Africa and Western Europe right up there on the forefront.
Let me just take the UK as an example.
We talked about our account-centric approach.
We were able to lever in a relationship that we have with one of the largest banks in the world with HSBC and used that as an entry into the UK and (52:06) HSBC has gone from being a complete competitive account to being a very attractive account for Diebold.
We gained some significant market share in the UK.
We talked about the big win that we had in Spain.
We've got big wins in North America.
So Latin America while Brazil weighs on the overall number again it's one of those funny things about the geography and as long as I've been in business in LatAm for the last 20 years there's always a seesaw effect whenever Brazil is down Mexico is up.
And that's again the case in this cycle and we're taking great advantage of it.
We've got incredible flow share in Mexico in 2014 and especially now in 2015.
So lot of goodness.
And then you add on top of all we've introduced our next-gen product line.
Customer feedback is very positive.
We've got the most current product line in the industry.
So between movement in the market good sales activities on the Diebold side and a great product line we feel extremely excited about the FSS space.
And then you add services around it as a springboard into long-term repetitive recurring monthly revenue and we like our hand.
That's great Andy.
Thank you so much for the color.
Just a quick question on capital allocation.
Are you still considering smaller digestible software type acquisitions or could there be possibility of a larger acquisition if the right opportunity presents itself? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Meghna this is the tech industry.
Anything is possible.
We have a very prudent approach to M&amp;A.
We will – we've said from the very beginning that wherever we think a buy versus make will help us to gain more IP or more market access sooner than if we were to do it home-grown that we would entertain it assuming – and that's the big line that we draw in the sand assuming the acquisition is accretive.
And if you take a look at our tuck-ins that we've done with Cryptera and with Phoenix they're both on a very good trajectory.
We just did the one year review of Cryptera.
It's actually ahead of the business case that we had at the time.
So we're feeling very good.
When and if the right opportunity presents itself and it meets all the hurdle rates that we're putting on to the company and our decision-making process we do have the firepower to pull the trigger but we're not rushing into anything.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Good morning Andy.
Good morning Chris.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Justin.
Morning.
Wanted to address a couple of things.
Starting with share gains you called out that you're taking share in EMEA and I think you cited 20% growth versus a flat market.
If you maybe could sort of quantify or just remind us the magnitude of the share gains in EMEA and to what extent are you gaining share in other regions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Justin in 2014 it was roughly 20% if you take RBR as your baseline.
Also if you to take a look at our numbers both orders and revenues were up around 20%.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So very consistent between unit and revenue.
And again this is all centered around targeted accounts especially in the UK Spain France some of the other countries there.
And we talked about Asia-Pac where we're gaining market especially in the avian markets in India and we're also back in the large account business in North America.
I mean the reason why we're so excited about the one big services win is because the customer pretty much had a five-year hiatus in terms of procurement from Diebold and we got back out of that.
We're back in the game.
So if you take a look at where we're scoring we're winning more large deals than we've done in a long time.
And that's very encouraging.
Great.
It certainly seems like you are.
With respect to service the multi-vendor service agreements that you noted were signed this quarter are those part of your order book in the second quarter? And is it possible to give us any idea as to sort of the magnitude of these agreements like annual dollars for Diebold? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Great question Justin.
So first of all unless we have already started work these would not be part in our Q2 numbers.
Now if there's a product element to it that would be part of the orders number because when you look at orders we have product orders and we have total orders so product orders would show up.
In the total orders number you would only have the service revenue as it's performed.
All of these deals are in their infancy when it comes to the implementation.
So there's upside for the service revenue as you look into 2016.
If you're trying to get a ballpark the TCV number that we're looking at so total contract value and these are anywhere between three- to five-year deals.
If we take a look at the year-to-date number we're well north of the $150 million marker of deals that we've signed year-to-date and we expect this number to continue to go up before the end of the year.
Great.
When you say – just to clarify.
When you say you're well north of $150 million signed year-to-date what metric are you referring to? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's TCV.
So very simple let's say you do a five year deal with $5 million service revenue per annum that would be $25 million TCV.
And it will show up over the course of the next five years at a clip rate of $5 million which is also when you look at the model Justin these things service deals never create a spike in the model.
They are very steady increases because rev rec is per month per quarter of service performed you cannot recognize revenue anytime sooner but the good news is it really builds a groundswell that will give you long-term uplift on your services numbers for 2016 2017 and beyond.
Okay great.
Two quick questions if I may.
Can you remind us how large China is within APAC? And do you expect to maintain a lot of the service business notwithstanding the changes that are occurring in China or is that still to be determined? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me start with the service thing.
Same answer that I gave earlier on Brazil.
Service provides the floor to our activity in the country.
And Chris you want to size it up? Yeah.
If you looked at total size of China it's roughly 40% 45% of the total Asia Pacific activity from a top line standpoint that we see today.
Okay great.
And then finally the restructuring was upsized a bit in your annual guidance.
Could you clarify that? Yeah.
It's a couple of items.
Number one we've talked about the situations in China and Brazil.
And we're not sitting back admiring the problem.
We continue to take cost out and look at our cost actions to get us in the right place in 2016 as well.
That's one aspect of it.
And then the other piece of that really is we have some high cost restructuring activities that are out there as well.
And so that's also driving the spike.
If you look at our total call-out items major change was the restructuring item.
Total SEC legal fees stayed the same at approximately $0.12 to $0.13 that we said in the first quarter and that seems to be on track.
So the biggest change was the restructuring.
Great.
Thank so much.
It appears we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Virostek for any additional closing remarks.
Great.
I want to thank everybody for joining us today.
The replay webcast will be available later today.
We appreciate your interest.
Thank you very much.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Diebold Incorporated's Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Virostek.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Hannah.
I'd like to welcome everyone who's joining us today for Diebold's third quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Chapman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In addition to our earnings release issued this morning we've posted presentation slides on the IR page of diebold.com.
We will be referencing the presentation during our commentary and we encourage you to follow along.
Today's webcast is being recorded and a replay of the webcast will be made available later today on deibold.com.
On slide two of our presentation we disclosed that we'll be making references to non-GAAP financial information on this webcast.
Consistent with the company's prior practice we exclude restructuring charges and certain non-routine expenses from our non-GAAP financial metrics.
We believe that these non-GAAP metrics provide a helpful indicator of the company's baseline performance.
And a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP metrics is included in the supplemental materials at the end of today's presentation.
Moving to the slide number three I'll remind you that certain comments made during our webcast may be characterized as forward-looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements.
Additional information concerning these factors is contained in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please keep in mind that the information discussed is only current as of today and subsequent events may render the information in this webcast out of date.
I'm sure many of the participants are aware that on October 17 Diebold announced that the company had entered into a non-binding term sheet agreement with Wincor Nixdorf regarding the key parameters of a potential strategic business combination.
Entering into a transaction is still subject to material conditions including the satisfactory completion of due diligence by both parties.
There can be no assurance that any binding agreement will be reached or that a public tender offer will be launched.
Diebold will have no further comments on any potential combination during today's webcast or until a binding agreement is reached or the discussions are terminated.
And now I'd like to hand the call to Andy Mattes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us.
As you can see from our recent announcements we've had quite a busy summer.
Our portfolio-shaping actions demonstrate that we have fully arrived in the walk phase of our transformation.
I will discuss these developments and speak to our third quarter operating highlights before handing the call to Chris.
This week we announced the divestiture of the North American electronic security business for $350 million in cash to Securitas an $8 billion global leader in security services.
The electronic security business provides access control video surveillance intrusion and fire protection solutions along with system design installation monitoring and security-related managed services.
The transaction achieves three business objectives.
First it places our electronic security customers in the very good hands of a larger company fully focused on delivering security solutions which will bring significant resources to enhance and grow this business.
Second the transaction sharpens our focus on the dynamic self-service industry and on the terrific growth opportunities which we are pursuing in the areas of branch automation and omni-channel.
Third it provides a source of capital for ramping up these activities and building up intellectual property necessary to deliver transformative solutions to our customers.
As an example of these activities the company introduced two new concept solutions at the Money 20/20 show in Las Vegas just a few days ago.
The first concept combines consumer recognition technology and a secure mobile phone app to execute cardless transactions.
The second concept is a dual-sided sell-service terminal which features video teller access and is capable of serving two customers simultaneously.
Going back to the divestiture carve-outs don't materialize overnight because they require a lot of preparation.
We have outlined a detailed transition plan which is designed to deliver a seamless experience for our electronic security customers.
The transition to Securitas benefits from the fact that this business has its own IT platform sales force installers technicians and monitoring facility.
The companies have also agreed to a strategic business alliance in which Securitas would become Diebold's preferred supplier for electronic security and Diebold will become the preferred supplier for Securitas in all areas relating to self-service.
Importantly the companies have agreed to collaborate on enhanced service offerings for our customers.
Irrespective of this divestiture ATM-related security is a key differentiator for Diebold in the market as demonstrated by innovative solutions such as our ActivEdge anti-skimming solution Cryptera PIN pad encryption technology and GAS logical security software.
We have long been the leader in self-service biometric identification in the Western world and we're taking our leadership capabilities to the next level by piloting an iris-scanning ATM concept with Citigroup as featured on The TODAY Show earlier this week.
This is a prime example of Diebold's collaborative innovation approach with our customers.
In support of our services-led strategy we are retaining our physical security business which generated approximately $230 million of revenue over the last 12 months.
Nearly 80% of the business is services-related.
We are maintaining the physical assets of our customers which includes safe deposit boxes vaults vestibules after-hour depositories and drive-up solutions.
These skill sets are important enablers for connecting the physical and digital worlds of cash and they would benefit our self-service business in the area of branch transformation and next gen video-enabled drive-ups.
Now let's turn to Q3 results.
The company delivered $0.36 of EPS on a non-GAAP basis.
For our full year outlook we are narrowing our non-GAAP EPS range from $1.70 to $1.90 to a range of $1.75 to $1.85.
Chris will walk you through the puts and takes during his remarks.
In general we delivered good operational performance around globe.
However the political and economic environment in China and Brazil is weighing on our results.
In China we are working towards a longer-term solution and expect to be able to discuss a new approach going into 2016.
In Brazil we are narrowing the scope of our Brazil other business by eliminating large IT equipment government contracts from the mix thereby containing downsized exposure.
Earlier this year Brazil was rolled out into Latin America under the leadership of Octavio Marquez who upgraded the country manager adjusted our fixed cost structure and aligned the business with market reality.
Turning to total global orders we continue to see the effects of the strong U.S.
dollar in the third quarter.
In aggregate orders were down 7% as reported but increased 1% in constant currency.
Excluding China orders were up high-single digit in constant currency.
My regional comments will focus on FSS orders.
In North America orders grew by 4% year-on-year led by strong demand from the national players and increasing volumes of our new family of ATMs.
We're seeing a good take rate following several months of customer collaboration and education with respect to the increased functionality and lower total cost of ownership of the new line of ATMs.
It is encouraging to see that our services-led strategy continues to gain traction.
For example in North America we secured a multi-year contract with Wells Fargo to service more than 6 000 non-Diebold ATMs.
Wells is one of the top three banks in the United States and it's good to be back in this account in a meaningful way.
This is the fourth major multi-vendor services win in North America alone this year and we have added more than 11 000 non-Diebold ATMs to our contract base.
The other good news is that branch transformation continues to take hold across financial institutions of all sizes.
For example we deployed our first two-way video solution at Affinity Credit Union in Canada using the 9 900 in-lobby teller ATMs.
We also launched our Mobile Cash Access software at ALMA Bank in New York which facilitates cardless transactions via mobile phone.
And in Louisiana we secured a contract with IBERIABANK to upgrade nearly their entire fleet with ActivEdge anti-skimming card readers.
Developing testing and introducing these innovations and transformative solutions is no small undertaking.
We invest millions of dollars in R&amp;D to bring these innovations to market.
So it should be no surprise to anyone when we take strong action to protect our intellectual property as we have done with the Hyosung.
Turning to EMEA orders were up more than 20% in constant currency led by significant wins in the UK France Turkey and the African nations.
These wins were also spurred on by the new family of ATMs and our account-focused approach.
For example in Saudi Arabia we received a new product order from Riyad Bank for 100 new 5500 series ATMs.
We're doubling down on the Middle East and we recently opened up a new office in Dubai.
We look forward to delivering our innovative branch automation solutions to customers in that geography.
On a lighter note and in the spirit of Halloween we also just secured a competitive win in Romania with Transilvania Bank.
Moving onto the Asia-Pacific region orders were overshadowed by the Chinese government's buy local initiative which led to sizable reduction in total product orders.
Services in China by contrast are doing well and we reported 2% growth in the quarter and 12% growth year-to-date.
In Latin America we delivered another very strong quarter as orders increased more than 20% in constant currency boosted by strength in Mexico Ecuador and across the region.
In Brazil we won a new contract for 400 deposit automation ATMs with Bradesco the second-largest private bank in that country.
This win demonstrates Diebold's ability to bring innovation to the market and it is our first significant win in that account since they formed an alliance with a competitor of ours four years ago.
We also signed a $20 million five-year managed service contract with a top bank in Mexico following our Q2 win to install 2 200 ATMs with the ActivEdge anti-skimming card reader.
This outsourcing contract when combined with other services-led wins in the Americas and in Europe enabled the company to break through the $300 million mark for total contract value thus far in 2015.
As you can see Diebold's transformation towards a services-led software-enabled company is starting to manifest itself into our contracts.
Along these lines expanding the installed base that we are servicing is another avenue towards this goal.
We recently announced that the company had entered into a non-binding term sheet agreement with Wincor Nixdorf regarding the key parameters of a potential strategic business combination.
We are currently working our way through the diligent process.
As Steve said in his introduction there can be no assurance that we will reach a binding agreement and we cannot comment further at this time.
In conclusion we continue to make significant progress in the walk phase of the Diebold 2.0 transformation.
By reshaping our portfolio of businesses we are sharpening our focus on our self-service customers.
It is our mission to move up the value chain and become the strategic partner for financial institutions and retailers around the world.
We're moving closer to our goal of becoming a services-led software-enabled company.
And now Chris will discuss the financial details.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
I will start off by walking through our third quarter financial performance and then provide an update on our 2015 outlook.
Starting on slide nine in the third quarter total revenue as reported was down 11% compared to prior year and down 3% in constant currency.
The main drivers of the year-over-year change in the third quarter were significantly lower volume in our Brazil other business currency headwinds from the weakening of the real and slower product sales in China.
Our Latin America region excluding Brazil other delivered solid constant currency revenue growth of approximately 28% driven by strong delivery of product in the financial self-service business.
Additionally EMEA revenue grew more than 7% in constant currency as services growth outpaced product growth.
Finally North America increased approximately 1% in constant currency in the quarter while Asia-Pacific decreased 16% adjusted for currency.
As you can see on our slides currency continues to have a significant impact on our 2015 results.
In the quarter currency headwinds negatively impacted total revenue by approximately 9%.
As we move to slide 10 financial self-service revenue decreased approximately 7% as reported.
On a constant currency basis revenue grew 1% versus the prior year period led by growth in our services business.
Revenue in Asia-Pacific declined by approximately 13% in constant currency primarily due to a decrease in product revenue resulting from the Chinese government's buy local initiative.
North America revenue decreased approximately 4% in constant currency as higher national account activity partially offset the spin from regional banks which declined following strong Windows 7 upgrade activity in the prior year.
In EMEA we delivered constant currency growth of 7% led by solid contributions from both product and service.
In Latin America we reported nearly 26% growth adjusting for currency driven by broad-based growth including Brazil from the increasing sales of our new family of ATMs.
Total security revenue on slide 11 increased approximately 5% or 7% in constant currency.
Electronic security continues its solid performance with revenue increasing approximately 9% or 12% in constant currency as we prepare to transition the North America portion of this business to its new owner Securitas.
Revenue from our physical security business was down approximately 2% year-over-year as this business is beginning to stabilize.
Looking at slide 12 Brazil other declined approximately $54 million year-over-year as we delivered on a large lottery contract in the third quarter last year.
On slide 13 total gross margin decreased 130 basis points to 24.9% on a non-GAAP basis.
Service margin increased 10 basis points as we continue to benefit from our efforts to improve the mix of revenue and grow our Services business.
The product gross margin decreased 460 basis points to 16.6%.
This was primarily due to lower volume in our Brazil other business and the adverse impact of a $4.7 million inventory write-down related to the cancellation of two local government IT equipment projects in Brazil.
As Andy described we are narrowing the scope of the Brazil other business to focus primarily on lottery and election systems.
Moving on to slide 14 total operating expense was 20.2% of revenue compared with 19.5% in the prior-year period with overall spin down $12 million net of a $4.6 million bad debt reserve.
This overall operating expense reduction is an indication that reinvestments are beginning to ease in the second half of 2015.
The bad debt reserve is related to the cancellation of a previously awarded government contract for IT equipment in Brazil other.
Turning to slide 15 we have realized approximately $70 million in net cost savings since the program's beginning.
We had reinvestments year-to-date in 2015 of $16 million and still expect approximately $20 million in reinvestments for the full year.
As we have discussed on previous calls the vast majority of our reinvestments are hitting an operating expense while approximately two-thirds of the savings come through in the gross profit line.
For the year we are on track to realize $40 million in gross savings which after investments will result in an additional $20 million in net program savings.
Turning to slide 16 non-GAAP operating profit decreased approximately $20 million from the prior year and our operating margin was 4.6% due to lower volume in China and Brazil the cancelled IT equipment project in Brazil other of $9.3 million and reflected FX headwinds.
Looking at operating profit as reported by segment on slide 17 North America decreased $4.5 million versus the prior year driven by the increasing mix of national account business.
Asia-Pacific decreased $6.6 million as a result of lower product volume in China.
EMEA decreased $3.3 million due to the impact of currency and mix of business across the region.
In Latin America operating profit decreased by $13.9 million driven by Brazil other and FX headwinds.
The global and corporate line improved by $8.6 million reflecting our cost actions in addition to our reinvestments beginning to ease.
As noted in the previous quarter calls we have been taking action to control our spend and pace our reinvestments to help offset some of the headwinds I discussed earlier.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation on slide 18.
Non-GAAP EPS was $0.36 for the quarter which was in line with our commentary that we provided on the previous earnings call.
Non-GAAP EPS excludes restructuring charges of $0.08; legal indemnification and professional fees of $0.02; $0.03 related to acquisition and divestiture fees; and a benefit of $0.10 primarily related to the allocation of discrete tax items in accordance with our non-GAAP tax-rate procedures.
During the quarter the non-GAAP effective tax rate came in at 13.4% and is 23.2% on a year-to-date basis.
The decrease is attributable to the repatriation of foreign earnings and the associated recognition of foreign tax credits.
Moving on to free cash flow on slide 19.
Our results from the quarter reflect a $38 million free cash use which is unfavorable approximately $4 million from the same period last year.
This is primarily due to a change in working capital.
On a positive note we've launched several pieces of our new Oracle platform in North America providing enhanced visibility and efficiency as we replace our 30-plus-year-old systems.
As with any software implementation there is always a cutover period that can cause delays.
In our case the transition to our new service contract system resulted in invoicing delays of approximately two weeks in September.
As a result collections were impacted by approximately $20 million for the quarter.
Turning to slide 20.
DSO reflected an increase of two days to 67 days in the quarter versus the same period last year primarily due to the delayed service contract invoices for North America that I just discussed.
Inventory turns improved increasing to 5.2 turns compared with 4.4 in the third quarter 2014 reflecting lower volume in China and Brazil as well as continued improvements in our global supply chain.
Net debt on slide 21 for the period was $402 million an increase of $355 million from year-end 2014.
The increase in net debt is largely attributable to the acquisition of Phoenix continued adverse exchange rate impact on cash balances as well as working capital expansion to support our business.
Turning to slide 22.
The company is narrowing its outlook for non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $1.75 to $1.85 for the full year 2015.
While there are a number of moving pieces at a high level we are maintaining the midpoint of our previous EPS guidance.
We have two significant negative impacts to EPS for the year since our previous guidance: $0.12 tied to the write-offs from the cancelled Brazil IT equipment projects and approximately $0.08 from increased FX headwinds.
On the positive side these items are being offset by a more favorable non-GAAP effective tax rate resulting from the realization of foreign tax credits tied to the repatriation of foreign earnings.
The non-GAAP effective tax rate is now expected to be approximately 21% for the year.
We expect total revenue to be down 7% to 8% for 2015 primarily due to the increased FX headwinds.
We are now expecting a currency headwind of approximately 8% for the full year.
Looking at the businesses FSS revenue is expected to be down approximately 1% as reported but up around 6% in constant currency.
Security revenue is now expected to be approximately 2% as reported.
Brazil other revenue should be around $20 million for the year.
Finally we are reducing our free cash flow outlook to be approximately $100 million for the year primarily due to the change in our expected GAAP operating results which are inclusive of fees related to the pending divestiture and potential acquisition.
Overall we are encouraged by the momentum we are seeing across the majority of our business.
We are managing through challenges such as the situation in China and Brazil.
Irrespective of strategic moves we remain focused on serving our customers in the day-to-day execution of our transformation.
With that I'll open up the call for questions.
And we'll take our first question from Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks for taking my question.
So you discussed the order growth in the quarter.
On a constant currency basis it still looks good.
How about the TCV type metrics the services contracts? How are those shaping up as compared to last quarter and last year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Gil thanks for the question.
Last year the number was anemic.
We said we were around about 150 million-ish at our last call.
We've set ourselves a target to be around about 200 million for the year so we've blown through the target by quite a mile and the Wells contract is just an incredible add to the portfolio and most importantly it's an incredible verification of the strategy what we're taking.
If you think about what that means and you translate that into your model on average these contracts are five-year contracts.
So do the math that's roughly $60 million per annum.
Then you've got some runoff that you have from the previous year where the service business was positively impacted by some of the Win 7 upgrade.
But net-net you're looking at least at a $40 million-ish upside to our service revenue going into 2016 that's baked as of January 1.
The other thing that was very encouraging we told you about a very large services – multi-vendor services contract at the last call with another top three bank in the U.S.
Between then and now we've taken over that complete base.
The whole park is up and running and we did not have one hiccup along the route.
Both the customer as well as our teams have done a tremendous job but we know we're onto something both from a sales but what's also equally as important for the customer from a delivery point of view that we're able to delight our customers and grow our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then in terms of the delta from last quarter and your revenue guidance China and Brazil have been challenged and then you have currency.
In terms of the change to guidance how much of it is the shift in currency versus China and Brazil getting worse? Is the change in guidance entirely currency or have China and Brazil gotten worse than what we were talking about three months ago? I think the short answer is its primarily just tied to the currency and so if you look at where we're at on the FSS basis we're right in line on a fixed rate at approximately 6% growth for the full year.
Inc.</span></strong> And so then last thing on China and Brazil just could you remind us of total revenue how much do China and Brazil compromise – comprise – how much of revenue comprise of China and Brazil as of this year? So for this year for China we're at approximately – it's approximately a $200 million business is what we've talked about before.
It's roughly about 40% 45% of the total Asia-Pacific business and you should think of that probably weighted around 60% product somewhere in the 60% range then 40% on the service side.
On Brazil you know it's roughly a $300 million business give or take.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
Next we'll go to Joe Radigan with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
First a couple questions on Electronic Security divestiture.
What will the tax impact be from the sale there? And will there be any hung overhead cost that will burden the rest of the P&amp;L? And then maybe Chris maybe you can give a framework on how to think about the impact on 2016? Yes.
So let's just talk about the high-level pieces for the ES business.
First of all with regards to timing the expectation is we're going to close I would expect in the January timeframe.
We have to clear the typical regulatory hurdles and a couple of other pre-close items.
When you think about it from a full year impact in 2015 first it's roughly a $345 million business.
That comes through – and again this just a rough number around 7.5% operating margin on that.
From a calendarization standpoint Q1 is usually the lowest quarter and then it's pretty steady after that.
Q2 through Q4 in this business it's not as volatile as or doesn't swing as widely as our FFS business does.
And so if you think about that in order of magnitude apply a pretty similar framework into 2016.
And then with regards to stranded costs and some of the items that we're going to have to deal with overall this business has been fairly standalone for a while.
We will have a handful of stranded costs that we will have to ultimately be deal with.
But I think on the positive side with the growth that we're seeing in our overall multi-vendor service activity we're really going to be able to leverage the overall organization as we're growing in our services business in North America.
Those are the high-level pieces Joe.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And then what happens to the Electronic Security business in Latin America? Is that still part of the long-term plan this year? And will you continue to report security as a separate segment going forward into next year once the North American ES business is gone? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me start with the business.
The Electronic Security business that we have in LatAm as well as in Asia predominantly in India will be part of our go-forward operations and it will be primarily part of our service organization and our service numbers in those countries.
And I'll let Chris talk to the reporting.
Yeah.
With regards to the segment we will clarify that in the first half of 2016.
The initial thought as of now is the security business is going to be broken out as is through our 10-K and then we will definite how we want to handle that with our 10-Q in the first quarter of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then the last question.
You mentioned you got a win at Bradesco.
I mean that used to be a pretty significant account for you guys.
So is this an indication of possibly more positive things to come or can you talk about the kind of the moving pieces around that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We think it is indicative of a few things.
First in a country that has enough political turmoil winning with private banks very very important.
Secondly as you know they've done a joint venture with our competitors so we were not in the account in a meaningful way for the last years.
And the third thing which is really the most exciting is in the last go-around they had a – they bid out they turned to Diebold for their high-end machines fully-loaded highest software content the most complicated solution the most value-add to the customer went to Diebold.
And we're super excited about that and yes we do see that as a springboard going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you guys.
Next we'll go to Saliq Khan with Imperial Capital.
Thank you.
Hi Andy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi.
As you're looking at the Electronics Security divestiture it certainly does increase the overall focus on financial self-service but it was growing at double the rate of the overall industry.
How did you and your team weigh the costs and benefits when making the decision? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a great question Saliq.
You see it's a great business.
We grew the business organically and we outgrew the market basically for as long as I've been with the company.
But for me it's a little bit like raising a kid taking it all the way through high school it gets great scores and now it's time for the kid to go to a great college.
There's only so much you can do in this space organically and we think the business given its drive and its assets deserves an even brighter future and we're looking for a way to continue to outgrow the industry and most importantly also to make sure that our customers will continue to benefit from innovation in the security space.
And when two parts of your business are in a market that's fundamentally transforming the electronic security market is transforming in its own rate as well as the self-service market and you've got to ask yourself how much capacity do you have? How much attention can you give to two fundamental transformations? And then our thought was we've got to double down on the core business of the company and we need to make sure that Tony Byerly and his team who've done an incredibly great job will have an even brighter future and our customers have even better innovations going forward.
Now if you look at the remaining portions of security which is physical security going forward it has been slow growing versus the Electronic Security.
How do you reverse the trend that we've seen over the last several quarters of physical security not growing at the rate that you wish it did? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you've been kind.
It's actually been shrinking for the last years and – but the big thing is the rate of decline has come down dramatically and it's providing a very stable floor to our service organization.
As I said on the call about 80% of that business is service and by the way it's all in branches for financial customers.
And here's the flip side: as customers are not moving out of old branches into new branches as branch transformation is definitely on everybody's mind but banks are moving at their own pace.
It's actually an in-built hedge in our numbers where branch transformation might be coming over a longer period of time until the banks rolled it out in mass quantities.
The physical security that we provide in the branches actually provides a continuous service revenue stream at a very accretive margin.
So net-net we stopped the decline; we're now looking at ways to include it into branch transformation solutions; and I think I highlighted on the call that if you're looking at next-gen solutions let's say around the drive-up space that's where these skills come in really handy and we want to benefit from that.
Andy just one last question for you then I'll hop back in the queue.
As you've announced the partnership with Citigroup when it came to the iris-scanning ATMs to be able to better reduce the overall cash withdrawal time to around 10 seconds or so within your research do you believe that the end-user will be willing to A submit the biometrics but on the other hand what security measures will be put in place to secure the biometrics once they have been submitted? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There's – that can be a long conversation.
So let me just rephrase this.
In the U.S.
we currently have a very skeptical consumer attitude towards biometrics.
But we've seen in other parts of the world where biometrics are a standard already today.
Think about palm readers fingerprints what have you not.
When crime and insecurity becomes more topical for consumers the question is – you change your weighting on: do I over-rotate on the sense of personal privacy or do I want to make sure my transaction is secure? And if you take a look at all the stuff that was happening if you think about the big breach at Target people are getting more and more conscious that safety is very important.
And now the question is what's the most convenient thing? And the other aspect is ever since the iPhone has added fingerprint to its authentification people have gotten way more relaxed about the idea of using biometrics.
I'm a huge fan of biometrics.
I believe it's a level of security that we're under-levering in this country and it would provide consumer protection combined with the added benefit that you can reduce all the other steps that machines normally go through to identify people.
And hence you reduce the time to do what you want to do at the machine which is to do your transactions.
Great.
Thank you Andy.
Next we'll go to Joan Tong with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
I have a question regarding like the multi-vendor service business.
Obviously you've done a great job another $150 million in contracts during the quarter.
And just want to see if you can give us like a high level how you think about like maybe 2016? What's really in the pipeline? The pipeline profile? How should we think about it going forward and then the growth rate and all that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a great question.
I can tell you the pipeline is expanding on all levels: small medium and large.
But large deals they're always binary so it's very hard to forecast them.
I mean you cannot forecast half of Wells.
It's either in or out.
So I got to dodge the bullet on the forecast number.
But the thing that you got to see is when we're moving to branch transformation when the cash is no longer at the teller but it's in the machine uptime of the machines is the single most important issue to any retail banker because without the machine half of the branch won't work.
Diebold service has been ranked number one in every study that I've seen in the last two years in every part of the world.
So being able to provide customers the level of service the level of quantity the level of response time that we are able to provide at a reasonable price point is a great value-add and we expect this business to grow.
We – I've said before our next milestone is we think that our services software-hardware mix is going to be 60/40 and we're going to push it north of that.
And if you look out long-term we're going to be two-thirds services software one-third hardware.
Okay.
What is the rationale behind keeping the rest of the Brazil other business and it obviously is a business that would continue to fluctuate from year-to-year quarter-to-quarter just want to see would that be more strategic business realignment to maybe get rid of the rest of the Brazil other business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look just because business is lumpy doesn't mean a business is bad.
As long as it comes in as predicted and it comes in with good margins.
The issue we had in Brazil is that previous management got hooked on the drug of doing other deals so bad that they forgot to run a good book of business in our core business and that's what we're changing.
So first order of business is we're going to run a profitable accretive business in our core FSS business and then we're taking lottery and voting when and if these businesses occur as upsides to our forecast and not as the lifeline that we need to justify the P&amp;L and the cost structure of a country.
The other site don't underestimate all these machines they're not that dissimilar to an ATM needs service.
We've got a huge service force in Brazil.
And back to your initial question whenever you can service more can – you – drive utilization up your service margins will increase.
And given the density especially of the lottery machines around the country this is a great way to continue to improve Brazil's service margin.
And third the lottery is run by Caixa which is a government-owned agency which also happens to be the largest or second-largest bank in the country which is also our largest customer on the banking side so we're actually re-using the same customer relationships as we go forward.
And I wanted to add just one additional point here as well.
I misspoke earlier on the total Brazil revenue.
So if you think about the current Brazil business it's roughly $200 million not $300 million that I mentioned with about $20 million of that in the Brazil other for the current year.
Okay.
All right.
That's fine.
And then finally the question regarding your hardware business.
Just want to get a sense of the competitive landscape and also pricing like any major pricing pressure or any heightened pricing pressure that we have seen in the past couple of quarters.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> First of all competitive landscape is increasing dramatically.
Just think about what branch transformation does.
It changes all the processes in a branch.
So self-service providers all of a sudden are being faced with competition from behind-the-counter technology providers are faced with competition from the cash-in-transit providers.
And around all of that you've got the big gorillas.
You got the banking softwares the IBMs and SAPs and Oracles on the one side and you've got the Visa MasterCard as the largest payment structures on the other side.
So competition definitely increasing new players – a new geographic mix of players.
The Asians the Koreans the Japanese the Chinese are moving into every market in the world and hardware will continue to commoditize.
We've said earlier and we continue to say that we believe hardware has about a 5% price pressure on its margins.
And we see very competitive pricing in the market.
And we also see some of our established competitors to get a little bit more nervous and putting a lot of pressure on pricing out there.
Thanks for the update.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Matt Summerville with Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey.
Good morning.
A couple things.
First I want to talk about Brazil a little bit more.
If I look at slide 17 your Latin America profitability both in the quarter and year-over-year I have to conclude you're losing a bit of money in Brazil.
Probably not a small amount although smaller given what the currency has done.
So I really want to understand what you're doing to make this business profitable going forward and whether or not there's incremental cost actions that you're evaluating or are under way now.
And if that's the case why not raise the cost-out bar that you've set? And then I have a follow-up.
Yeah.
Let me first just address the profitability in the quarter.
And so we've talked about the $9.3 million write-off that we had.
Excluding that impact of that $9.3 million write-off Brazil would have been profitable in the quarter.
On a year-over-year basis we're also then bumping up against last year.
We had a fairly large lottery project that we delivered on which was $50 million and so you have the combination of the write-off plus bumping up against a fairly tough compare from last year that is causing the variance really.
When you look at it with regards to actions we talked a little bit about this in the last quarter and we've had some further actions along those lines.
I'm not going to give the exact number but I will say we have reduced the overall head count in Brazil by a meaningful number and are continuing to take appropriate dealering (50:07) actions in Brazil as well to right-size the organization such that the Financial Self-Service business stands on its own two feet and drives a nice profit stream for us regardless of getting potential one-off upsides from the Brazil other business.
And then with respect to – so you're in the midst of a divestiture.
You obviously are in talks about a potential acquisition.
Next year in 2016 I believe is the last year of the turnaround grant I believe you've referred to it as and you've talked about free cash flow being the metric for 2016.
So how does all this M&amp;A feed into how the Board is looking at that in terms of the yardstick if you will by which to judge senior management? And I guess what conversion rate should we be looking for given cash flow's a little disappointing this year relative to what you guys were thinking previously? Thank you.
Yeah.
I would have a couple of comments on this Matt I think.
Number one if you look at our current cash flow and some of the items that have come through and impacting it number one we've talked about multi-vendor service and we've taken very specific actions there.
In a longer-term view as Andy talked about approximately net $40 million increase to the service business in North America next year but we've also had to make an investment and we've had an increase in our service inventory of approximately $15 million to $20 million as well to be able to service all of these units that we've brought on.
Again that's looking long-term.
Number two with pressure on the cash flow this year we've increased our restructuring by about $5 million and again that's taking this longer-term view of getting costs out and taking the appropriate actions now and not sitting back and just admiring these problems.
And then additionally we've had deal costs against some of these strategic things that we're doing.
Unfortunately the advisors and bankers don't give you free services here and so we have to appropriately incorporate this into our overall guidance as well.
So when you look at some of these items in the near term it's all about the longer-term strategy in growth and trajectory of the company.
And then as we start to move forward and we get some of these items behind us obviously it's going to allow us to generate a much healthier overall conversion rate from a free cash flow standpoint.
We've talked about being north of 100% on the NOPAT from a cash flow standpoint and again we're going to continue to drive to that mark and ultimately exceed that mark but again we have to take the right actions in the near term to drive the right long-term performance of the company.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And that's exactly the way that the board thinks about how to evaluate management which is are we doing the right thing for our company for our customers for our shareholders for our employees going forward and do we give the company not just a 12-month but do we give the company a 5- to 10-year runway to grow which is also the philosophy when we said we're going to do mix adjustments in walk so we can kick into more growth in the run phase of our turnaround.
So a lot of heavy lifting a lot of hard work all with the objective of making sure that Diebold has a great future and a great springboard for future growth and be able to take advantage of the shift in the market and the opportunities that are created with that.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to Brendan Hardin with Northcoast Research.
Hey Andy.
Hey Chris.
This is Kartik.
Hey Andy wanted to ask you about the servicing business and maybe if you could just talk about why you're winning these businesses.
Has something changed on the marketplace? Is it how you're going to market? What's the catalyst that's allowing you to win? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Kartik...
Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...the more advanced the machines get the more processes you put on self-service.
The more you drive branch transformation it's becoming a services play.
It's all about uptime it's all about availability it's all about ease of use it's all about remote service capability and ultimately it's all about a service model.
And as you know from your own research we score in every one of those buckets ahead of any competitor out there.
And I mean I cannot give you the customer but I can assure you that of the four deals we won this year one of them already gave us testament that other people's machine run better under Diebold management than they've ever run before under the management of the original manufacturer.
And that's why we're winning.
It's dedication to customers and having the best service.
We've said service is our core business going forward and we're being rewarded by our customers.
And then Andy you talked about restructuring China so that you can now go under the new rules that they have there.
Will that change the economics? And if so do you expect much of an impact? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes yes and a yes.
But it's too early to squawk.
Just think about it this way Kartik.
The only way that you're going to do business in China is if you're being categorized as Chinese in the bucket.
And I mean let's be very clear everything we're talking about is a hardware play because I think I said it on the call our service business in China is actually growing very nicely.
So how do you come up with a hardware structure where we're more Chinese than we are today where we're not having a multi-national company discount but where we have a local partnership premium? But you got to do this in a way that's compliant with SEPA.
You got to do it in a way that you have a serious business partner that's predictable that understands how U.S.
companies tick and click and there are many many pitfalls if you don't do your homework.
And that's exactly what we're doing right now.
We're very encouraged with the progress and the options that we have on the radar screen and we hope that we will be in a position on our next earnings call we will be able to outline the China strategy going forward.
But once again we're not sitting back and admiring the problem.
We want to make sure we take our own destiny in our own hands.
And last question for you Chris.
Fourth quarter you're expecting a pretty big free cash flow number to kind of get to your guidance.
How much visibility do you have to that number? And I guess maybe this might be difficult but what percentage do you feel like you have visibility to and what percentage of the business has to come through in the fourth quarter so you can achieve your target? First with regards to the number in the fourth quarter if you look back the last four years the fourth quarter expectation is basically in line with what we've done in those last several year-ends.
And so it's pretty much typical from a seasonality that we deal with.
With regards to visibility obviously there are always some timing things that are outside of your control.
I feel good about the focus of the organization.
The time that we spend on it is significant.
We goal our organization on the metrics around working capital and free cash flow and we obviously control certain aspects of that and we'll look to deliver on our commitments.
Thank you very much.
I really appreciate it.
Next we'll go to Meghna Ladha with Susquehanna.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just a quick one Andy.
What do you think is the long-term growth outlook of the ATM industry globally and what gives you confidence it can grow at that rate? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a great question Meghna.
The way you got to think about it is that BRIC at least for the next three years has pretty much been reduced to I which means if you take a look at RBR reports and all of that once you exclude BRIC growth which the market research gurus had it round about 9% in units you'll end actually up with a low-single digit unit growth scenario and which again revalidates our approach to more services because low-single digit units would actually translate into flat dollars if you subtract the 5% headwind on the pricing.
So in order to remain in the single-digit growth rate outlook going forward all of that has to come from services and from software.
Thanks Andy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Now here's some good news on the services side.
Most market research companies do not have the services opportunity in their numbers.
I want to say 80% of the spend that all the banks around the globe have every year to run maintain their ATMs is currently in-house spend within the cost centers of the banks.
It's not in any of the TAM numbers.
Once you add that business and you turn that from an insourced model into an outsourced model into a partnership model in a managed services model all of a sudden you're starting to add meaningful chunks of market opportunity to the TAM.
In my mind we're about to triple the TAM in our industry between now and then end of the decade.
Got it.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Good morning Andy.
Good morning Chris.
Hey Justin.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Just a couple clarification questions.
The write-off or the bad debt in Brazil what exactly is it affecting on the balance sheet? So you would have a combination of an impact to inventory and that's roughly I think two-thirds of the amount and then you have the other impact which would be impacting on finance receivables varied between – there would have been a short- and long-term component but in the finance receivables.
Okay.
Great.
On the subject of receivables how much of the $20 million reduction in free cash flow guidance is related to accounts receivable? I mean inventory seems sort of in check but receivables seems a bit high again at the end of this quarter.
It's not.
It's really the other items that I've talked about.
Overall expectations on receivables are in line with where we've ended historically in previous year-ends.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And then on receivables let me reiterate.
Chris was mentioning it in his prepared remarks.
We've cleared a very very big milestone for our company with our Oracle upgrade.
It was mandatory for us to make sure that next year's service invoices those are 12-month invoices are being done on the new system because had we not passed that milestone we would have had the accounts receivables for yet another year in the old technology.
So we – very crucial milestone on our IT transformation side.
Our IT team has done an incredible job around that.
It did slip it out a little in the quarter which is why we have the $20 million impact that Chris mentioned.
People just couldn't pay the invoice soon enough fast enough within the quarter but that's why we did it in Q3 and not in Q4.
So we got it on the new system.
It's all out there in a way that customers can actually understand our services invoices and have all the opportunity in the world to start paying as of this quarter.
Okay.
Great.
So the receivables impact on the free cash flow guidance is negligible.
I guess that's what I'm hearing.
Question on the security divestiture.
What is the after-tax estimated proceeds? I'm not going to give an exact number on that at this time.
Obviously you've got to go through all of your final purchase accounting and your balance sheet adjustments all those ins and outs which can ultimately impact the proceeds.
Again cash could already be in-house so to speak when you think about it from that perspective.
I would say that we have generated some foreign tax credits that we'll have the ability to utilize.
And so the overall tax impact on this is not going to come out just at the blanket U.S.
statutory rate we'll have a little bit of an offset there.
So I would say the blended tax rate impact on this would probably be best to use to corporate average of around 20% and then we'll update further on that after we finalize all of that purchase accounting work in the January timeframe.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
But any sort of suggestions as to what that 20% rate would mean in terms of dollars? I'll update you on that after the end of the fourth quarter when we finalize the transaction.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then on the question of security margins you mentioned that electronic security or the North America business I think was about 7.5% margin.
And then you also mentioned the physical security is a strong margin-producing business for you.
I mean should we sort of conclude that overall security margins are sort of above the corporate average from your comment? Yeah.
I don't think it's fair just to apply it in that fashion.
Again I'm giving the stand-alone average on that.
I'm not allocating back any of the global or corporate costs where you would have some of that allocation that's not sitting in one of the operating units.
So I think net-net when you look at the blended overall geographic businesses most of our regions are running in double-digit margins excluding for the allocation of the corporate and global overhead.
So net-net it's probably under when you – if you were to fully burden it with all of the corporate and global overhead holistically.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
So the 7.5% is more of a pre-corporate number.
Correct.
That's how you should think about it whenever you think of discontinued ops moving forward the pieces that we're going to be taking out and then obviously we will have some other cost actions that will take – tied to some of the stranded costs the company would have but that's how you should think about it from a modeling standpoint.
Okay.
Fantastic.
And finally I just want to commend you guys on what looks like a strong quarter of share gains at least excluding whatever headwinds you're facing in Asia-Pacific.
Might you sort of comment on sort of the pace of share gains that you saw in EMEA and/or other regions in the quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's all about dedication and end-to-end solutions and services-led approaches to the customers.
Our next gen product line is hitting it out of the park.
Our security features – I mean you saw that.
Just take Mexico right 2 200 machines with anti-skimming on it.
And as I said early on the biometric question that was raised is when that becomes more of a reality in the market security becomes a very attractive position.
And then the fact that we are the drivers of our own destiny we've got no questions about the longevity of our company.
We're dedicated to our customers.
We're driving innovation very very well-received and you can see it.
We've made investments in Europe last year.
We've made investments into Africa.
We're gaining in Africa.
We've made investments into the Middle East.
We're gaining share in the Middle East which is why we're also opening the office in Dubai Even the win in Romania is an investment that we made in the sales force last year and they're all competitive wins.
And they all come from our established competitors out there in the market and we're shaping new opportunities together with our customers.
So we're very excited.
Our pipeline is full of creative ideas.
Take a look at what we're doing with Citi.
That's true leading-edge technology in collaboration with a customer that will drive a lot of positive momentum going forward.
So we know we're taking share and we're getting all the feedback from the customers that we're doing the right things we're not confused and that they like to entrust their business with us.
Great.
Thanks.
Keep up the good work.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Good.
Operator I believe that's the last question for today.
I want to thank everyone for joining us.
If you have any calls please dial us up at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to Diebold Incorporated's Fourth Quarter 2015 Full Year Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Steve Virostek.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jennifer.
And I'd like to welcome all of our participants to Diebold's fourth quarter and year-end earnings call for 2015.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO; and Chris Chapman Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's webcast we'll be referring to slides which have been posted to the IR page of diebold.com.
And a replay of our webcast will also be available later today on the website.
Our discussion today will focus on results from continuing operations unless otherwise noted.
Please keep in mind that these results from our North American electronic security business are included in income from discontinued operations.
We have finalized the divestiture of this business on February 1 of 2016.
On slide two Diebold's presentation includes non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide a helpful indicator of the company's baseline performance.
We've provided a reconciliation of these metrics to their respective and most directly comparable GAAP metrics in our supplemental materials.
Slide number three contains a reminder that certain comments made during the webcast may be characterized as forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements and additional information on these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Please keep in mind that forward-looking information discussed is only current as of today and subsequent events may render certain information out of date.
Slide four encourages investors and shareholders to read our Form S-4 Registration Statement and offer document which pertains to Diebold's offer to acquire all outstanding shares of Wincor Nixdorf.
These documents are available on the websites listed on this slide.
And now I'll hand the call to Andy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning and welcome.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will try to do my best to make it through the call without coughing too much; and if I do I apologize up-front as I'm battling a pretty nasty cold.
As I think about 2015 a few key areas stand out.
First as part of our transformation strategy we set out to increase our mix of higher-value services and software business.
For the year we increased services revenue 4% in constant currency with solid contributions from managed and multi-vendor services.
We continue to drive efficiencies across this business as demonstrated by our non-GAAP service gross margin expansion of 150 basis points.
This also drove total gross margin expansion of 90 basis points on a non-GAAP basis.
Additionally we signed service deals with more than $350 million of total contract value during the year which will contribute to our services revenue growth over the next several years.
We expanded our service base by winning new multi-vendor contracts with two of the largest banks in the United States and in Mexico.
We now have more than 12 000 competitive units under service contract giving us a solid platform to continue growing this business.
These results give me confidence that our services-led software-enabled strategy is bearing fruit and we expect services and software to exceed 60% of our total revenue in 2016.
Next our leadership team made significant strides to reshape our portfolio of businesses and build a platform for future growth.
Strategically this was an unprecedented year for Diebold.
We launched our next generation platform which is the most modern solutions set in our industry.
Following the integration of Phoenix our software roadmap has progressed extremely well and we are establishing our leadership in multi-vendor software as demonstrated by wins at Westpac in Australia Banorte in Mexico and our first wins in a North America regional bank space.
We divested our North America electronic security business to a strategic partner enabling a very smooth transition for our customers and allowing us to gain more focus on the great opportunities in the self-service space.
We also formed a new joint venture for self-service solutions in China with Insper an $8 billion leading provider of IT solutions and cloud-based services in the country.
And of course we are working to complete the pending business combination transaction with Wincor Nixdorf.
I will talk more about Insper and provide an update on Wincor later in my comments.
2015 was a challenging year in many respects.
In China the impact of government's buy-local initiative intensified dramatically as the year progressed bringing new product activity for multi-national players essentially to a halt.
We clearly needed a new approach and we are proud to be the first company in our industry to not – announce a potential solution to this challenge.
Our recently announced joint venture with Insper in which we hold a minority position will focus on product innovation consisting of ATM technology and Insper's noncash solutions and manufacturing.
This puts Diebold in a much better position to compete for product business in the second half of 2016 and continues the momentum we're building in growing services in China where revenue increased in the mid-single digits in 2015.
In Brazil we took action early in the year in anticipation of the worsening political and business climate and a significant decline in the cyclical Brazil other business.
We rolled up our Brazil operations into the Latin America region brought on new country leadership and reduced our cost structure.
In the second half of the year we narrowed the scope of our Brazil other business by eliminating government IT equipment contracts from the mix.
Despite this difficult environment we maintained our leadership position in the market won our way back into Bradesco which is Brazil's second-largest private bank and grew FSS revenue in the mid-single digits in constant currency.
Despite local headwinds our FSS business outperformed the competition with revenue growth of 4% in constant currency.
We also closed the year with our backlog up double digit in constant currency during primarily a large branch transformation project.
And we were able to deliver non-GAAP EPS growth of approximately 9% due to a more favorable tax rate cost actions and incremental restructuring activities.
From a free cash flow perspective the company's performance fell well short of our expectations.
However we have plans in place to recover in 2016.
Chris will cover free cash flow in more detail during his commentary.
Looking at our progress in delivering innovation we continue to develop and evolve our portfolio of solutions to meet the industry's growing need for branch transformation.
In 2015 we completed the roll-out of our next gen self-service platforms.
The new line currently has been certified in about half of the countries in which we do business.
Looking to 2016 we expect the next gen line will drive more than one-third of our product revenue.
The company also introduced a number of new innovative concepts during the year piloting new transaction technology with Citi and displaying a cashless mobile self-service concept for the retail market at the NRF Show in January.
This is just one way we are leveraging our self-service capabilities to expand our market potential.
Another recent innovation our ActivEdge card skimming solution is a great example of something that started as a simple idea that's now growing in customer and consumer interest in North America Europe and Latin America.
Now let's turn to our business mix overview on slide eight.
My comments will focus on the core service business which now excludes the North America electronic security business.
We've feel the strategic path we're taking with the company is the right one.
Given all the success we've had in growing services and software as a percentage of revenue we are increasing our midterm target to be 65% of total revenue with service gross margin being around 35%.
Turning to the geography overview on slide nine my comments will focus on financial self-service.
Total FSS orders in constant currency were flat for the year and down 8% in the quarter.
Excluding China and Brazil orders in constant currency increased 4% for the year.
In North America orders were relatively flat for the year featuring strength in national account.
In the fourth quarter FSS orders were down 6% in constant currency as growth in services was more than offset by a decline in product orders primarily attributable to Windows 7 upgrade activity in the prior-year period.
We worked our way back into two of the largest banks in the U.S.
During the quarter we continued to see more major account activity evidenced by a recent win with a top-three U.S.
bank for more than 1 500 branch transformation terminals.
Our first Phoenix wins in the regional bank space represent another important milestone demonstrating the market acceptance of our new software portfolio.
As I look to 2016 I'm encouraged by the opportunities in our North America business.
Our new leadership team in the region is translating our services-led software-enabled strategy into tangible wins.
North America is now leading the way as our mix of business in this region grew to approximately 70% services and software in 2015.
Additionally we're going into the year with a strong product order backlog which grew 6%.
Looking at EMEA orders were up double digits in constant currency for the year with strength across the region.
We have sustained growth in Europe with strong momentum in key countries and we are encouraged to see growth in regions where we made recent investments such as the Middle East and Africa.
For the fourth quarter orders were up 7% in constant currency led by strong double-digit growth in services and low single-digit growth in product.
During the quarter we continued to expand our market presence in the U.K.
by signing a product and services agreement with Barclays.
We also significantly expanded our relationship with UniCredit where over the next three years we will deploy 400 recycling units and 700 cash dispensers across Southern Europe.
In South Africa Diebold was awarded a contract for cash dispensers recycling units and related maintenance services by Capitec Bank one of the fastest-growing banks in that country.
We also signed a contract with the National Bank of Pakistan to upgrade their fleet with 500 next gen ATMs with full maintenance services.
For EMEA in 2016 we anticipate continued growth in Western Europe driven by the maturity of the installed fleet in the market and our differentiated services.
We see solid demand in the Middle East and Africa driven by banking expansion and the need for greater automation and innovation.
We're also experiencing an emerging trend of large financial institutions considering outsourcing their ATM networks.
Moving on to Asia Pacific orders for the year were heavily impacted by China.
While product orders declined more than 35% we are encouraged to see continued growth in services and software for the region which were up double digits for the year in constant currency.
In the fourth quarter Diebold partnered with the largest bank in Singapore to help drive financial inclusion by providing the first ATMs capable of delivering services to visually impaired consumers in that country.
As I mentioned earlier we expect our joint venture with Inspur to enhance our competitive position in the Chinese product market starting in the second half of 2016.
In Latin America we delivered another solid year with FSS orders up 10% in constant currency boosted by the strength in Mexico.
Doing business once again with Bradesco is a highlight in the year in Brazil where we are deploying deposit automation solutions.
We also signed a large services contract with another major bank in Brazil to provide maintenance services for their fleet.
In the fourth quarter Diebold received an order from Davivienda for 300 next gen ATMs and an accompanying integrated services contract for branches in El Salvador Honduras and Costa Rica.
Looking at 2016 we expect Latin America to continue leading the way in deploying our Next Gen branch automation and recycling solutions.
We also anticipate our managed services business will grow based on new contract wins in 2015.
Our revenue outlook for 2016 is supported by an order for voting machines in Brazil.
Before I walk you through our 2016 guidance let me provide a brief update on the Wincor Nixdorf business combination.
Last week we launched a takeover offer to Wincor shareholders.
The offer document is on file with BaFin the German regulator and is available on our website along with links to the prospectus in our Form S-4 Registration Statement which the SEC has declared effective.
In addition we continue to make progress with filing for anti-trust regulatory approvals in accordance with the timeframe noted in our public filing.
While there's more work to do I feel good about the progress we have made and we are targeting and finalizing this transaction in the summer of this year.
We're very excited about the combination with Wincor Nixdorf as we continue see tremendous upside in this deal.
The customer feedback we're receiving is very positive.
The near-term growth opportunities in our industry are happening in the developed markets.
This combination gives us fighting weight in those markets on both sides of the Atlantic so the timing couldn't be better.
It's a great opportunity for our customers for both companies and their respective shareholders.
Now looking at our 2016 guidance.
This will be a year in which we have major M&amp;A pieces pending or in process which makes it difficult to provide guidance.
What we want to do today is give you a good sense of our ongoing business activities excluding the recently divested North America electronic security business and including our China joint venture which we expect to be in place in the second quarter.
Any effects from the pending business combination with Wincor Nixdorf is not included in our guidance.
We feel very good about our growth prospects in North America and in EMEA in 2016 as demand continues to be fueled by branch transformation which drives a higher level of services and software content.
Given the continued challenges in some of the emerging markets combined with the continued strength of the U.S.
dollar we expect total revenue to be relatively flat as reported but growing 2% to 4% in constant currency.
Non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations is anticipated to be between $1.55 to $1.70.
Chris will elaborate more on the outlook in his commentary.
In summary we advanced our services-led software-enabled strategy with measurable results in 2015.
We introduced new innovative solutions to the marketplace and made key strategic decisions that will dramatically change our profile moving forward.
While we still have a lot of heavy lifting in front of us as we transform the company our outlook benefits from a solid book of business and continued growth in services and software globally.
We're driving our industry transformation through collaborate innovation and we are creating a runway for growth moving forward.
With that I'll turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
I will start off by walking through our fourth quarter and full-year financial performance and then provide an update on our 2016 outlook.
Before I begin just a reminder that all results we will be covering are from continuing operations unless otherwise noted.
The impact of the divested North America electronic security business is included in the income from discontinued operations net of tax line in the income statements for all periods presented.
Additionally these assets and liabilities of the business are classified as held-for-sale in the company's condensed consolidated balance sheet for all periods presented.
Starting on slide 12.
In the fourth quarter total revenue as reported was down 21% compared to the prior-year period and down 13% in constant currency.
Currency headwinds negatively impacted total revenue by approximately 8% with the Brazil real and the euro having the most significant impact.
Excluding the effects of currency the main drivers of this change were lower volume in Brazil other slower product sales in China and a difficult compare in North America resulting from deposit automation roll-outs with large national accounts in the previous year.
The decline in product revenue was partially offset by growth in our services business.
Looking at our regional segments EMEA revenue increased nearly 8% in constant currency led by a double-digit improvement in service revenue and product growth in the low-single digits.
Asia Pacific and Latin America excluding the Brazil other business were both down approximately 15% while North America decreased approximately 10%.
For the full-year 2015 excluding Brazil other total revenue increased 3% in constant currency primarily driven by a 4% service revenue increase.
Turning to the regions on a constant currency basis EMEA revenue increased nearly 11% with growth in both product and services.
Latin America excluding the Brazil other business had a strong year with revenue growth of 12% and North America grew approximately 1%.
Revenue from Asia Pacific declined by 9% which was driven by lower product volume in China.
As we move to slide 13 financial self-service revenue in the fourth quarter decreased approximately 15% as reported and 8% on a constant currency basis.
Service revenue increased 4% while product revenue decreased by 19%.
For the full year financial self-service revenue increased 4% on a constant currency basis with mid single-digit growth from both services and product.
Looking at the regions in constant currency Latin America increased approximately 16% as we enhanced our leadership position in the region.
Revenue from EMEA increased nearly 11% with strong growth in both product and services.
North America increased 2% comprised of service growth of nearly 4% partially offset by a product revenue decline of 1%.
Asia Pacific declined approximately 8% with a nearly 25% decline in product revenue partially offset by an 11% increase in service revenue.
On slide 14 you can see that total security revenue for the fourth quarter decreased approximately 18% in constant currency.
The decline was driven by a 7% decrease in physical security and a difficult compare from a significant electronic security project in Latin America in the prior-year period.
Looking at the full-year results security revenue decreased approximately 4% in constant currency.
Here again the electronic security project in Latin America played a key role in the year-over-year decrease.
Encouragingly physical security has stabilized from prior-year declines with approximately 80% of revenue now comprising of services.
Looking at slide 15 as anticipated Brazil other declined $48 million in the fourth quarter.
For the full year Brazil other decreased approximately $207 million over the prior year or $145 million in constant currency.
On slide 16 total gross margin in the quarter increased 190 basis points to 28.7%.
Service margin increased 240 basis points to 34.9% as we continue to improve productivity and utilization while shifting our mix towards higher-value services.
Product gross margin decreased 160 basis points to 19.9% primarily due to lower activity in Brazil and certain contractual provisions in Venezuela which benefited our 2014 results.
For the full year total gross margin increased 90 basis points to 27.3% which benefited from service gross margin improvement of 150 basis points year-over-year.
Product gross margin decreased a similar amount primarily due to previously mentioned items in Brazil and Venezuela as well as the adverse impact of a $4.7 million inventory write-down in Brazil.
Moving on to slide 17.
Total operating expense in the quarter was 19.6% of revenue compared to 20.2% in the prior-year period with overall spend down approximately $37 million.
The decrease in spend is a combination of the change in currency as well as the results of our cost reduction plans inclusive of lower reinvestments.
Turning to slide 18.
We have realized approximately $75 million in net comp savings since the beginning of our Diebold 2.0 program in 2013.
For the full year we delivered gross savings of $40 million with the majority coming through the service business.
After reinvestments we realized net program savings of $20 million for the year.
As we transition to 2016 we're expecting to deliver an additional $15 million in net program savings from our prior investments with the majority of reinvestments now behind us.
Turning to slide 19.
Non-GAAP operating profit in the fourth quarter increased approximately $4 million from the prior year and our operating margin was 9.1% due to continued improvements in our service business reductions in operating expense partially offset by FX headwinds.
For the year non-GAAP operating margin decreased 30 basis points to 5.8% as our cost mitigation actions helped offset the headwinds faced from foreign currency and challenging environments in Brazil and China.
Looking at operating profit in the fourth quarter as reported by segment on slide 20.
North America decreased $7.5 million versus the prior year due to lower product volume from the cyclical nature of our national account business.
Asia Pacific increased $0.9 million as cost actions across the region more than offset lower product volume in China.
EMEA increased $3.9 million due to the improved service margins and lower operating expenses.
In Latin America operating profit decreased $13.6 million driven by Brazil other the benefit in 2014 of certain contractual provisions in Venezuela and FX headwinds.
The global and corporate line improved $20.6 million reflecting our cost actions in addition to favorable year-over-year reinvestment comps.
Turning to the EPS reconciliation on slide 21 non-GAAP EPS was $0.78 for the quarter including discontinued operations.
Non-GAAP EPS excludes restructuring charges of $0.04 and $0.20 of non-routine items.
During the quarter the non-GAAP effective tax rate including discontinued operations came in at 5.8%.
The decrease is attributable to the passage of the extenders legislation allowing for the recognition of a greater amount of foreign tax credits.
For the year non-GAAP EPS was $1.88 which included $0.24 from discontinued operations.
As Andy outlined we were able to absorb a number one-off items throughout the year and still deliver solid earnings.
This compares with $1.73 per share non-GAAP EPS in 2014.
The non-GAAP effective tax rate including discontinued operations came in at 16.9% compared with the approximate 21% guidance we previously provided with the lower tax rate attributable to the benefit of the passage of the extenders legislation.
Moving on to Slide 22 our results in the quarter reflect a $145 million free cash flow including discontinued operations.
This is well below our expectations and previous-year performance and we plan to make to make up for the shortfall in 2016.
There're several factors that led to this result.
First during the quarter we completed transitioning several legacy pieces of our North America service systems to our new ERP platform.
However we experienced some transition challenges that impacted the timely issuance of service invoices and the corresponding cash collections.
Secondly we successfully transitioned thousands of competitive units to our North America services portfolio.
However this increased service inventory faster than we anticipated to facilitate this changeover.
And finally we saw a change in customer behavior from historical norms that resulted in lower pre-pay activity in China and North America.
These items in combination with the back-end-loaded nature of our quarter resulted in free cash flow shortfall.
We have largely mitigated our systems and process issues and are focused on improving our working capital efficiency in 2016.
Turning to Slide 23.
Including the discontinued operations DSO reflected an increase of 12 days to 54 days in the quarter versus the same period last year primarily due to the billing issues in North America.
Inventory turns decreased to 5.1 turns compared with 5.6 in the fourth quarter 2014 reflecting the impact of an increase in service parts related to the North American service business.
Net debt on Slide 24 for the period was $292 million an increase of $249 million from year-end 2014.
The increase in net debt is largely attributable to our free cash flow performance as well as the acquisition of Phoenix dividend payments and the impact of foreign currency.
For the year we were able to continue to efficiently access foreign cash of approximately $120 million which was up from approximately $100 million in 2014.
Moving to slide 25 regarding our outlook for continuing operations.
The company expects full-year 2016 revenue as reported to be relatively flat or up 2% to 4% in constant currency.
We are now expecting a currency headwind around 3% for the full year.
On a non-GAAP basis earnings per share is expected to be approximately $1.55 to $1.70 with effective tax rate of approximately 28% for the full year.
Looking at the businesses on a constant currency basis FSS revenue is expected to be up 2% to 4%; security revenue is expected to be approximately flat for the year; and Brazil other revenue should be around $45 million for the year.
The full-year outlook is supported by strong year-end product backlog of $673 million with is up 4% as reported and up 11% in constant currency with double-digit increases in North America national accounts EMEA and Latin America.
Given the number of moving parts with our recent strategic actions we thought it would be helpful to bridge our 2015 to 2016 non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations.
If you normalize the tax rate at approximately 28% and account for lower net investment income and interest expense tied to our cash mobilization strategies our underlying earnings growth will be $0.25 to $0.40 per share.
Thinking about this from a seasonality standpoint lower contribution from Asia Pacific as well as a higher mix of large projects in the backlog will have an impact on our quarterly earnings with these projects ramping as we progress through the year.
The net result of these two items is a one-third/two-third earnings split in the first and second half of the year.
Finally our free cash flow outlook is expected to exceed $150 million for the year primarily due to the change in our expected GAAP operating results and recovering the ground we lost in working capital in 2015.
This outlook is inclusive of our identified restructuring and non-routine expenses however does not include the cash tax impacts tied to the gain on the sale of our North America ES business nor the full effect related to the proposed Wincor business combination.
With that I'll open up the call for questions.
And we'll go first to Gil Luria with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
First of all I wanted to ask about the current run rate exposure to the BRC countries.
With the China product ramping down really to zero this year if you look at just the China services run rate what you still have in Brazil and if there's anything Russia what percent of revenue does that comprise now? And how does that compare to what those three countries added up to in say 2014? Gil let me level set here a little bit.
If you look at 2015 first excluding Brazil and excluding China the company would've grown on the top line about 5.5% in a constant currency basis.
As we move into 2016 and look at those overall exposures we have as we've indicated put into our guidance the impact of the Inspur transaction being complete roughly in the second quarter of the year.
And so on a year-on-year basis order of magnitude on the product side that's probably a $50 million to $60 million headwind on the product revenue that we have included into the overall guidance that we've provided.
So that's the impact from the down when we look at China year on year; and again we expect the service piece to continue to be growing.
And obviously with the nature of this transaction we're going to bring in the Inspur kiosk service revenue into our existing business as well so that'll actually give us a little bit of an increase.
But that's a much smaller base than what we currently have today.
Looking at Brazil year on year we have planned for fairly moderate performance in that operation minus the Brazil other where we have the $45 million in backlog which is tied to the floating business which we are again – where we received the order in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> But safe to say that combined they comprise less than 15% of your revenue in 2016? Correct.
Inc.</span></strong> And then Chris if you wouldn't mind the debt financing for the Wincor deal.
Could you walk us through where a couple of those different pieces if the terms are set the prices are set what your outlook is for being able to secure that debt and the – in the terms that were decided upon or terms that are close to those? Yeah.
Let me give you just a couple of the high-level pieces.
But first I would start off whenever we entered into the transaction based on the requirements up-front we had a fund certain requirement from a German perspective.
And so again we locked in the entire structure with our banks up-front which essentially says that we have a max pricing structure an interest rate structure that's tied to that in the event that you can't go out and utilize the high-yield market and you've got to have the bridge from the banks on that.
But if you look at the major pieces here we locked in in the December timeframe when we announced that that we have the first piece of the debt structure in place with our $520 million revolver and the two term loans – term A loans of $480 million.
So that first $1 billion is in place.
If you look at the implied interest on that it's basically LIBOR plus 200 currently.
Max exposure could go LIBOR plus 225 so that's running somewhere 2.3% 2.5% depending on a couple of factors.
If you look at the term B in terms of max pricing on that again if you went to the extreme on that you'd be looking at LIBOR plus 6.75% so maybe around 7.5% on that at a max.
And then the last piece the high yield that market is sitting somewhere in the 8% range today.
And again it's been a frothy market in that area.
But if you look at that in terms of the structure we have in place the max financing we would see on that would be 11%.
And so just if you take all of that and you blend it all together we're looking at a blended interest rate assuming market rates as of today and access to the markets of somewhere in the low-5% range.
If you looked at this and looked at our debt agreements on the max structure you'd be in the low-7% range from an interest standpoint.
And so again that gives you a little bit of a mix of the pieces.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Very helpful.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Good morning Andy.
Good morning Chris.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Good morning.
I guess I wanted to start with the working capital challenges that affected the second half of the year.
Would you be able to sort of maybe rank order or quantify the three different qualitative issues that you highlighted that were affecting free cash flow and working capital? Yeah.
If you just walk down in terms of order of prominence the total AR performance you look at that and up approximately 12 days over prior-year performance.
You can do the quick math and every day is worth about $7 million $7.5 million to us.
If you look at that and the impact we had in North America that was roughly $60 million $65 million impact on our overall AR balance that performing at past levels and based on the mix of business in our payment terms that we should've performed at a higher level there.
If you didn't look at the pre-pay activity the pre-pay activity across prominently – predominantly China and North America that was roughly a $30 million impact year on year.
And again there was a change in behaviors that we've seen there.
The China obviously that behavior – we don't look at that coming back and that model is going to be changed forward.
So again that we'll just say resets as we move forward and won't be a 2016 concern because the model is changed.
And then the last item is really around $20 million $25 million that I would call on the service inventory.
And again we've highlighted – it's a good news/bad news.
Again we transitioned a significant amount of multi-vendor service units.
But again we have pretty stringent SLAs.
And we have fix-it-right-the-first-time type of expectations so we probably over-rotated a little bit in terms of the amount that we brought in.
But I would say on the customer satisfaction side we definitely scored very very high marks there.
But again it was at the expense of our working capital and higher service parts levels.
So that's the major pieces there.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's very helpful.
I mean going back to the financing for Wincor I guess it seemed at the time that Diebold was playing it somewhat conservative in terms of raising perhaps a bit more capital than an outsider looking in might think the company needed.
I mean were some of these working capital issues anticipated when you decided how much money to raise for the Wincor transaction? Or were these issues that really took you guys by surprise in the last quarter of the year? When we put our financing structure in place again there was a level of conservatism but there was also a level of making sure we have the capacity to operate and come out with zero on our revolver whenever we have the combination complete.
These issues that came up we're not backward-looking here.
We clearly have line of sight to the corrective actions to take and we're looking at getting the working capital back in order here pretty quickly as we progress throughout 2016.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then one final question.
With respect to 2016 guidance you talked about the earnings split first half and second half.
Could you maybe sort of talk about how the constant currency revenue develops throughout the year? Obviously fourth quarter revenue in orders looked fairly negative on constant currency basis but were lapping a harder comp.
So just maybe if you could transition that into the cadence for 2016 organic revenue growth.
Yeah.
I don't have all of my constant currency by quarter right in front of me but the main piece that I would outline is to say as you come into the first quarter one of the biggest year-over-year comp issues that we're going to have is the – it's the overlap effect in Asia due to the China situation.
So there I would expect the revenue to be down again just rough order of magnitude probably about $25 million in Asia.
And with the fall-through of the overall profit that we have coming out of China that profit probably about half of what it was last year.
So that's the biggest negative overlap.
But that's not a constant currency issue; that's just really the change in the overall market.
But I would say first half from a revenue standpoint is going to be slightly down in constant currency just because of those issues and the way these big projects ramp up.
And that will accelerate in terms of then our year-over-year performance in the third and fourth quarter with much better growth comps over prior year.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
We'll go next to Joe Radigan with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
First on the services gross margin how much of the improvement both the solid performance quarter and then raising the target is attributable to the electronic security piece being divested? And how much is it attributable to increased scale operational improvements mix? And how would you bucket those two pieces? Yeah.
First and foremost when you look at the service gross margin improvement ES in or ES out; if you're looking at it with everything in we have improved our service gross margins across every region sequentially from 2013 forward.
I mean there might be a little bit of a blip but overall every region's shown improvement in our service gross margins.
And again that's the combination of the mix of services that we're going after and that's also the productivity side and really scaling our overall organization.
So we see that benefit as we move forward.
Whenever you pull the ES component out you have a higher component of installation revenue in there from a service standpoint.
So you see that our overall service margin profile increases after we've divested that.
But again that was just the weighting of installation services that they had in there which come at a little bit of a lower margin.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then with the Inspur JV have you seen any signs either preliminary conversations or any indications that you'll be back in the game from the hardware side? What gives you confidence that this is – this solution you'll now be considered local enough? And then have you seen or is there any risk on the service side of that by local initiative or the fact that you have a service organization in country; you think that alleviates that risk? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Joe this is Andy.
Great questions.
Let me just give you my sense and I had a lot of conversations with folks after the press release went out.
The move towards the joint venture with Inspur for us clearly is an offensive move into the Chinese market.
By going into the minority banks who would love to buy Diebold's technology – and I've heard that from just about all the large banks in China – they would love to buy our product - will then be able again to buy Diebold's technology.
We will be able to combine Diebold's technology with the noncash technology that Inspur has.
And they don't report these numbers publicly but I can tell you there are really sold double-digit growth rates behind their business.
They run the largest cloud business in China.
So we're looking at offering cloud solutions around the financial services space through the joint venture for the large banks in China.
And on top of it all we will have the exclusive distribution rights of all the product all the IT all the innovation that we do in China for China for the global market.
And as you very well know there's many emerging markets that are akin to a Chinese requirement.
So we are extremely bullish about it.
Now why does that not show up in our top line is just simple.
From an accounting point of view the minute you go into a minority you do not consolidate the numbers.
Now to the second part of your question – and I know you probably know that – we're also having a second joint venture a services joint venture where Diebold has the majority.
And Chris had outlined it in his remarks we're actually bringing all of the service piece that Inspur has for their noncash business into the services joint venture.
We've been growing our services business in China last year despite all the buy-local stuff and we see very clear line of sight to continued growth on the service side and expand that around our technology Inspur's technology and all the cool new stuff that we're going to do.
And if you now top it all up we're taking our manufacturing site in Shanghai put it into the joint venture and it – into the product joint venture and the new joint venture will move it out of Shanghai into one of the hottest tax-free zones in China.
So we should also see another benefit for product competitiveness by being able to produce in a more cost-competitive environment in China.
I'm extremely excited about the opportunity.
And the great thing about Inspur is they know how to deal with western companies.
They've worked with Microsoft in the past.
They're in the process of doing a joint venture with Cisco around the server business.
We are lined up with a class A Chinese player that is extremely gung ho about the business opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Andy.
Thanks Chris.
Yeah.
We'll go next to Matt Summerville with Alembic Global Advisors.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sorry Matt.
Good morning.
A couple questions.
First constant currency expectations for the ATM business up 2% to 4%.
Can you talk more specifically regionally how that stacks up around the 2% to 4%? And if you can delineate a little more on product versus services that would be helpful as well.
Again around that 2% to 4%.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me give you a little color Matt on where I see the regions going and Chris will chime in with the numbers.
Biggest growth area first and foremost EMEA where our product and our services are extremely well received; especially the MEA part very encouraging.
And all the investments that we've made in 2015 in building out our sales and service infrastructure are paying off.
And we can see it in our pipeline; we can see it in our activity.
Our technology our next gen technology very well received.
So very strong in EMEA.
And the second biggest driver is going to be North America.
But on both sides of the pond the trend towards branch transformation towards savings costs to higher automation is extremely prevalent and we see that in just about every conversation that we have.
Third I would say Latin America; Spanish-speaking side of Latin America has been red hot all through 2015.
We expect that to continue in 2016.
We talked about Brazil.
We are very conservative in our Brazilian outlook but we do see upsides in the private banking sector in Brazil.
The drag is going to be Asia as Chris outlined earlier.
Great.
And then just one follow-up.
You mentioned – or I think Chris did – in your Slide 25 the $0.40 of I'll call it core improvement.
What are the major buckets driving that $0.25 to $0.40? And then what defines the high end versus the low end of that range if you will? I would say the major buckets if you just think about it across from a geographic standpoint number one continued underlying improvement in North America.
As we've highlighted very large national account bank backlog coming into the year nice growth there and so delivering on that.
That's one.
Number two getting the full-year benefit of having the multi-vendor service revenue streams in place as that was ramping up last year.
And then number three looking at the drag for lack of a better term that we had from Brazil in 2014.
Obviously not looking at that same level of repeat year on year.
And so again we also see a little bit more tepid growth that we've outlined right now in Europe but again still looking to expand in that overall market from a profitability year over year.
And again some of that's just the mix of the deals that we have coming through.
And then Asia when we look at it being a little bit of the drag that we've talked about year on year with that really being more pronounced in Q1 Q2 where we'll see that tough year-over-year comp.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
We'll go next to Joan Tong of Sidoti &amp; Company.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
It looks like you guys signed another $50 million in multi-vendor managed service business during the quarter.
Andy can you just give us like a sense of the pipeline how you're looking at that going into 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Multi-vendor and managed services pipeline extremely strong both in North America as well as in EMEA.
Actually in EMEA we see more and more exploratory conversations around full outsourcing.
As you know that some of the banks are struggling with their cost positions.
So we see all the investment that we've made in 2015 to pay off in 2016.
We expect to continue growth in that area and we'll continue to take share in the multi-vendor services space.
The thing that was really key for us was that we were able to ramp – I mean we ramped nearly 8 000 units since August without a hiccup and we got unanimous feedback from all the large accounts that these non-Diebold units never ran better than since we've got them under our service management.
And that is a great endorsement and now it's a scale game that will help us drive the business from a volume point of view as well as from a profitability point of view.
Very good.
And then I think Andy you mentioned that there was a software transaction with a regional bank in North America during the quarter.
Can you just give it a sense of like how's the regional bank activities in North America? It seems like one of your largest competitor's talking about like there's really robust activities in that particular segment.
Maybe like a quick update.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
So the regional banks have been somewhat slow in 2015.
The investment on new technology as always starts with the top banks and it goes down.
And we've seen that with all the top-four five banks and as witnessed with a large deal that we got in Q4 regional bank activity is starting to pick up especially in the branch transformation space.
We actually won three software deals with Phoenix.
The encouraging thing is two were with existing accounts; one was the new logo.
And the exciting thing was we were actually able to add 12 new logos to our regional bank portfolio in 2015 so we're expanding our market share in that space.
Very good.
And then I have a question regarding the pending acquisition.
You guys are going through the hurdles to proceed to closing on these transactions on the regulatory side and the tender offer and then the financing side.
I'm just wondering what type of pre-integration work if there's any is in progress with Wincor that you are performing right now.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Joan that's a great question.
So let me – two things.
First of all we're doing all the homework items exactly the way that we said we would and they're coming through exactly as we predicted.
Getting both the BaFin and the SEC clearance that was a lot of work.
We're really excited we got this out.
We're really excited the tender offer is out.
And by the way today Wincor Nixdorf has already announced their recommendation to their shareholders that they wholeheartedly support the deal and they're excited about the combination.
So yet another milestone that we have passed.
On the planning side two sides of the story.
Of course we still have to be competitors in the market and we definitely adhere to that.
But by the same token the collaborative spirit in which we did the business combination agreement has even grown to new heights ever since.
The planning teams are working very well together.
It's all set up in a clean room exercise and we have two solid teams on both sides who spent solid amount of times on how we're going to run the business what's the business model where are we going to go what are the potential synergy areas? Putting all the wood behind the arrow making sure that when we hit the day X plus one we know exactly who's going to do what who's going to take care of which account.
What's the product road map? Where are the low-hanging fruits and how can we reach those synergies sooner and faster? And while I'm not at liberty to disclose clean room information I can tell you the spirit in these rooms – and I'm only allowed to be in there for certain pieces of information.
But every time I leave the meeting I leave more excited than when I walked into the room.
It's a great atmosphere and we're getting so much work done that I know we will hit the deck running on day X plus one.
Thank you for the update Andy.
And a final question is for Chris regarding the cash flow.
With so many moving parts now the working capital need and some of the collection issues that we had this quarter maybe going in 2016 are you still comfortable with that $700 million in cash – or I think $2.3 billion in debt at the close of the deal? I think it was the – sort of a guidance that you provided in the past.
Yeah we're still comfortable with that.
And again looking at the combined companies and putting everything together still very comfortable with that.
And again looking to address the working capital issues here in the first half of the year.
So that's still a very good proxy.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
We'll go next to Kartik Mehta with Northcoast Research.
Hey.
Good morning.
Chris I just want to get your thoughts on the confidence in free cash flow for 2016 why you believe the trends can turn around and how quickly you believe that those trends will show up.
Well first – and again not to make a flippant comment on this but we're not looking to roll out another ERP in the fourth quarter of 2016.
So from that perspective it did create some challenges.
Not going to go backwards on that.
And again we've addressed it as we move forward.
If you look at our historical performance if you look at our collection activity we don't have major write-offs.
We don't have major negative activity and we follow a pretty typical pattern.
We're looking for that pattern to reoccur next year.
And again on the inventory side we took the hit once.
We'll continue to get better year on year and drive that back down to our typical turn level.
And so again some of those are – I look at them as one-off in nature.
If you look at our historical performance and the activities that we're going to be driving we're going to get that back on track and perform at our historical levels.
So very confident that we're going to address that and move forward.
And Chris as you look at the Wincor financing let's say by the time you have to get to the high-yield market something unexpected happens you can't get all the $500 million.
Are there contingency plans that you could you draw upon so that the acquisition could close and you can finance it? Correct.
Yeah.
We have the bridge option with the banks for the $500 million if the high-yield market is unaccessible.
And again that's where we'd be capped at the higher rate that I talked about earlier.
And then Andy just a last question.
As I listen to your comments and your comments on where you think the market is growing it seems like it is in EMEA; it is in North America rather than some of the emerging markets.
Now how do you see yourself positioned in those markets today and maybe after you close the Wincor acquisition in terms of benefiting from some of these trends that are happening in the marketplace? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Kartik I feel really good about where we are.
We got two great teams both in North America as well as in EMEA.
Your team has done a spectacular job over the last 24 months and they are extremely excited about 2016.
Having said that once we combine with Nixdorf we then have an even broader springboard to jump from and we have an even better opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities that present themselves in the EMEA market.
In our North American business as I said earlier extremely strong good pipeline good conversations.
The branch transformation automation trend on both sides of the Atlantic being the major driver behind it.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
And we'll go next to Saliq Khan with Imperial Capital.
Thank you.
Hey Andy.
Hey Chris.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Hey guys.
Couple questions for you.
For the first time your term was at the National Retail Federation conference here in New York.
And you showcased a new mobile-enabled self-checkout concept for the retail market.
Now Andy I believe this is consistent with your view of trying to become a much bigger player within the software and services side of the business.
Could you talk about how does this impact your overall total market availability and the financial projections for the second half of 2016 and as you guys are leading into 2017? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Saliq thanks for the question.
Okay.
When you look at the software side of the house it's all around omnichannel.
It's all around software-enabled transactions.
And we're putting a lot of R&amp;D and a lot of innovation into that space.
And the interesting piece is that you cannot only use it for the financial services side of the house; you can also use it on the retail side because needless to say omnichannel hits on both sides of the equation where the consumers do their transactions.
I wouldn't go as far as saying this increases our TAM at this point in time because we're still very early in the process.
But it gives us an opportunity to drive omnichannel pilot and use cases in environment that are not quite as heavily regulated as the banking environment which will actually help us to get real-life feedback and input which will help us to expedite innovation cycles.
And that's the piece that we're really after and that we're most excited about it.
And there's opportunity on the software space especially also if you take a look at all the opportunities that you have on the marketing aspect around our multi-vendor software.
Got it.
The other question I have for you is that during the quarter you guys had noted that you won a large contract for about 1 500 Diebold ATMs the installation of it.
One of the things that we have seen JPMorgan do and start doing at least here in New York City is they're using a Asian ATM provider.
What do you think they could be thinking? And how do you go about winning contracts away from the competitors who may be providing better economics? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm sorry.
I didn't get the question.
Say again.
Sure.
The 1 500 Diebold ATMs installation that you guys recently announced.
One of the things that we have seen JPMorgan at least do here in New York City is upgrade the current ATMs.
However they're going with a Asian ATM provider.
What do you think they could be thinking? And how do you guys go about winning contracts away from the competitors who may be providing better economics? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh yes.
It's very simple.
What we did at Money20/20 the work we did with Citi that's the key to this.
It's all around innovation.
We were the first vendor to introduce biometrics iris scans into the equation.
We're working with every ones of the top-five banks in this country around innovative solutions and we're getting a lot of interest from all of the top banks on partnering with Diebold in order to roll out new technologies.
The clear differentiator it's innovation part one; quality of service part two; and up-time availability as part three.
And that's a very powerful three-legged stool that we have here and it resonates extremely well with the customers.
And you can see that.
You can see it in our backlog.
Most of our wins in the second half 2015 were in the national account space in North America and we actually expect that to continue into 2016.
The top banks are spending serious dollars to innovate their go-to market to innovate the way they connect with the customers to drive software-enabled solutions and we're definitely participating in that investment.
Got it.
And the last question – and guys – and I'll hop back in the queue.
On the product gross margin side for the year it was down a little bit and we attribute that partially to the geographic mix.
Are you seeing any mid- to long-term pricing pressure which could impact your current strategy or the way that you innovate? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Now look the hardware side of the business does what all hardware does in the IT space.
It continues to be under pressure.
And you see roughly a – depending on where you are in the configurations which country you're looking at a 3% to 5% pricing pressure every year.
It's our job to make up for that through design to cost measures.
Our next gen technology platform gives us a big opportunity to fight that but it is a continuous race.
And if you take a look at the chart that was in my opening remarks you can see that we've forecasted product margins to be around flattish which says we are very confident that we can keep up with this commoditization rate and price pressure.
But by the same token we want to be cautious on our outlook not to get ahead of our skis because one year we have technology advantage.
And you got to have it every year to make sure you get a consistent thing going here.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
That looks like it's the last question in the queue.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today on our fourth quarter earnings call.
If you have questions please call the Investor Relations number or send us an email.
Thanks very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Diebold Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Mr.
John Kristoff.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Cathy.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Diebold's fourth quarter conference call.
Joining me today are Andy Mattes President and CEO; and Chris Chapman Vice President Global Finance and Interim Principal Financial Officer.
Just a few notes before we get started.
In addition to the earnings release we've provided a supplementary presentation on the Investor page of our website.
Andy and Chris will be walking through this presentation as part of their comments today and we encourage you to follow along.
As with past calls it is important to note that we are excluding certain restructuring charges nonroutine income expenses and impairment charges from our non-GAAP financial results.
We believe that excluding these items gives an indication of the company's baseline operational performance.
As a result many of the remarks this morning will focus on non-GAAP financial information.
For a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP numbers please refer to the supplemental material at the end of the presentation.
In addition all results of operations reported today including prior periods exclude discontinued operations.
Finally a replay of this conference call will be available later today from our website.
And as a reminder some of the comments today may be considered forward-looking statements.
Internal and/or external factors could significantly impact actual results.
As a precaution please refer to the more detailed risk factors that have previously been filed with the SEC.
And now with opening remarks I'll turn it over to Andy.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today as we discuss our fourth quarter and full year results.
Our ongoing business improvement and cost reduction efforts continued to build momentum in the quarter.
We remain focused on our 4 core pillars: cost cash talent and growth.
And driving a culture grounded in accountability and delivering on our commitments.
The progress we've made so far is encouraging.
However we still have a lot of heavy lifting in front of us as we work through the crawl phase of our crawl walk run approach to our turnaround efforts.
Our people recognize we're playing a game of interests and we're mining for those interests in every corner of our operation.
There are several items I will be covering today: first the key takeaways from our results; second a regional update; third an update on our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy; and finally our outlook for 2014.
Before we get started I'm pleased to say our Board of Directors has elected to maintain our quarterly dividend at its current level.
We are confident in our ability to generate the cash necessary to maintain a strong dividend while being in the midst of a major transformation effort.
Chris will share more information behind our working capital performance later on the call.
Now let's discuss the key takeaways from our results.
As we've been communicating we are a cost and cash play in the crawl stage of our turnaround in 2013 and 2014.
And during the second half of 2013 we continued to execute on these important areas.
First operating profit came in near the higher end of our expectations.
Second we finished well within the full year revenue and EPS guidance we provided in early August even with a higher-than-expected full year non-GAAP effective tax rate.
Third we improved total gross margin by approximately 150 basis points in the second half of 2013 compared with the prior year period.
As we have previously discussed we continue to focus on growing and improving our service business to more than offset the margin pressure we're seeing on the product side.
Finally I'm proud of our global team and would like to recognize them for driving significant improvements in working capital which enabled us to generate strong free cash flow in the second half of the year.
Our employees across the globe stepped up to the plate and did a remarkable job to drive these improvements.
Now let's talk about some trends we're seeing in our markets.
I will primarily focus my commentary around orders while Chris will provide more color around revenue and profitability.
Total orders for both product and services for the fourth quarter grew 10% or 12% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year product and services orders grew 4% or 6% on constant currency.
In North America total product and service orders grew during the quarter 7% and security orders in North America were up 1% with growth in Electronic Security largely offset by a decline in physical security.
Total financial service orders for product and services were up 10%.
So let's take a look at where this increased demand is coming from.
Deposit automation and branch transformation continued to gain momentum throughout the financial self-service market in North America.
For example you might have seen the recent featured article in American Banker on Fifth Third's branch transformation strategy.
In support of this strategy we just announced that Fifth Third Bank is the first customer to roll out our mixed-media deposit automation solution.
Another recent example is First Citizens National Bank in Tennessee where we are helping our customer implement a branch transformation strategy that includes deposit automation and leading edge in-lobby teller technology within the branch.
We also announced an agreement with Vantage West Credit Union to transform the financial institution into a teller-less branch using a variety of branch transformation technology.
In addition we continue to see a lot of interest related to Windows 7 upgrades and our sales opportunity pipeline has noticeably increased.
Looking at our Electronic Security business we continue to see order growth in both the commercial and financial spaces which was largely offset by continued declines in our legacy physical security business.
We ended the year with more than 60 new commercial industry customers and closed some key wins within the financial space related to security monitoring which is in line with our strategy to expand our recurring revenue base.
Also our web-based security management platform SecureStat which we demonstrated at our investor day in New York has quickly gained traction in the industry.
To date we have approximately 200 customers and 10 000 sites utilizing this software-as-a-service solution.
In EMEA orders for the fourth quarter grew 15% or 13% on a constant currency basis.
The movement towards branch transformation is also having a positive impact in the EMEA market and has provided us with a renewed opportunity to expand our presence there.
This is reflected in our financial results with both orders and revenue up double digits for both the full year and the quarter.
One example we announced during the quarter was a partnership with UniCredit in Italy to add cash recycling capabilities to the bank's ATM fleet with a 3-year hardware and maintenance services agreement.
Moving to Asia Pacific orders are down 26% for the quarter or 23% on a constant currency basis.
Volume during the quarter was down due to a cost comparison to the prior year period when we received several large orders from India.
However on a full year basis orders grew 4% or 6% on constant currency basis as we continue to see steady growth in this emerging market region.
In Latin America we had a mixed year.
Total orders for the fourth quarter were down 15% compared to the prior year period.
However we ended the year with improved backlog which positions us well for growth in 2014.
We're beginning to see more interest in our Electronic Security offerings in this region.
For example one of the deals that we recently announced is a contract to design and implement a complex video system to monitor the ship traffic traversing the Panama Canal.
In Brazil orders for the quarter more than doubled on a constant currency basis which includes a large order in the lottery business.
Excluding this deal orders were up 16% on constant currency.
Looking at our total business for the year we grew international revenue as a percentage of our total which now represents 52% of total revenue.
This growth will continue to put near-term pressure on our product margin.
However in the long term we're building a high-margin service base with recurring revenue in these areas as they mature.
We continued our trend of revenue growth in services and software.
We also progressed on our path to higher service gross margin as we continued to expand into higher value-add services.
Now I will provide a brief update on our Diebold 2.0 turnaround strategy and a few key initiatives as it relates to the 8-point program we previously outlined.
First as it relates to establishing a competitive cost structure during the second half of the year we increased our savings target to $150 million in gross savings and $75 million of net savings over 3 years.
In 2013 we delivered the first $60 million of gross savings of which about $30 million benefited the bottom line.
The improvement can be seen particularly in SG&amp;A and service gross margin.
Moving forward we will continue to monitor the pace of our reinvestments to ensure we achieve our $20 million to $25 million net savings target for 2014.
Second in driving improved cash flow -- free cash flow we had strong cash generation in the quarter which enabled us to finish the year with a $3 million improvement from 2012.
This ended our annual decline in free cash flow since 2009.
Third in regards to improving sales effectiveness we have aligned the goals and objectives of our sales force worldwide.
Specifically we have simplified our sales compensation structure from around 80 distinct local plans down to just 10 to help drive greater efficiency and alignment across our global sales organization.
Finally as we look to instill a winning culture grounded in execution we've been keenly focused on change management within the company.
We've spent a great deal of time communicating with our people to share the urgency behind change holding many town hall meetings around the world and hosting a global leader meeting at headquarters to cascade our turnaround strategy across multiple layers of the company and generate excitement and momentum around Diebold 2.0.
From a compensation perspective we have instituted a pay-for-performance bonus program to virtually all 6 000 employees in North America in lieu of standard merit increases.
This strategy here is to better align personal rewards with company performance measures and provide employees the opportunity to earn more than they would have with a typical merit increase.
In addition the board has approved a turnaround performance share grant for about 80 of our top global managers.
This aligns our turnaround objectives with the higher equity ownership philosophy amongst our global leadership team.
Before I move on to our outlook for 2014 let me provide a quick update on the key leadership positions we're filling.
Last month we announced that Octavio Marquez joined our company to lead the Latin America operation.
Octavio brings to us a solid track record of success throughout his career at several high-tech companies most recently at EMC and has demonstrated the ability to launch and sustain growth in the technology sector in the Latin America market.
He's a tremendous addition to our global leadership team.
On Tuesday we announced another outstanding addition to our leadership team with the appointment of Neil Emerson who will lead our Asia-Pac operations.
Neil's background in profitably growing professional services most recently with the TMF Group and technology companies throughout his carrier in Asia including HP and IBM will make him extremely beneficial to Diebold's transformation efforts moving forward.
Regarding our search for a new CFO we have identified several strong candidates and are making steady progress.
We are focused on finding the right person for this role and will communicate the status of the search process to you as we move forward.
Moving on to our outlook for 2014 we are reaffirming our full year guidance for both revenue and earnings.
Chris will share more details on this front later on the call.
In conclusion we got our transformation efforts off to a good start in the second half of 2013 and delivered on the expectations that we set.
There's no question that a tremendous amount of work is ahead of us as we move from crawl to walk and finally the run phase of our transformation.
Moving forward we will continue our focus on controlling cost generating more cash and attracting retaining and energizing top talent to generate long-term profitable growth.
We will continue to adhere to the motto "We say what we'll do and we'll do what we say." With that I'll turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
First I will walk you through our fourth quarter financial performance and provide a brief explanation behind changes to our segment reporting structure.
I will then update you on the legal and compliance front discuss our 2014 revenue earnings and free cash flow outlook and talk about the strategy behind our dividend.
Now to review our financial results.
Turning to Slide 16 total revenue for the quarter was down 3% or 2% on a constant currency basis as a result of lower volume in North America and Latin America.
The lower volume in North America is a result of the regional business having leveled off earlier this year.
In Latin America the decline was due to the timing of large installation projects across the region but we are encouraged by the strong year-end backlog.
The currency impact was mainly driven by a weakening of the Brazilian real.
Taking a look at the full year 2013 total revenue decreased 4.5% or 3% on a constant currency basis due to reduced volumes in North America -- in our North America business segment.
This stems from the tough comparison with the strong 2012 driven by ADA/PCI upgrade activity.
Asia Pacific and EMEA both showed solid growth over prior year up 12% and 11% respectively which includes an approximate 1.5% currency impact in both regions.
Brazil's full year revenue was down 8% driven by the weakening real and customer postponed implementation schedules for several large orders.
On a constant currency basis Brazil would've been up 2% over prior year.
Latin America was down 6% largely due to the timing of several ongoing projects throughout the region.
As we move to Slide 17 financial self-service revenue was essentially flat for the quarter or up 2% on a constant currency basis with declines in North America largely offset by increases in EMEA and Brazil.
For the full year financial self-service revenue decreased 4% which includes a negative currency impact of 2%.
The decline is primarily attributable to the North America regional business partially offset with increased volume in our North America national accounts Asia Pacific and EMEA businesses.
Security revenue as depicted on Slide 18 was down 6.5% compared with the prior year period with a 14% decline in physical security related to our North America business.
Electronic Security was essentially flat with continued improvement in North America offset by some installation delays in Latin America.
Looking at the full year results our security revenue was down 1% with physical security down 7% offset by an improvement in Electronic Security of 5%.
On Slide 19 gross margin for the quarter improved 2.1 percentage points to 24.7%.
This was driven by a solid improvement in service gross margin which increased 7.3 percentage points to 31.2%.
This improvement reflects the benefit of our service transformation efforts across the globe.
In addition the fourth quarter benefits from seasonally higher installation volume.
Product gross margin decreased 4.1 percentage points to 17%.
This was driven by customer mix differences in the U.S.
business and from a higher mix of Asia Pacific and Brazil volume which typically carry lower product margins.
We remain focused on our cost actions and driving additional efficiencies to show sustainable improvements in total gross margin.
Moving on to Slide 20 total operating expense decreased $5.3 million compared with the fourth quarter 2012 as our cost savings efforts continued to take hold.
Operating expense as a percentage of revenue was flat at approximately 18% on lower volume.
Turning to Slide 21 non-GAAP operating margin in the fourth quarter increased 2.1 percentage points to 7% versus the same period in 2012.
We are encouraged with the initial improvements we've made to our cost structure but we still have a lot of work in front of us.
Now I would like to highlight the changes we are making to our segment reporting starting with our 2013 10-K.
Historically we have reported the company segments as Diebold North America and Diebold International with a further breakdown of the international revenue by Asia Pacific EMEA and Latin America including Brazil.
In line with changes with our internal management reporting structure moving forward we will be reporting our revenue and regional operating profit in the following 5 segments as shown on Slide 22: North America Asia Pacific EMEA Latin America and Brazil.
The global functions not included in these segments such as corporate global development information technology and procurement functions will be reported as a separate single line item.
These changes are in line with our current management structure and we feel will provide greater visibility to our regional performance.
The company will continue to report revenue by product line including financial self-service security and election and lottery systems.
EPS on a GAAP basis was a $0.65 loss during the quarter.
This includes restructuring charges of $0.36 related to the voluntary early retirement program and nonroutine and amortization expense of $0.72 the majority of which is attributable to pension accounting primarily associated with the voluntary early retirement plan.
In addition we had an impairment charge of $0.02 and the impact of the deferred tax expense on foreign cash repatriation of $0.12.
The combination of these factors brings us to $0.57 earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis for the fourth quarter.
Our full year non-GAAP effective tax rate excluding the Brazil valuation allowance booked in the second quarter of 2013 was approximately 33% which exceeded our previous guidance of 28% to 30%.
Their higher tax rate is primarily the result of the company's final mix of income across the various tax jurisdictions and one-off discrete tax items including the release of a valuation allowance in the company's Swiss entity partially offset by the establishment of a valuation allowance in the company's Italian entity.
Moving on to cash flow on Slide 24 I am very pleased with the efforts made throughout the company to drive significant improvements in our free cash flow during the quarter with a special thanks to our teams led by George Mayes with a continued focus on our working capital initiatives.
The results in the quarter exceeded our internal expectations and reflect an improvement of $23 million versus the same period last year.
Looking at Slide 25 our full year free cash flow improved $3 million over prior year and was more than enough to cover our annual dividend payout despite several large one-time payments.
We are encouraged that we've been able to stabilize our annual free cash flow given the trend in recent years.
Turning to Slide 26 the organization's focused efforts resulted in a DSO improvement of 18 days in the quarter and 3 days for the year.
Looking at Slide 27 inventory turns improved to 5.9 also showing solid improvement over both prior quarter and year.
Additionally we experienced higher early and prepayment activity from our customers.
This is reflected in our deferred revenue and accounts receivable balances resulting in approximately $30 million of benefit in full year free cash flow results.
We will continue to bring additional discipline and focus across our global teams to improve our cash generation activities.
Net debt on Slide 28 for the period was $50.8 million a $29.3 million increase from the prior year period.
The net debt to capital ratio increased 3 percentage points to 5%.
As we discussed during the previous earnings calls we've executed on our strategy to repatriate approximately $275 million cash from our international operations which was used to pay down debt.
Turning to Slide 29 as previously disclosed the company has reached agreement with the DOJ and the SEC on the terms of a settlement regarding FCPA including combined payments to the U.S.
government of approximately $48 million which were made in the fourth quarter.
Additionally as previously disclosed we will have an independent compliance monitor for a minimum period of 18 months and are in the process of working with the government agencies to identify the compliance monitor.
We feel we have made considerable improvements to our compliance program and will continue to implement enhancements as the need is identified.
As previously disclosed one of our Brazilian subsidiaries was notified in the third quarter of 2012 of a tax assessment of $133 million regarding certain Brazilian federal indirect taxes for 2008 and 2009.
We continue to feel strongly about our legal position relative to this assessment and are committed to remediating our indirect tax mature weakness and our internal controls.
Looking at Slide 30 we are reconfirming our revenue guidance expecting it to be up in the low single digits and we are maintaining non-GAAP EPS guidance of $1.65 to $1.85.
We expect restructuring charges nonroutine expenses and amortization to be in the $0.30 to $0.40 range and our full year non-GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
We are encouraged by the strong increase in year-end backlog.
However a significant portion of that increase sits in regions with high currency risk which could weigh on our earnings growth.
In terms of our earnings expectations on a seasonal basis we expect first half earnings to substantially improve off a relatively easy comparison to the prior year and driven by the benefit of our cost initiatives.
Having said that the year will still follow our normal seasonality and be weighted more heavily towards the second half.
Additionally as we previously discussed we will be ramping up our reinvestment in the business as the savings are realized.
In regards to our free cash flow outlook for 2014 on Slide 31 we are forecasting free cash flow for the year of $80 million to $100 million.
This includes an approximate $35 million increase in our capital expenditures as we make strategic reinvestments in our business.
Next I would like to provide an update on our dividend strategy.
As we have consistently communicated we are committed to maintaining a strong dividend as part of our investment thesis.
As Andy indicated our Board of Directors declared a first quarter cash dividend of $0.2875 per share on all common shares which maintains an annual dividend of $1.15 per share.
We are confident in our ability to generate more than enough cash to support our dividend and reinvest in the business.
Our long-term target payout ratio is approximately 35% of non-GAAP after tax earnings.
And we are confident in our ability to maintain our dividend and grow into this payout ratio over time.
In closing we continue to have a lot of work in front of us as Diebold transforms itself into a world-class services-led software-enabled company.
We are committed to continuous improvements to maintain and strengthen our control environment while operationally reducing our costs and improving our working capital efficiencies.
We continue to strengthen our capacity to reinvest and position the company for future growth.
With that I'll turn the call back to John.
Thanks Chris.
Cathy we'd like to take our first question at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Gil Luria from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> On a regional basis it looks like you've been making a lot of progress in EMEA.
In that region you had double-digit growth.
Your competitors were flat to down in that region and you doubled your profitability.
Do you think there's more improvement that you can have in that region? Gil we're very proud of the EMEA team.
We're very encouraged by the opportunity and branch transformation relevels the playing field and gives Diebold a great opportunity to go through doors that previously weren't open to us so we continue to be excited about EMEA and we'll continue to invest in that geography.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of Brazil what are your expectations for some of the big orders you've talked about in the past rolling out this year? And how big is the lottery business going to be this year? Gil from a lottery perspective right now we're looking at approximately $40 million to $50 million in 2014.
With regards to the rollout of the large tenders what we've talked about in the past we had some delays there.
We are expecting in the first half of the year and throughout 2014 that we're going to start to pull through the large tender.
We're still finalizing some certifications on the second one and so expect those to start rolling out more in the third and fourth quarter of this year maybe some of it even pushing into 2015.
And next we'll move to Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Chris you mentioned backlog.
Can you give us a backlog number year-end '13 versus year-end '12 and then the mix of backlog that you would term in locales with a bit riskier FX situations? At a high level I don't have the exact number in front of me here Matt.
High level we're looking at approximately $100 million increase over prior year.
Our year-end backlog in 2013 of approximately $720 million.
In terms of the overall mix as I noted that maturity of the gross is -- that we've seen there is really coming from some of our international markets.
And I would characterize the mix is about probably about 50-50 maybe a little bit heavier weighted to the international on the overall backlog.
Research Division</strong> And then I just wanted to dig a little bit deeper into granularity on your orders in North America.
To make it more comparable can you guys provide a product-only sort of order number and then talk about a little bit more specificity behind what you're seeing in national banks versus regionals and I guess what your sort of outlook is that you've embedded into your '14 guidance there? Matt the product-only growth in North America was 28% in the last quarter and we are cautiously optimistic about the U.S.
business going forward.
Deposit automation branch transformation Windows 7 upgrades the order books are starting to fill up.
The sales pipeline is ramping up very nicely.
And it's going to pan out pretty much like what we told you in New York.
We believe that this is going to be a second half '14 order play that will probably be a '15 revenue play.
And just think about Windows 7.
There's not a hard must-do-it-by April 8 date.
It's really a soft leading into the upgrade.
You've got EMV upgrade coming at the tail of it.
All the financial institutions are starting to get their arms around it and we're seeing more activity in the market.
Research Division</strong> So I guess to put a finer point on that do you expect your small bank revenue in North America to grow in 2014? And what sort of rate would be reasonable -- a reasonable expectation behind that? That's the point I was trying to make.
I expect our smaller bank orders to grow in '14.
Whether and how fast it will revenue that's still to be seen.
The revenue is probably going to be more flattish and we probably will enter '15 with a higher smaller regional bank backlog than we have before.
Our next question will come from Paul Coster of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first sort of relate to Europe.
So -- and Diebold was big in Europe then it withdrew in large parts and now it sort of feels like you are rebuilding.
Can you sort of talk to us about where you stand strategically in Europe? And then the related question is how does branch transformation in Europe differ if at all from that in North America? Happy to do so Paul.
Let me start with the last part of your question.
The biggest difference and probably the biggest geographic driver in Europe for branch transformation is the U.K.
at this point in time.
And if you think about it the U.K.
market did not have the unnatural spike that we had in the U.S.
with the ADA compliance and the installed base is actually pretty old in the U.K.
and all the financial institutions are now looking at a normal upgrade cycle looking at new technology.
And needless to say if that's what you're doing right now you definitely want to pressure-test branch transformation and take advantage of the latest technology as you optimize your banking model which is exactly what's going on in the U.K.
And given that this is new technology the doors have reopened and we are in with 4 of the 5 major banks in the U.K.
that we did not have any footprint in before.
If you take that and then say "What's Diebold's strategy to EMEA?" Our strategy for the last years has been and will continue to go forward be more account-centric than country-centric.
When we ran a country-centric model the OpEx and the ramp-up costs got out of kilter.
When we do it account by account you can be smarter about it you can throttle forward when you see the orders coming in.
You can throttle back if you run into some headwinds.
So we're continuing to invest in our corporate account strategy in Europe.
You've seen our recent wins in Spain with large companies like BBVA that underpin this strategy and we'll also continue to build momentum in the MEA part of EMEA especially in the Middle East and we'll continue to invest into that geography.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then the other question I've got is the service margins have improved as you've turned that into sort of -- it's a business I guess.
But can they be improved from here? It's structurally a lot easier when you start mixing in a lot of software right? But service in isolation what needs to happen for the margins to continue to move north in that area? Well I think you nailed it.
We are starting to manage service as a business and we're getting out of it being a pure delivery model into a business model and there are many levers that we can pull when you think about it.
One and the most powerful is that we're thinking about it as a global business and not a country-centric model.
In the old days Diebold had dispatch managers inventory service managers in every country.
Workforce planning was done on a country level.
We've pulled all of that up into a regional level and we'll continue to pull it up into a global level.
You then add the IT investments that we are doing on the other side which enables you to run dispatch from offshore lower-cost geographies for other parts in the world.
You combine that with the fact that we've upgraded our complete fleet in the U.S.
with GPS systems so that dispatchers can be smarter and we actually use technology to get our technicians on-site sooner and faster to take the efforts we're done -- doing on the inventory side as we're able to reduce the inventory levels in the truck as we upgrade our products that will have more enhanced services capabilities.
So we are very bullish about the opportunities we have in services and software.
And the more we progress on our transformation the more global we are the more tools we can introduce the more standardized our approach is we can increase the margins and -- and that's the important part keep the customer satisfaction and keep our first call -- first time fixed rate at the levels where they are because the quality of Diebold service is one of the key differentiators and we want to use that as a springboard not only for margin expansion but also for revenue expansion.
And next we have Matt Lipton of Autonomous Research.
On the same topic of margin I'm just curious of the $75 million that -- of the cost take-out that's going to flow over the bottom line.
How should we think about mix based on all the things you were just describing Andy between savings on the gross margin front versus savings on total OpEx and operating margin? Matt this is Chris.
How I would think about that again it's probably split about 50-50.
You're going to see about half of that coming through the gross margin side the other half through op expense.
But I would say that the majority of our reinvestments that you're going to see from the development side from the IT and from additional investments in our people and sales organization are going to come through more on the op expense side.
So you're going to see a little bit of that in a distribution impact that'll be -- that that won't be linear as we have more of the reinvestments that come back through our op expense.
Great.
And then I think I noticed on Slide 30 that the tax rate in the guidance went up from 28% to 30% from where you had guided at analyst day.
So are you feeling just more confident in operating margin and kind of the cost take-out for '14? Or should we just kind of think about the midpoint maybe being lower just a touch on the side that the tax rate is higher.
Well I would say yes to your first question.
We are feeling more confident about that.
With regards specifically to the 30% tax rate we're looking at our current full year mix of income across the various tax jurisdictions.
And also given our change in assertion from an APB 23 standpoint on our cash repatriation efforts we are seeing a little bit of headwinds on that where the tax rate is probably up another 1% or 2% there as well.
So it's the combination of those factors that we've now taken into account that 30% range that we've provided.
Great.
And then just last one for me Andy or Chris whoever wants to answer this.
On deposit automation I've seen lots of different stats out there as far as the number of ATMs whether it's in North America or globally that already have the technology.
But when you think about the deposit automation and things you're talking about today specifically those that don't require envelopes or can be multi-currency checks like you were talking about how much of runway do we have there versus just the kind of old deposit automation that was sticking an envelope into an ATM? There's a lot of runway on that one.
To give you an example we've just upgraded one large Canadian company to deposit automation and it's actually the first in the whole country to introduce that technology.
So I'd say you'll see just about all the financial institutions in North America and in other countries where there is still a high usage of checks going down that route and that will continue to be a volume driver for the next years.
Just let me try to frame it up for you.
That's probably 3/4 of the installed base in the United States that still does not have this technology.
So you can...
That's helpful.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Kartik Mehta of Northcoast Research.
Andy a question on the VERP for you.
It seems as though one of the biggest assets Diebold has is its service organizations.
As the VERP gets implemented how are you making certain that your service levels don't drop and that that asset doesn't fall in the eyes of your customers? Kartik that is the main to-do that we have and we monitor this very carefully.
You then superimpose 2 other things.
We also -- not only did we do the VERP but more importantly we've streamlined the management structure in our service operations especially in the U.S.
which means we had to rewire if you want to use that term every one of our service technician to different management codes in the system given the fact that our IT systems aren't fully upgraded yet.
So we're monitoring this very very carefully.
But here's the good news.
I look at these stats every week.
Did we see a blip? Yes.
Was it significant? No.
Interesting enough we surveyed our customers after we had taken out the 700 FTEs last year and customer satisfaction index went up after we had reduced the workforce.
So our people on the ground are doing an extraordinarily great job of making sure that customer satisfaction is keeping up and that we go into the new line-up in a smooth and transparent way for our clients.
And then Chris for cash flow expectations for 2014 you indicated $35 million more in CapEx.
Are there any other one-time expenses that you'd anticipate in that guidance you gave? Yes Kartik.
When you look at 2014 it's still not what I would consider a normal year for us.
On a go-forward basis we'll say as we get more to the latter stages of our turnaround here I would expect approximately 80% to 90% of our after-tax earnings to flow through this cash flow.
If you look at some of the big items that we still have in 2014 I talked about the additional $35 million from an investment standpoint and the CapEx.
We also have the VERP action that concluded at the end of 2013.
We have approximately $25 million in payout for that that's to be coming.
We have an approximate other as we outlined in the guidance $0.30 to $0.40 worth of additional restructuring nonroutine actions.
We saw some actions out in front of us that we're going to have to pay for in 2014.
Call that approximately $25 million as well and not necessarily nonroutine given we've had it both years but we're also looking at it probably another $10 million or so of cash tax that we're going to have to pay out on our repatriation efforts in 2014.
So you look at a couple of those large items and that weighs a little bit on the overall number.
But I would say the $80 million to $100 million that we're getting that's all-in inclusive of all activities that we see in front of us in 2014.
So Chris if I add these numbers right so it's $60 million plus the $35 million in additional CapEx that if you take all those out you still get to your guidance free cash flow guidance you gave.
Is that correct? Absolutely.
Our free cash flow guidance of $80 million to $100 million is inclusive of all of those actions that I've-- all of those items that I've just outlined.
And then just -- Andy just one last question.
The CapEx increase would you anticipate is this kind of a one-time CapEx increase? Or as the company becomes more innovative and you need to invest will the CapEx continue to increase? I think you just answered it.
We are -- one of the major elements of our 8-point turnaround program is to drive innovation in a collaborative fashion with our customers and our partners which means we will continue to invest.
Now if you ask me today "Will this investment be primarily CapEx or more OpEx?" These things might float between the categories but we will continue to invest in innovation because that lays the foundation for the revenue growth targets that we've set ourselves internally.
And next we have Jeff Kessler with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> Question is you've noted that a large percentage of your backlog is in -- are in countries that let's just say have higher risk both higher risk in terms of politics but perhaps more importantly higher risk in terms of currency.
How do you deal with the currency risk based either on hedging or planned repatriation? What do you do to try to mitigate that risk as much as possible? Well Jeff I mean we do not try to get into hedge accounting on our P&amp;L.
Again we look to do as much as possible I would say from a margin standpoint to focus on localization of our procured parts and really try to drive it from that standpoint.
With regards to where our cash is located there are some hedging procedures that we do do to try to offset some of that potential risk.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Secondly noticing that the physical part of your security business fell this quarter which actually is somewhat in line with what we're seeing with some of the other large providers of access and locks and things like that in this quarter against the flat background for electronic what percentage of the security business as of the end of the year has electronic become relative to the whole of security? If you're looking on a revenue mix it's slight -- the scale's slightly tipped towards the electronic I'd say it's probably in the 53% to 56%-ish range.
On the order side there's no question the order's growth is coming from the Electronic Security business.
Having said that we see an interesting phenomena in the conversations.
It's not panning out in the orders numbers yet.
But once financial institutions truly think through branch transformation to the very end and they are going to one of the later stages which is reassessing and reformatting their branch footprint you will actually end up with some form of a physical security opportunity because when you relocate a branch the new branch will need a lock and safety deposit box and all that good stuff.
So we are observing this very carefully and making sure that when we talk branch transformation we talk end to end and we include the physical and security aspects in that business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can you put any numbers or any timeframe around the Panama Canal contract? I honestly don't have the numbers handy right now.
We can give you -- John can give you that in an off-line conversation.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One final question that is you mentioned -- you did mention earlier and correct me if I'm wrong that there was -- you have some opportunity with regard to the DMV upgrade.
Am I incorrect in hearing that? No.
I said deposit automation not DMV.
LLC</strong> Deposit automation okay that's what I needed to know.
And next we have Justin Bergner of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I have a few questions this morning.
First of all with regards to Electronic Security I believe you mentioned some delays in Latin America.
Could you maybe quantify sort of what the revenue growth in the electronic side might have looked like without those delays in Latin America? Or perhaps what it looked like in North America? From a full-year standpoint those delays in Latin America probably cost us about 1.5% or so on the full year.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Were those mainly concentrated in the fourth quarter or were they spread out over the year? That was mainly in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then a second question just to clarify on capital expenditures your outlook slides said that capital expenditures are supposed to increase $35 million.
I guess that would be off of the $35 million base in 2013 and that would get one to $70 million.
That's only a slight increase from the outlook that was provided at your investor day right? That's not a material change.
Is it? Correct correct.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then third I wanted to compliment the organization on the improvement in working capital which was pretty impressive ending the year.
And I just wanted to get a sense as to what actions drove that.
Is there room for further improvement how I should think about that in terms of its contribution in your term -- in your 2014 free cash flow guidance? Let me start with the overall statement and then Chris can go into the detail.
The biggest change we have made last year is that we started to compensate people on free cash flow and that we've taken the whole free cash flow conversation the whole metrics the whole working capital metrics out of the finance corner of the organization and made it mainstream in the operational reviews.
So there was not a week that we did not review DSOs and DIOs and went down on -- down to the contract level in every one of our geographies.
And it just changed the way the organization started to think about it.
Yes.
To add to what Andy said I mean there was a tremendous amount of very hard work to achieve the overall results.
With respect to how we look at that on a go-forward basis for additional improvement we did achieve some solid results and by no means are we going to rest now and stop where we're at.
We did get some benefit and we've outlined that in the DSO performance on some prepay pay ahead activity but we continue to focus on that mainly on the process side and really driving that.
So again we expect to continue to try to drive that but I would note there's always that impact of potential regional mix and timing to some things in the year which could impact.
On the inventory side outstanding improvement versus prior year we've set a new year-end mark that we've seen for a number of years.
And so again a lot of real hard work there.
And again we're going to continue to try to drive and maintain that inventory performance at those levels as we go forward.
But again I would note the timing of how -- the timing of how those overall balances will play out as we start to experience a little bit of growth.
So again we can maintain the efficiency from a metric standpoint but we can still see some slight growth in those balances in the year as we start to grow the company slightly.
Inc.</strong> Very good.
So if you're maintaining your free cash flow guidance in 2014 having enjoyed this benefit in working capital in the end of 2013 it would sort of suggest that there's no give-back at the very least? Correct correct.
You could look at it Justin to say we have $30 million of prepayment activities that we're not modeling back in but we're looking at additional efficiencies in our working capital to offset that and maintain it over year.
And next we have Meghna Ladha of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Andy back at the analyst day in November it appeared that you were not satisfied with the current level of cost cuts at the company.
What other areas within the company do you see additional cost take-out opportunities? Let's do this one step at a time.
We told you that we're going to do $150 million we'll do the $150 million.
We're starting to work internally to identify target areas after this and we'll gladly disclose those once we've made more progress on our $150 million.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Andy if you could talk about the competitive landscape on the ATM business not just the U.S.
but globally.
Are you seeing any market share shifts? Everybody -- we're in a very close-knit market so everybody of course has a biased view.
We see definitely a momentum shift towards Diebold given where we are on our customer base so customer mix drive volume but we also see opportunities in the services business.
Let me give you the example that I've given you in New York.
Again with the Bankia deal in Spain as we're branching out into multi-vendor services that opens a complete new TAM to Diebold and provides new sales opportunities for us.
And so if you take the overall look which is why we like to talk about orders for product and services we feel like we're picking up service market share from other parties that are out there in the market.
In many cases these will also be smaller service partners that are out there.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
And just last question for Chris.
Chris how much cash is lying abroad that you could potentially repatriate in the future if need be? Our expectations for 2014 are approximately I'd say about $60 million to $80 million that we're looking at repatriating this year in an efficient manner.
And we'll now go to Glenn Mattson of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Most of my questions have been answered but one thing I was curious about was a competitor in the security space noted that there was significant pricing pressure in the marketplace.
Is that -- do you think that's a result of Diebold kind of disrupting the market a little bit? Or is that something you're seeing as well? You know what the bigger question we have in our security market is how do we increase our coverage.
For instance in North America we've just added 25 salespeople because it goes back to the old paradigm you sell more when you show up.
So we're focusing on coverage on account penetration and on close rates and win rates.
Pricing has not been on the forefront of our internal conversations in that business in the last 6 months.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess lastly in Asia the I guess weaker results year-over-year would you say that's mostly just a result of tough comps in India or is China pretty stable? Or -- what's your take on that? I'll let Chris do the detail on the number but China is an interesting market for -- I think for all Western players predictability in that market is somewhat limited very tough competition.
And the other thing is we see -- we continuously see the trend to a razor-razorblade model especially in India and that will shift the way that the numbers will flow through because the service revenue and more important the more accretive service margin that are associated with the unit will show up over a longer period of time.
So quarterly compares could be more out of whack in that geography than anywhere else.
And I was just going to add we do have a small impact year-over-year from a currency standpoint and Andy really nailed it Glenn from a margin standpoint.
That's where we've disclosed that we saw some more of our product margin pressure in the Asia side and expect that to be returned over a longer period in the service -- in our service margins.
And with that ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Kristoff for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you Cathy.
I'd just like to take a moment to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
Now as always if you have any follow-up questions Jamie Finefrock or myself will be available the remainder of the week.
Thanks.
And with that ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you again for your participation.