Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Co.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods Corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Doris and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
We issued an earnings release this morning which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided today are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude the expenses related to facility closings and reorganizations expenses related to closed and expected-to-close acquisitions divestitures and other non-recurring items in order to enable you to make meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods.
The earnings release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated results along with reconciliations between GAAP and adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding our branding initiatives expected cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q and in today's press release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Engles our Chairman and CEO; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off by providing a general review of the results walking through the performance of the operating units and current business trends.
Following Gregg Shaun will offer additional comments on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for some additional commentary on the forward outlook and other call closing comments.
We will then open the call for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and thank you for the lapidary style of that forward-looking statement.
As you know we entered 2011 with significant headwinds in the Fresh Dairy business.
Processor profits for fluid milk have been significantly reduced over the last 2 years.
Retailer strategy to discount private label milk the spillover effect on branded milk volumes and ensuing direct pressure for price concessions have impacted the entire processing industry.
Weak sales volumes across fresh milk and related products have compounded our challenges.
To address these issues it was imperative that we take prompt focused actions to stem the decline and begin to rebuild our profitability.
During the first quarter we focused on 3 business fundamentals: accelerated cost reduction price realization to pass through input cost inflation and volume performance.
These activities will continue to be our focus throughout 2011.
While we have a long way to go at Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar I am cautiously optimistic that the trajectory of our business is upward and that we're on a path for continued progress as we move through the balance of the year.
In our other major business segment WhiteWave-Alpro continued to perform well with both strong top and bottom line growth against a tough overlap and an unfavorable holiday calendar.
For the first quarter we delivered $0.14 of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Consolidated operating income was $107 million with all platforms performing above our ingoing expectations.
Net debt declined $95 million aided by the sale of Mountain High yogurt in the quarter.
Since the close the first quarter we've further reduced our debt by $155 million through the sale of our private label Yogurt business and receipt of a tax refund.
Overall the business is off to a stronger start than we had anticipated and we're somewhat encouraged as we look to the balance of the year.
Our team has responded decisively to deteriorating cost and volume environment of early 2011 quickly driving costs out of the business and working to offset inflation through effective input cost pass through.
After a slow start in January and February March showed market improvement.
For the quarter we significantly outperformed our expectations based on early quarter conditions.
This outperformance versus expectations was driven in large part by strong overdelivery against our cost targets in FDD-Morningstar and in corporate.
We've significantly stepped up our short-term cost agenda while remaining committed to our longer-term transformation strategies.
This cost outperformance drove approximately $0.04 to $0.05 of upside versus our expectations offset by approximately $0.02 of volume weakness in Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar.
Moreover our businesses were more successful in passing through cost inflation in a volatile environment than we had expected adding an additional $0.03 of earnings.
A stronger-than-expected top and bottom line performance against tough comps at WhiteWave-Alpro drove the remainder of the upside to our expectations.
Let's now look at each business unit in greater detail starting with Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar.
The external environment for our Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar business remains challenging but we did see improvement in Q1.
On the whole retail pricing for private label milk improved in the quarter as retailers backed away from their deep discount strategy.
This reduced the price gap between private label and our regional brands and led our brands to outperform private label during the quarter.
Retail private label pricing improved a bit in both January and February before taking a step back in March as retailers were slow to reflect the $0.20 per gallon month-over-month increase in raw milk cost at retail.
However we believe the overall trend in retail pricing is up.
In addition to improving retail pricing wholesale pricing on private label milk appears to have stabilized albeit at historically low levels.
While the news on the pricing front feels better volume continues to be a concern.
Industry-wide fresh milk volumes were down an estimated 1.2% in the first quarter consistent with recent trends.
Our fluid milk sales volumes underperformed the industry declining 2.4% in the quarter as our channel mix and certain customers underperformed the broader category.
Soft industry volumes appear to be driven by a number of factors including weak employment and wages among lower income consumers declining birth rates and a weak cereal category which drives roughly 30% of milk use.
Cereal category volumes in measure channels were down approximately 4.5% in the quarter.
To address our volume weakness we've selectively targeted and won new pieces of business.
While some of this business came online toward the end of the first quarter the majority of the volume will come into our system in Q2.
We expect this new volume to help partially offset our recent volume trends.
Outside of fluid milk the other dairy categories we participate in are also weak.
This combined with the sale of our Mountain High Yogurt business led to a 3.8% decline in total volume for FDD-Morningstar which deleverages our manufacturing and distribution assets and creates a continuing challenge for our business.
Soft volumes across FDD-Morningstar are our biggest concern for the balance of the year.
Commodity prices also post a challenge in Q1.
The Class I Mover averaged $16.44 per hundredweight down 3% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
Within the quarter however the Class I price rose sharply in March bringing with it all of the challenges rapid dairy inflation creates for our profit algorithm.
The Class II Butterfat price averaged $2.21 per pound for the quarter as a whole up 2% sequentially and 49% year-over-year.
Butterfat prices surged higher in January from December's relatively low levels significantly challenging Q1 profitability on a portfolio of butterfat-rich Class II products.
Other commodity prices across the business have also risen substantially.
Diesel fuel averaged $3.62 a gallon in Q1 up 15% sequentially and 27% year-over-year.
HDPE resin prices were 6% higher sequentially and 4% higher year-over-year.
Despite these challenges our Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar leadership teams manage the business to bottom line results well above plan and a level of gross profit effectively flat to year ago.
Accelerated cost savings and effective pricing to cover input inflation helped deliver gross profits that declined only 1% or $3 million in the year ago period to $569 million.
This is a significant improvement from our recent gross margin performance despite difficult volume price and inflation trends.
The difficult conditions we have endured in 2010 and that continued to confront us in early 2011 have led us to revisit our cost agenda in an effort to make more progress faster.
These actions are critical to driving earnings performance this year.
During the first quarter we continued to drive costs across our business at an accelerated rate.
In the quarter we closed a dairy processing facility in the Southeast helping to offset the deleveraging effect of soft volumes.
We expect additional closures over the balance of the year.
We eliminated 600 positions across all areas of the business including manufacturing distribution and G&amp;A.
Our distribution teams eliminated 28 additional routes in the first quarter with more to come and we continue to drive up manufacturing costs through plant simplification and continuous improvement projects.
During the quarter we also scrubbed SG&amp;A across the company in an effort to focus the business on delivering results in this challenging environment and to drive further SG&amp;A reductions.
The results of this effort are being rolled out in Q2 and we expect to at least double our original target of $30 million to $60 million in run rate savings by year end 2011.
We have solid momentum behind our cost reduction initiatives and we will continue to push this agenda over the balance of the year to help deliver our financial performance targets.
So all in all strong progress against cost reduction initiatives and solid pass through of rising costs was offset by broad-based volume weakness to result in segment operating profit of $111 million for Q1.
These results were 12% below year ago levels but just 3% below the seasonally stronger Q4.
We are therefore guardedly optimistic that FDD-Morningstar is stabilizing and poised to begin to grow earnings in the back half of 2011.
Turning to the WhiteWave-Alpro side of the business first quarter results reflect continued strong momentum across this segment with solid sales growth across all key product lines.
The first quarter was the fifth consecutive quarter of positive growth across all of our brands.
In total first quarter net sales grew 7% over the prior year to $507 million.
All of our WhiteWave-Alpro brands posted solid results for the quarter.
Sales in our WhiteWave Creamers business which includes International Delight and Land O'Lakes increased mid-single digits in the quarter.
As expected growth in the Creamers business slowed a bit in Q1 reflecting a shift in the timing of Easter to the second quarter and a price increase to offset inflation.
Horizon Organic Milk growth was especially strong this quarter with net sales up just over 20%.
Core product strength innovation in products and packaging and solid marketing growth continued market share expansion for the brand.
Silk net sales grew in the mid-single digits during the quarter driven by the continued strong performance of Silk PureAlmond and the rollout of Silk Coconut.
We are the market leader across a greatly expanded plant-based beverages category.
This redefinition of the addressable market has given us a much larger playing field to grow and innovate under the Silk brand.
Alpro net sales increased in the mid-single digits on a constant currency basis as well as after currency translation.
For the segment strong top line volume performance tight cost control and effective pricing to cover inflation was offset somewhat by higher distribution costs driven by fuel costs and resupply related to production capacity constraints.
Despite a difficult calendar with the shift of Easter to Q2 segment operating income grew 8% of WhiteWave-Alpro to $48 million.
With that review of the business units I'll now turn the call over to Shaun to discuss corporate items.
Shaun? Thanks Gregg.
Good morning everyone.
I'll take a few minutes now to walk through the consolidated financial performance for the quarter from a P&amp;L cash flow and net debt perspective.
Starting with the P&amp;L we see consolidated gross profit of $750 million driven by essentially flat Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar growth profit and 3% growth in WhiteWave-Alpro.
This results in a slight increase from the year ago quarter on an absolute dollar basis however on a per gallon basis this represents a 4% increase from a year ago despite increased commodity costs that Gregg spoke of earlier.
Moving down the P&amp;L total distribution expense increased $14 million or 4% over the year ago period driven principally by higher fuel costs at Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar and increased resupply and shipping costs at WhiteWave-Alpro due to continued tight capacity.
Selling and marketing costs in the quarter were 1% lower on a year-over-year basis due primarily to lower overall advertising expense.
Conversely G&amp;A costs were 4% higher with the increase entirely attributable to increases in our incentive compensation that we discussed on our last earnings call.
SG&amp;A costs are an important area of focus for us this year particularly at FDD-Morningstar and at the corporate level.
Last quarter we set a goal to exit the year with a base SG&amp;A run rate that was $30 million below 2010 levels.
We now expect to at least double that target.
In the first quarter total SG&amp;A costs increased 2% to $288 million.
However SG&amp;A and FDD-Morningstar and corporate excluding advertising and incentive compensation expense was $20 million below fourth quarter levels and roughly on par with the first quarter of 2010.
In addition we took meaningful actions to reduce these costs early in Q2 including the elimination of approximately 140 positions across SG&amp;A.
We expect these actions to help drive our savings run rate going forward.
Below the operating income line interest expense increased $7 million or 12% from the year ago period.
The increase is the result of higher average interest rates related to the amendment and extension of our senior credit facility and the note issuance completed in 2010.
The impact of these items was partially offset by lower than average debt balances.
For the full year we expect interest expense to be between $255 million and $260 million.
Net income of $25 million resulted in first quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.14.
Turning now to the cash flow and the balance sheet net cash from continuing operations for the quarter was $37 million with $40 million of capital expenditures this resulted in effectively zero-free cash flow for the quarter.
Operating cash flows were lower than average in the quarter due to reduced net income and higher inventory and receivable valuations driven primarily by the increase in commodity costs at the end of the quarter.
Despite this we expect operating free cash flow generation to pick up considerably over the balance of the year and expect full year free cash flow to be in excess of $200 million.
We did however continue to reduce our outstanding total debt in Q1.
Asset sales drove net debt reductions of $95 million in the quarter total outstanding net debt at quarter end to  $3.88 billion and our quarter end leverage ratio of funded debt to EBITDA as defined by our credit agreement was essentially flat with last quarter at 5.14x.
Debt reduction in the early part of the second quarter has already been strong due to the closing of the sales of our Private Label Yogurt business and the receive of a tax refund which together provided an additional $155 million of debt reduction.
With the additional proceeds we have fully repaid our 2012  tranche A term loan therefore our next 12 months of required debt paydown has been cut in half now totaling only $53 million.
As a reminder our maximum total leverage covenant is now 5.75x our net funded debt to EBITDA as calculated per our credit agreement.
This compares to our reported quarter and total leverage ratio of 5.14x.
However our leverage ratio would have been approximately 5x at quarter end if you pro-forma for the proceeds of the $155 million from our asset sale and tax refund received in April.
Our covenant remained at 5.75x until March of 2012 but then it stepped down to 5x times.
It remains at that level until the end of March 2013 before stepping down to 5.25x.
We expected our first quarter leverage ratio of 5.14x will represent our peak leverage going forward and we anticipate ending the year below 4.75x levered.
With that I will turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on the forward outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Thank you Shaun.
As you can see the WhiteWave-Alpro business continues to perform extremely well with solid top and bottom line momentum.
We expect the strong performance from WhiteWave-Alpro to continue throughout the balance of the year with operating income growth in the low to mid teens for the full year.
In our Dairy business challenges remain particularly related to soft volume performance of the business.
As we have previously discussed overall pricing was reset to lower level throughout last year and the overlaps remain challenging until we get to the back half of 2011.
Moreover the expense related to the restoration of incentive compensation to target levels will remain a headwind throughout this year.
In this environment we're focused on 3 fundamental things to improve the business.
First we've stepped up our agenda to reduce costs and improve profitability.
Second because input cost volatility is here to stay we're focused on pricing to offset inflation.
We're working hard to maintain and where necessary improve our pricing tools.
Third to offset volume softness at FDD-Morningstar we're pursuing new business.
Beginning in the second quarter we should begin to see new business volume mitigate some of the fluid milk volume weakness we previously experienced.
I'm encouraged by the progress we've made so far this year across these 3 fronts.
We hope to drive improving results through the balance of the year and enter 2012 with renewed momentum.
Looking ahead at the balance of the year many challenges remain but our ability to overcome them continues to improve.
All told we expect second quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of between $0.15 and $0.20.
Based on our performance in the first quarter as well as our expectations for the second we've raised our full year guidance to between $0.67 and $0.75 per adjusted diluted share.
In summary at Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar we're focused on the fundamentals.
Costs are coming out and we expect results to improve as we move through the year.
The pricing environment continues to stabilize and our team has done a solid job thus far in pricing to recover the inflationary pressures on the business.
Soft volumes remain but will be augmented by new business beginning in the second quarter.
At WhiteWave-Alpro the strong momentum we entered the year with continues and we expect a solid year of low to mid teens earnings growth.
All in all we're cautiously optimistic the business has stabilized and is beginning to turn around and our current view is that it will continue to improve and return to year-over-year growth by the back half of 2011.
With that I'd like to thank you for joining us today and ask the operator to open up the call for your questions.
Doris would you open the call please? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Quick question on your cost going through the year.
Would you say that your formulas are working well in terms of passing along the current diesel and resin costs? And how are you thinking about margins going forward? Well I think as evidenced by the Q1 outperformance we're doing a good job of passing along commodity inflation generally.
As it relates to our formulas we discussed this over the last several quarters but our formulas are best at passing along the milk commodity inflation.
They're a little less well-developed across the totality of our business at recovering other input cost inflation such as those around the fuel complex and packaging.
They're getting better but we still have work to do there which leaves us working more manually if you will from period to period to pass those costs along.
But so far it's going pretty well.
Like the marketplace is highly aware of the fact that these costs are going up.
So while it's a little bit less automatic than milk price inflation so far we're recovering it out on the marketplace.
In terms of margins we were much more off of a profit per gallon $0.01 profit per gallon as opposed to a percentage margin just because the commodity and its volatility makes it difficult to make meaningful comparisons from period to period as input costs change around a percentage margin.
We were in FDD-Morningstar I think a little bit north of 4% in terms of margin for this quarter.
Given the fact that milk prices have gone up so much it wouldn't surprise me to see that margin percentage come down.
But I think our increased guidance is evidence of the fact that we expect the $0.01 profit per gallon here to drift up at a slight incremental rate over the balance of the year as we continue to drive cost out of the business.
And one follow-up just could you give us a little more color about the new business that you're bringing on in the fiscal second [ph] quarter in terms of the size of that new business that's coming on? It's business really across our systems so it's customers in all channels.
But there's some larger pieces to the business of course the larger pieces in this business are in large format.
So we've picked up a couple of nice large-format accounts or expended business with existing accounts.
The net total of the new business coming on is in excess of 50 million gallons a year.
So it's a nice piece of business.
And we'll go next to Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
Just with the pricing mechanism obviously there's been a lot of talk about as you see the price gap close whether or not consumers will actually shift back to regional brands of milk and if so at what pace -- what are you seeing so far now that we actually are seeing the price gap close? Is that driving consumers back to the regional branded milk? Yes it is driving consumers back to the regionally branded milk.
So we saw revenue growth in our brands this quarter ahead of growth of private label.
So there is intra-category elasticity between brands and private label.
So as the price gaps have closed we've seen the brands accelerate and private label somewhat decelerate.
I think the long-term trend still is towards increased private label penetration in this category.
But we saw the brands take quite a beating over the last 5 quarters and I think for a few quarters you're going to see them rebound in terms of share relative to private label.
I would point out that it frankly is in everybody's interest to sell more brands.
So we make more money on our brands but our retail partners make more money on our brands as well on a profit per gallon basis.
So I think the industry is reverting to a more traditional view of what the profit pool ought to be in the category.
Everyone has suffered over the last 5 quarters by virtue of these retail price wars and the blow back effect on the processing segment.
And I think as we've indicated over the last few quarters it feels like it's abating and this is the first time you've actually seen that show up in our results.
If I could just ask one quick housekeeping item with the $19.49 million benefit listed in your other operating income as part of your operating cost is that just adjusting for the divestiture that is in the SG&amp;A lines? I just want to make sure that that's not a one-time...
Are you referring to the adjusted to GAAP? Yes.
There's 2 pieces of that.
One is the sale of Mountain High and I think it's partially offset by the closure of -- it's a closure of a facility up in Wisconsin.
So that's the 2 pieces that are in there.
That's sort of net to 0.
And we'll go next to a David Palmer with UBS.
I wanted to get a sense of the sequence of events and how you think about your guidance.
From the first quarter and I think -- correct me if I'm wrong about this but I think you mentioned that January and February were really the source of upsides for the quarter for the environment at least in terms of price and cost relationship a little bit better in those 2 months than March which was characterized as a bit of a setback.
I guess what I'm trying to figure out is you gave guidance for that quarter of $0.05 on February 16.
Could you maybe just walk us through how that played out and how you got the upside? Because obviously TheStreet was in somewhere in the midteens on earnings before that guidance and then you somehow beat but the beat seemed to happen from the first 2/3 of the quarter.
No the beat happened primarily in March.
If you go back and look at the transcript David maybe the line was fuzzy when we were going through the call but the beat was primarily driven by March.
We had a soft January and February quite a soft January and February.
Okay.
But there was no -- March was a better even though the pricing was a setback.
Was that what you said about March? At retail we had a $0.20 per gallon increase in the cost of milk for March -- from February to March not all of which was reflected in private label pricing at retail in the quarter was the comment.
It has nothing to do with our pricing.
It's what the retailer did on shelf with private label pricing in the month of March.
And what sort of -- and that retail pricing in March does that imply -- does that foreshadow any sort of implications for your margins in April May? Or what are the implications of that action in March in that retail? Well you probably didn't have the charts and the slides up but if you were to look at the private label margin over milk chart you will see that it rises for most of the first quarter but then steps back in March.
Just the commentary was really just -- and that's to illustrate that there is a lag in reflecting changing milk prices on shelf at retail.
But as we said in our prepared remarks we believe that the retail price trend on private label milk is up notwithstanding the step back in March due to the lag in passing through the $0.20 per gallon rise in the cost.
And we'll go next to Ahmit Sharma [ph] with BMO Capital Markets.
Just wanted to focus on the promotional activity that you are seeing at the retailer level.
You indicated in the presentation slides that the external environment is getting better.
Just wanted to get a little bit more color around that if you may please.
Well I think this is a continuation of a dialogue that we've had with you over the last few quarters really since the beginning of this heavy level of retail price discounting.
It was always our view that that was unsustainable.
It was our view that it was unsustainable because we didn't believe that deep discounting of milk at retail would drive incremental volume nor did we believe that over time as the entire market came down it would drive permanent changes in share among retailers.
I think that those conclusions have been borne out by the facts over the last 5 quarters and so you're seeing the recognition of that reality by retailers being reflected in their price strategy on shelf right? So an enormous amount of industry profit pool was destroyed by retailers that frankly were significantly below cost.
And as those heavy promotional activities have failed to generate share gains traffic and incremental profitability for the retailers driving them they've walked back to more traditional pricing at shelf.
And of course that's what you would expect economically rational people to do.
Great.
And as that environment improves do you expect some of those benefits? Or as discounting declines in the retail do you see some of that coming back to you as well? Or are retailers likely to keep all the benefit from lower promotional spending? Well the primary place where it's going to come back to us again is in the relative value proposition of our brands.
So we never deeply discounted our brands.
We could never have afforded to invest as much in the category as the retailers did because of course we don't get the benefit of whatever perceived increase in traffic they might have had across the balance of their store.
So we became significantly out of value in our brands during this period of deep promotion and the principal benefit is a return to more traditional brand price gaps with the restoration of a more logical private label pricing on shelf.
With respect to the procurement cost of retailers as a result of the heavy pressures helped fund deep discounts -- while I don't think the retailers will give that back quickly I do think that at some level pricing at the wholesale trade became in the heat of the battle quite low as well.
I think over time the industry is evidencing the fact that just like private label retails at very low levels are unsustainable private label wholesales are unsustainable too.
But that will be a much more slow restoration of the profit pool because there's going to be a negotiation between buyers and sellers as opposed to a unilateral decision on the part of retailers to take their price up at the shelf.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Just in terms of your feeds and volume trends so if you look at your results in the quarter the 2.4% I think was the total number.
Can you tell us how brands did versus the private label did within that mix? I don't have that number right of the top of my head but Barry can get it for you after the call.
Okay.
But I think you said branded did better than private label.
Yes.
Branded definitely did better than private label.
Both were down.
Branded was slightly better than private level.
Barry says both were down but brand is less than private level.
Okay.
And then just from an industry term perspective you called out some of the headwinds that has been pressuring the industry volume but if feels like some of those have been around for some time now whether it's employment trends the weak cereal category which actually is starting to get a little bit better the birth rate declines.
I'm just wondering if there's anything that has gotten incrementally worse that's causing the volume softness in recent quarters? And then as you think about from a consumer perspective as they feel now that the higher gas prices and inflation in other areas how do you think about volume sort of going forward regardless of some of these businesses that you've won in Q2? We call volume out in our prepared remarks as the biggest risk going forward.
And that is absolutely the case in our view.
It is the big risk going forward.
So as it relates to the category we had a slide in the slides that accompany the script that show category volumes over I think the last 5 quarters they're pretty consistently down across that period of time in this sort of 1% to 2% range.
And that feels right now like it's a trend that's going to continue certainly into Q2 and we'll see how it trends beyond that.
At some point in time you get the soft comps and volume should start to turn up here but I think that's probably not going to happen over the balance of this year.
So I think the most telling indicator for us that economic weakness and employment is the key issue driving soft volumes is the fact that we continue to see as in contrast to the historical norms we continue to see volume pick up heavily at the beginning of each month and then steadily erode through the month being particularly soft in the last week to 10 days of the month.
That just tells us that people are running out of money.
Now this is an all-family all-population product so the people at the bottom are still suffering very high rates of unemployment and weak income growth.
And I just think that's playing out in continued pressure on all purchases that those folks make and most of those purchases as you get lower and lower in the income strata are what you would describe in your Coverage Universe as staples.
So we're just seeing them soft and we're looking forward to an improving economy and employment picture but it's got to really create jobs and income down in the bottom 25% to 30% I think before soft volumes are really going to start to improve here.
So I think that's the key driver.
Us taking business within the category is just a share play right? So we're not driving category volumes there we're just trying to pickup share and maintain volume within our system in order not to suffer asset deleverage.
And the key to that is being competitively able to do so which means driving costs out of the business which is what we're doing every day.
So gas prices anything that takes money out of the average consumer's pocket that is a necessity forces them to make choices.
So you see consumers driving less right? They're cutting back on their miles driven in order to offset the price of gasoline and you see them buying less stuff in order to offset the higher prices of gasoline.
So inflation in stable purchases and items is going to be negative for this category.
So we're worried about volumes and it has a meaningful impact on our P&amp;L.
So we're doing a lot of good things here but volume is an issue we have to really keep our eye on.
So when you think about for the balance of the year what's embedded in your guidance? Because I think in fourth quarter at the end of fourth quarter you called out some of the considerations in the back half that would drive a stronger recovery.
And I think that is still the case but I'm just wondering how much of the risk in terms of volume are sort of embedded in that second half recovery outlook.
Our outlook for the balance of the year basically calls for holding our volume flat with where we were in the first half right? So if a category continues to decline that means we're going to have to start gaining this year the whole volume is flat.
So the volume is flat including the new business you're saying? Yes including the new business.
Okay.
So from down 2.5% in Q1 gets better with the new business but basically that implies that industry is down kind of 1% to 2% percent and then you win some new businesses that helps you in Q2 and beyond? Yes.
And there I'm really speaking about milk volumes.
We think our other volumes are going to continue to be very soft.
So total volume we expect to be down over the balance of the year probably in the 1% to 2% range.
And we'll go next to Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Can I ask about the Horizon Milk business? I think it was the third quarter of last year there were some comments about it getting I guess improving to about break even from being quite negative over the last few years.
Given the surge in volumes this time are we now seeing Horizon move into being much more profitable? And what would the ultimate margin be on that business do you think? Yes Horizon has returned to profitability.
So I think we've come to this extended period that was driven by significant excess supply beginning in '07 that led to discounting and then compounded by a soft economy for '08 and '09.
We've emerged from that and are again profitable in our Horizon Organic business.
Right now its profitability don't look a whole lot different than conventional milk.
So it's a significant drag on the overall profit margins of WhiteWave-Alpro but it's on an improving trend and we're pleased by that.
And we'll go next to Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Just on your fuel and resins exposure.
In the past you've had some longer-term contracts that kind of protected you at least over the short run and I thought from rising prices is that something that you continue to have some protection on? Or maybe you can talk about how that pricing mechanism works.
We're exposed to these markets broadly overtime because while you can hedge period-to-period you can't hedge over the long-term.
We have -- we came into the year with some hedges out through the first half on the fuel complex.
We have -- those have largely run out or largely will run out.
We have baked into our guidance a fuel price sort of in the $3.50 to $4 range.
If it's materially above that then we'll suffer some margin compression and we'll have to go get it out of the marketplace.
So we're coming in to a fuel price range here where we're having a price in the marketplace.
In our natural gas we're pretty well covered and we don't see a lot of volatility there.
Sugar and other input costs depending upon which part of the business we're in and how pricing works in that business we're either covered or naked depending upon again what the business model is in those businesses.
So we've clearly experienced some input cost inflation in the sweetener complex.
But we expected it to be higher through the year.
And we've been pricing for it.
In our WhiteWave businesses we are on crop-based inputs were more hedged than not given the nature of pricing in those commodities.
And in butter and cream and those sorts of things again as I said the business model is a period-to-period pass-through model.
So we pretty much move with the market.
Okay.
And you talked about the changes to your contracts I guess with the retailers.
I'm just wondering you're trying to get a little bit more market based it seems.
Is there anything specifically that you've changed in terms of how quickly you can realize kind of those cost increases? And maybe just a little color around that.
Well in the Fluid Milk business we're trying to move the business model more towards a transparent model where our customers understand the impact that input costs have on their costs and their pass through in a transparent way right? So the more we can move the business model towards a pass through of inputs whether they're milk or fuel or resin the better everybody is going to understand the feel about the dynamics in the marketplace and the more predictable our earnings are going to be.
So we're definitely trying to move the business model in that direction.
But we have tens of thousands of customers and it is a lot of work doing that.
So we're making some progress.
And I think you see that in somewhat improved predictability of our performance but we've got a long way to go.
And we'll go next to Robert Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> It's a simple question for you I'm sure people ask you on every call but I just wanted to hear what your current outlook is for the Class I Mover just for the rest of the year.
If that has changed from what you said in the past few months? Or if you're still in line.
We're pretty much in the same place we were last quarter.
We've experienced the run up that we predicted at the end of Q1.
So the prices have moved up to the $19 $20 range and we basically see them staying for the balance of the year.
Maybe a slight drift down towards the end of the year but we basically see them stand in this range.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then all the commentary that you have around pricing at retail it does sound -- I mean what you're potentially saying is that for the most part retailers have reached the bottom with respect to wholesale pricing.
Now if -- but is it safe to assume that I mean that outlook that commentary is also based upon the assumption that the Class I Mover remains at $19 to $20? Or I mean could we see in theory if the Class I were to go down to $17 that it I mean it could potentially in that scenario be a little bit more difficult to get the pricing that you're getting which in turn would hopefully help your volumes? Is that fair? Well again the way that we measure the retail marketplace is look at the spread over the cost of milk right? So if the price goes up or down on balance the retailer is going to pass that along.
The question is going to be do they pass it along 100% or something less than 100%? So if the price of milk goes up to $24 you can be pretty sure that the price of milk in the shelf is going to go up.
The question is is it going to go up to roughly $0.40 that that would imply? Or is it going to go up some lesser amount as retailers try and hit a particular price point in a rising price environment? If the price of milk comes down again $3 or roughly $0.30 a gallon you'll see it come down at shelf.
I wouldn't expect in this environment to see it go down more than the cost of milk.
And in fact I would expect to see that the margin over milk perhaps expand a little bit in that environment.
So the price is going to get pass through by and large.
If the price of milk comes down and we get better price points at retail I think we will see some improvement in the volume.
But over time the trend is towards retailers trying to reestablish their gross margins at retail.
LLC</strong> Right.
So I mean essentially though if the price of milk were to come down some I mean it's not necessarily negative for you because you think that...
No it's positive for us.
No question about it.
It's positive for us.
LLC</strong> Yes I mean and especially what's happened over the past year right? I mean the retailers on average have experienced what it means to see lower pricings.
So if they can increase the pricing and you make a little bit more money on wholesale you don't think that it should revert back to being worse.
It should really hopefully get better even if the price of milk comes down.
I would think so.
I mean if the price of milk goes down to $9 again you'll see really hot retail prices and it could get a little crazy.
But I don't see any circumstance other than when if that happens.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And we go next to Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask you 2 questions.
The first one would be as we're watching kind of branded milk get better versus private label milk is the price gather which the consumer goes back to branded milk any lower than it used to be? So are you seeing kind of those same sort of consumer trends that you give it a little more flexibility or kind of where branded milk may be later in the year? I don't think we can call it with that level of precision yet.
What is clear is smaller price gaps lead to better performance on the part of brands.
To disaggregate the price gap issue versus the overall level of price because the Class I Mover has moved up meaningfully is just really go out and do.
So I wish I could answer your question but I'm not sure that I can.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I'm just curious if there's any indication the consumer or if there's going -- is the consumer in better shape less than employment is that better? That's all I'm trying to get out there.
My other question then would be on the channel mix.
You've started out a couple of quarters maybe a few quarters now in terms of your new product or new account wins is that helping you get into some of these channels that are growing and taking share be it dollar stores or that kind of thing? Well we're definitely penetrating some of the growing channels more than we have in the past.
So we've got a good dollar channel business we have a good drug and C-store channel business.
We have a food service business that remains pretty soft.
That is an issue with respect to volumes.
And I think as you see gas prices going up you're starting to see reflected in the reports out of certain parts of the out-of-home dining industry some softness.
So that's a channel issue that we have been fighting to some degree.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then I just want to be clear on the cost savings and my final question so I read that you indicated that -- or I guess from an SG&amp;A standpoint I just want to be clear on the comment I think it was Shaun made about $20 million relatively where you were a year ago in SG&amp;A is that right in the quarter? $20 million versus Q4 if you take out the advertising and the incentive accruals.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your...
The point of that Chris is that the underlying rate of spend on SG&amp;A is going down.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
And that's in-line with the $60 million you have for the year then? Correct $60 million is run rate for the year exiting Q4.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's great.
And we'll go next to the Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Gregg it's getting close to $15 a share.
Does that mean the beard comes off? I still have it on Eric.
If it keeps working maybe we'll push the price target higher.
I hope that doesn't go against my questions.
There's a couple of things and it's all seriousness there's a couple of things that don't make sense to me.
Like on the one hand you're calling out cold cereal as a factor in the consumption of milk.
And yet a week ago we heard from Kellogg number one player in cereal who probably has pretty good visibility into that business and they said the category is actually looking pretty good.
So that doesn't jive.
And then second we were talking about the volume in the category being down because the consumer is so weak in part.
And then at the same time we're saying that branded is doing better even though the dollar difference obviously still exists.
It may be narrower but it's still a greater price outlay.
So there's a couple of things here that just seemed to me kind of go against one another.
Can you kind of help me with those? Sure as to the cereal comment and Kellogg's comment I would just say our comments on the cereal category is where the comment about Q1 volume softness and it's historical fact based comment.
IRI Cereal was down 4.5% in volume right? And that was Q1 look at the business.
So I didn't listen to the Kellogg call maybe I need to start doing that going forward but they may see the category improving and I certainly hope that it does.
And I hope that their outlook for the category is positive in terms of volume as opposed to price and margin.
But Q1 it was a soft category.
So I don't know if that is an accurate explanation but it's my explanation at this point in time to your question.
In terms of the brand private label price spread we've seen this dichotomy for an extended number of quarters now.
So our $8 milk at Horizon Organic was up in volume close to 20% in Q1 right? But Tiffany's is doing great and the high-end department stores are doing well.
So people at the top who are not in that bottom half or bottom third of the income demographic are feeling quite good about their circumstances right? Unemployment rates are very low incomes are rock-solid their portfolios are up 100% off the bottom and they're back to buying the brands and the products that they buy to make their lives richer and better.
And that extends in a certain part of the demographic to our regional milk brands as well right? But if you look at where the totality of our volume is sold it's to everybody in the population.
And all you have to do is flip back within the last 2 or 3 weeks and read Mike Duke's commentary about the Wal-Mart customer and the rate at which they're struggling with difficult employment conditions and inflation and you'll see that folks who are in that income demographic are still trimming their sails.
So that's the best explanation I can give you for the divergence between our branded portfolio's performance whether it's WhiteWave or whether it's our regional brands and the overall category's performance.
Just a quick follow-up on the fact that Easter is shifting and you've highlighted that how much does that kind of help the second quarter? I think it helps it somewhat in certain parts of our WhiteWave portfolio it definitely helps.
So we've got the creamer and half-and-half part of our WhiteWave business respond well to holidays and to Easter.
And I don't think you'll see a huge change in traditional milk consumption based upon where Easter falls.
Although we do get a bit of an Easter bump but if on the basic milk business it's not a tremendous bump.
And we'll go next to Jonathan Feeney with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Gregg I wanted to dig into -- it was interesting commentary that you're seeking to hold volumes flat and protect sharing potentially down market.
You've done some encouraging things it seems.
I'm just going off the website and a couple of announcements you've made in terms of divesting plants closing down plants clearly that's there in the reduced SG&amp;A and do you reach a point where you can afford to lose your lower profit customers when you take out these costs and take out this capacity? That's what I'm wondering and I have a follow-up to that.
John look this is a fixed cost oriented business in the FDD-Morningstar network.
There's a lot of excess capacity in the industry.
Taking capacity out of our system against fixed volumes has a lot of positive benefits.
So you're going to see us continue to drive capacity out of our network.
But the real benefits are going to come against leveraging our existing or even more volume against that reduced set of fixed cost and that's what you're starting to see play out I think in our profit algorithm.
And I hope you'll continue to see it play out more over the balance of the year.
So we need to get the margin right on the business that we have in our system.
We're working hard on that.
And then we need to get the costs right and as low as possible and then we need to drive as much volume across that at appropriate margins as we can.
And so that's sort of the simultaneous equation that we're trying to solve here.
We're not looking to push any volume out of our system but we are looking to earn an economical return on the volume that we serve.
So part of that is price part of it is cost and we're driving against all those levers.
I guess that's the best explanation I can give you.
Just one question that will stretch the definition of a follow-up because it has [indiscernible] my first question.
It doesn't meet the definition at all.
The free cash flow guidance when you look at the trajectory of milk prices I know that tends to drive inventories up.
It did it in the quarter and that hurt your free cash flow realization.
You're guiding to $100 million it looks like ahead of what guided net income is over the remainder of this year.
Is that dependent on the declining milk cost forecast and then will positive free cash flow be possible in Q2 with this trajectory in fluid dairy? You mentioned it already but obviously the big part of that is the income coming up so affect about probably half of that.
We do see some slight improvement in working capital for the rest of the year and another thing to keep in mind there is we talked about the tax refund that came through in April so that's a big number to step up in the second quarter as well.
And we'll go next to John Baumgartner with Telsey Advisory Group.
I guess first off thinking about the excess cream sales in the quarter how meaningful of a benefit was that this time around in Q1 given where multiples were in the butterfat price? The excess cream sales are I would say slightly ahead of historical norms right now.
Not unusually so but we have a high butter price and we have the skim price in control.
So right now we're pretty much in the middle of the fairway in terms of excess cream sales.
So they're certainly not hurting us.
And then Gregg just to follow up.
Thinking about the organic milk category.
It looks like just the overall category growth rate.
I guess you're kind of back to levels of the middle of the decade given the higher base now has there been a change in how retailers are managing the category as far as advertising or heavily in circulars? Is it being used as more of a traffic driver for a higher end consumer? What do you attribute this new 20% plus growth in category to right now? I attribute it to the fact that the fundamental organic proposition is a really powerful one and we still have among the appropriate income demographic very low rates of household penetration.
So there's lots opportunity for this category to grow.
The proposition for families with children is a compelling proposition.
And you now have a category that is more orderly.
So you've had a great winnowing of me-too brands in the category.
The category really now is driven by Horizon Organic and private label Horizon having more than a 40% share in this category.
We're advertising the benefits of the proposition more heavily than we have historically and we're innovating in the category.
And so we think we're on a long-term secular trend of sort of 10-plus percent volume growth in this category.
And that will be a fantastic algorithm for us if it plays out over time because you can manage supply against those kinds of growth rates.
If the growth rates stay close to 20% the category will go through throws of imbalance of supply and demand again.
So we see the category sort of coming back down into that low teens area and that's a good thing.
And our final question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
So I just wanted to follow-up on one of the comments you made about structurally lower margins in private label milk.
I think most analysts have modeled this business on a percentage basis.
Can you help us understand what you think the new normal for FDD margins is? And perhaps how far away you are from getting to that new normal given all the good work you're doing on the cost cutting side? Yes I don't want to get in the business of predicting this with too much precision.
But if you go back into the 2005 to 2008 period you would've found operating income per gallon in the sort of $0.16 to $0.20 range depending upon what was happening with the commodity and this volatility and what was happening competitively.
As we came through the back half of 2000 -- when we came into 2009 with this rapid drop of all the commodity inputs we had you saw operating income per gallon in Q1 move up into the mid 20s right? Clearly an unsustainable level.
And it drifted back down into sort of that high teens by the end of 2009.
What happened in 2010 though with all of the issues that we've discussed endlessly on these calls is you saw that operating income per gallon moved down into the low teens.
What you're seeing now is it starts to tick back up a little bit.
So I would expect that over the balance of this year we would move back into the territory of the mid-teens sort of operating income margins here.
Beyond that it's going to be driven north I believe by cost reductions.
I do think that ultimately we can end back up in the traditional range of profitability that we had prior to the 2009 period though.
I do believe we can get there over time.
One last one in terms of the comments you've made overall about the category the one thing that I'm a bit confused about is with volumes declining for the overall industry why would we expect gross margins at the wholesale level to improve? So if I'm a processor of milk and I see my volumes coming down in desperation I'm going try it to win as much business as I can.
It points to a more competitive environment than anything else.
So can you help me understand that aspect? I mean I understand that you are cutting costs in your company ahead of probably others.
But it just doesn't jive with volumes coming down relative to gross margins at the wholesale level improving for the industry.
Yes you're hitting on a key challenge here and that's why we say volumes remain our biggest concern for the balance of the year and frankly going forward.
So the category for the last 5 quarters volumes come down 1% to 1.5% if you look at the category as a whole.
So we clearly are taking capacity out of our system ahead of the volume decline.
You're seeing capacity come out of the rest of the system as well.
So slowly you're seeing plant closures across the plant network.
So I would say that on balance in that environment with plants coming out you're probably maintaining capacity utilization about where you were.
But clearly soft volumes if they persist over time will be downward pressure on pricing and margin.
I think the counterbalance to that is as we come through 2009 I think we sort of tested the bottom of what margins can get to.
And we've seen the industry on the processing side.
Basically it appears to me to conclude that they can't sustain prices at those levels.
So you'd rather surrender volume than surrender more price.
And I think we're sort of forming that kind of bottom in the industry.
Thank you all for joining us on the call.
We appreciate it and we look forward to the next time we have to speak to you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Laura and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
We issued an earnings release this morning which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods' website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
The earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided today are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude the expenses related to: facility closings and reorganizations; expenses related to litigation matters; expenses related to closed and expected-to-close acquisitions; divestitures; and other non-recurring items in order to enable you to make a meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods.
The earnings release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated results along with reconciliations between GAAP and adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among other disclosures of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding our branding initiatives expected cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and in today's press release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Engles our Chairman and CEO; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off by providing a general review of results walking through the performance of the operating units and current business trends.
Following Gregg Shaun will offer additional comments on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for some additional commentary on the forward outlook and other closing comments.
We will then open the call for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
I understand that we have this morning's announcement just a bit of a hirsute environment for food analysts and investors this morning so we certainly appreciate you're all making the time to be on the call with us this morning.
In many ways the second quarter of 2011 is a continuation of the trends that we've seen over the last several quarters.
WhiteWave-Alpro again posted strong results and Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar continued to make progress towards profit stability against the backdrop of weak industry volumes.
We continued to execute our plan to drive costs out of the business and progress in this area has been solid.
Overall the quarter came in largely as expected with consolidated adjusted operating income of $114 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.18.
Cash flow was solid and net debt and leverage continued to decline as expected.
Now let's look at each of the business segments in greater detail starting with Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar.
Improving trends in the retail price environment for our Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar business that began in the first quarter continued in Q2.
Large-format retailers by and large maintained the pricing gains they've made in gallon-sized milk and continued to back away from their deep discount strategy.
Retail prices increased -- increases generally met or outpaced rising raw milk costs and the average industry margin over milk was fairly consistent with first quarter levels.
While some of our regional brands remain well out of value on average rising private label pricing has reduced the retail price gap between private label and our regional brands.
Our average price gap was nearly 30% in the year-ago quarter but today is 20% on a blended basis across all original milk brands.
These reduced gaps are helping to improve the relative performance of our brands in the category.
On a like-for-like basis which excludes the impact of new and lost business regional brand volumes again outperformed private label in the quarter.
At the wholesale level private label milk pricing generally continued to stabilize albeit at historically low levels.
However given continued volume weakness across the industry which deleverages both competitor processing facilities and our own we once again experienced pockets of competitive pressure in the quarter.
With retail pricing that continues to stabilize and cost reductions on track volume remains our largest concern.
The continuing struggles of consumers at the lower end of the economic spectrum have been widely reported this earnings season.
I can echo those comments as we see a clear evidence of continued weakness among this demographic across virtually all categories in our conventional dairy business.
With widespread food and energy inflation stressing consumer pocketbooks many Americans are finding areas to cut back even in consumer staples like dairy.
We see the impact of this belt-tightening manifested in declining inter-month volumes that reflect the transfer payment and pay cycle.
It is also apparent in the performance of customers that derive larger portions of their business from this consumer segment.
The fluid milk category has been on a multi-decade trend of flat to slightly declining volumes.
This is the result of declining per capita consumption somewhat offset by population growth.
As a result of the recession and rising inflation however we are now 2 years into accelerated category declines in fluid milk.
Industrywide fluid milk volumes are down 1.9% in the quarter a steepening decline from prior periods and the worst quarterly decline since 2007.
This is on top of the year-ago quarter that was down 1.5% for the industry.
With the economy continuing to struggle and dairy commodity prices expected to remain high we have little confidence that these volume declines will abate anytime soon.
This makes our efforts to drive out costs and add new business all the more important.
It also means that a disappointingly high level of our cost saves are being offset by the inevitable fixed cost deleverage we experienced as volume declines.
We offset some of the category weakness in the second quarter through the addition of new business.
As a result we gained share and outperformed the industry on a volume basis in the quarter.
Unfortunately this quarter's sharp erosion in category volumes nonetheless led our milk volumes to decline just over 1% despite our share gains.
Outside of fluid milk most of the other dairy categories we participate in were also weak.
Notably the ice cream category was down nearly 5% on a volume basis at retail roughly consistent with our own volume decline.
Our food service ice cream mix business was also soft in the quarter.
Other important categories including sour cream and cottage cheese were weak.
When combined with the sale of our Yogurt business this led to a Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar volume decline of 4% in the quarter.
Soft volumes across FDD-Morningstar remains our biggest concern over the back half of the year.
Commodity inflation also continued to post challenges to the business in Q2.
The Class I Mover averaged $19.83 per hundredweight for the quarter representing a 21% sequential increase from Q1.
The Class I price increased each month during the quarter.
Our team did a solid job dealing with these rising cost to protect gross margins.
What we failed to do however is to fully recover the second quarter's higher fuel and energy prices which led to higher distribution cost and lower operating income in the quarter.
The Class I Mover has continued to rise in both July and August and is now approaching 2007's all-time high.
These higher prices when reflected at retail will put additional downward pressure on category volumes.
Looking ahead we expect milk prices to rise through September and then flatten or slightly decline in Q4.
Overall however as long as the dollar remains weak which supports the continued export of dairy commodities we expect prices to remain near historical highs across the dairy complex.
In addition to dairy inputs packaging materials and energy also remained significantly inflationary on a year-over-year basis creating additional challenges for both our business and the industry.
In spite of the steep input inflation and soft volumes FDD-Morningstar gross profit performance in the quarter was down only 1%.
Effective pricing for dairy inputs and continued reduction in conversion costs drove $578 million of segment gross profit for the quarter.
In keeping with our stated priority to be the differentiated low-cost producer we continued to drive costs out of the business in Q2.
We have announced the closure of 2 production facilities and more than a dozen distribution branches so far this year.
This helps offset soft volumes and drives efficiency through higher asset utilization.
We have also taken action to significantly reduce headcount across the business.
Total company headcount today is 6% below year-ago levels and down over 600 positions in this calendar year.
We also continued to drive cost out of distribution which has used 6% fewer gallons of diesel fuel through the first half of this year compared to 2010.
Our procurement and continuous improvement efforts continue to pay dividends to the business.
We also made progress toward our goal of reducing our SG&amp;A run rate by $60 million by year end.
In Q2 these structural savings helped offset general category weakness but were more than offset by surging fuel energy and input costs.
Second quarter operating profit for the segment was $116 million.
These results were 21% below year-ago level but 4% above first quarter results.
We continue to see FDD-Morningstar stabilize.
But unless category volume improves we will continue to see a disappointing percentage of our productivity devoted to offsetting fixed cost deleverage as opposed to benefiting the bottom line.
Let's now turn to our other operating segment WhiteWave-Alpro which once again delivered strong top and bottom line growth.
Top line growth is being driven by strong category trends with the creamers plant-based beverages and organic milk categories all continuing to expand.
In total second quarter net sales grew 12% over the prior year to $514 million.
The second quarter marks the sixth consecutive quarter that all of our key product segments have posted positive growth driven by solid category trends and innovation across the product line.
For the quarter sales in our creamers business which includes International Delight and Land O'Lakes increased mid-teens.
Horizon Organic milk continued to build on its recent strong growth with net sales also increasing mid-teens in the second quarter on strong category dynamics and innovation-driven product differentiation.
Silk net sales grew in the mid-single-digits during the quarter with Silk PureAlmond and the rollout of Silk PureCoconut continue to bring new customers into the plant-based beverage category.
Consumers are responding favorably to these better-for-you offerings.
Alpro net sales increased low-single-digits on a constant-currency basis and mid-teens on a reported basis.
Alpro sales growth has slowed slightly as the economic troubles across Southern Europe have impacted sales growth rate.
The continuation of solid volume trends operating efficiencies and effective pricing to cover inflation was once again somewhat offset by increased distribution costs at WhiteWave.
As we've said earlier WhiteWave's production capacity issues are being addressed by investment in new manufacturing facility in Dallas Texas the first phase of which should begin production in late 2011.
Despite this headwind total segment operating income grew 14% at WhiteWave-Alpro to $47 million.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Shaun for some additional commentary on the financials.
Shaun? Thanks Gregg.
Good morning everyone.
I'll take a few minutes now to walk through the consolidated financial performance in the quarter from a P&amp;L cash flow and debt perspective.
Starting with the P&amp;L consolidated gross profit was $760 million $8 million above the year-ago quarter.
Essentially flat Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar gross profit and 8% growth at WhiteWave-Alpro combined to drive the result.
On a per gallon basis this represents a 5% increase in consolidated gross profit from a year ago highlighting effective cost control and improved pricing despite continued volume softness.
Within operating expenses distribution expense stands out as a notable headwind in the quarter.
In aggregate distribution expense was $22 million or 6% above year-ago levels as higher fuel costs and increased expense at WhiteWave driven by capacity constraints more than offset progress in our cost reduction initiatives in this area.
Total SG&amp;A cost increased 2% in the quarter primarily due to higher incentive compensation expense.
As we discussed last quarter an important metric we are using to internally gauge our progress with respect to our SG&amp;A cost savings initiatives is SG&amp;A expense minus incentive compensation and advertising expense.
Using this metric we are $8 million below year-ago levels and making strong progress against our goal to reduce our run rate by $60 million by year end.
In fact through Q2 our annualized run rate is already over $30 million below our year-ago levels.
This strong momentum gives us a high level of confidence in achieving our goal.
Interest expense increased $15 million from the year-ago period.
The increase is the result of higher average interest rates partially offset by lower average debt balances.
For the full year we continue to expect interest expense to be between $255 million and $260 million.
Net income of $32 million resulted in second quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.18.
Turning now to the cash flow and balance sheet.
Net cash from continuing operations through the first 6 months of the year was $180 million.
Year-to-date free cash flow is $61 million which includes capital expenditures of $119 million.
From a working capital standpoint our net working capital investment was essentially flat for the quarter despite the significant increase in dairy commodities that Gregg mentioned.
Even with these significant headwinds we've been able to minimize working capital investment and have delivered a 1.2-day improvement in our cash conversion cycle as compared to Q2 of last year.
In addition cash available for debt reduction was augmented by the receipt of $62 million tax refund as well as the sale of 2 yogurt businesses.
This was partially offset by the payment of $30 million for the settlement of the Vermont litigation.
The net of all this was a $262 million reduction in our debt and brings our total outstanding net debt at quarter end to $3.7 billion.
Our quarter-end leverage ratio of funded debt-to-EBITDA as defined by our credit agreements declined to 4.95x versus 5.14x last quarter.
We continue to expect to end the year below 4.75x after possibly stepping up modestly in Q3.
With this we expect to end the year more than a full turn below our maximum covenant of 5.75x.
I should note that with respect to the Tennessee litigation we took a pretax charge of $131 million in the second quarter.
This charge is added back for covenant compliance purposes under our credit agreement.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Gregg for some commentary on the forward outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Thank you Shaun.
As we've said at a high level many of the trends that we've discussed in previous quarters continued.
WhiteWave-Alpro continues to perform well with solid sales growth across the top line and operating leverage resulting in bottom line momentum.
We continue to expect full year segment operating income to grow in the low- to mid-teens at WhiteWave-Alpro.
At Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar costs continue to come out of the business across the supply chain as well as in core SG&amp;A.
Our teams are working to deal effectively with rising commodity costs.
Consistent with our previous comments our biggest concern over the balance of the year continues to be volume weakness across conventional dairy categories which has worsened in recent periods.
Due to the heavy fixed-cost nature of our business relatively small changes in volume drive meaningful lot changes in bottom line performance.
We believe a recovery in volumes will not happen until the employment and picture improves particularly among the less affluent who continue to struggle.
In the interim our best course of action is to continue to drive structural costs out of the business to offset the deleveraging effects of soft volumes.
Assuming relative price stability the rate at which our cost saves fall to the bottom line will in large measure be driven by the rate of volume declines in the category.
Given current category performance we expect the new business we added in Q2 a more stable pricing environment and our cost reduction initiatives to drive continued stabilization into the third and fourth quarter with normal seasonality driving stronger performance in Q4.
This combined with expectations for continued solid growth from WhiteWave and Alpro and the accumulating benefit of our SG&amp;A cost reduction initiatives should result in earnings consistent with to a bit above 2010 levels in the third quarter.
We expect to return to year-over-year adjusted earnings per share growth in Q4.
More specifically for the third quarter we expect dilutive -- adjusted diluted earnings of between $0.12 and $0.17 per share.
With this in mind we reaffirm our previous full year guidance of between $0.67 and $0.75 per adjusted diluted share.
Many aspects of our business are slowly improving.
Volume however continues to erode at a quickening pace.
Despite this volume softness we are confident that we are focused on the right areas to drive shareholder returns going forward.
With that I'd like to thank you for joining us on the call today and ask the operator to open the call for your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Two quick -- 2 questions.
First of all the Class I outlook the way that you see it shaping up to this year might we see some sort of moderation in the fourth quarter? And then as a link to that is it possible that we might see an overhaul of the way that Class I milk price is stacked as part of the fondue in 2012 that might reduce volatility? That's the first question on Class I milk.
And then secondly what are you seeing in the retailing environment? It seems to me that the issue now is more the consumers having to deal with these very high prices.
But are you getting much pushback from the retailers if you pass the milk prices through? Okay let's -- let me take those -- I'll try and take those in order and if I get up-track you can reel me back in.
As to the milk price expectations going forward increasingly Alexia really starting in 2007 our milk prices have begun to be set more by what's happening in the global market for dairy commodities than the domestic supply and demand balance in the United States which was the traditional driver of milk price up until that point in time.
What we have seen over the last 2 quarters at least is international prices driven partly by the supply-demand balance globally and partly by the decline in the value of the currency pulling these milk prices consistently higher towards these very high historically high levels.
If you look out into the international market place and the forward international market place over the balance of the year you could convince yourself that you would see prices abate somewhat in the back half.
I think the real challenge that's emerging to that point of view today is what we're experiencing in terms of our U.S.
weather right now these very extreme temperatures and its effect on domestic supply.
So it's a little bit of a cloudy picture right now but in terms of what we can sort out of all of that noise we believe these milk prices are going to stay high through the back half of the year.
We'll be pleased if we get some abatement in Q4.
We've built a small amount of abatement into our outlook as we said in our prepared remarks but not a lot of abatement in those prepared remarks in our outlook.
As to passing milk prices along we've said this probably on every call that we've had going back for 15 years but we're pretty effective at passing along the price of milk to our big customers.
So most of these relationships are either formally or informally a formulaic relationship where the price of milk gets calculated as it's announced and passed on to -- into the marketplace certainly as it relates to private label products.
And when you look at our gross margin line performance this quarter you can see that we passed along the cost of milk because what's in that gross margin line is the cost of raw materials and conversion.
And so we recovered other than the normal friction that you have on the way up and on the way down.
So we are encountering the friction as a negative way on the way up.
We recovered the milk price increase.
Now there are nuances around that so our branded products we pay attention both to the underlying inflation in the raw commodity but also price points that these branded products hit at retail.
So although we start pushing up against the price point like $6 a gallon which we are in some markets.
We start to be more cautious about passing through all the raw milk commodity as it relates to our brands just because the negative implications of elasticity sometimes outweigh the cost recovery.
So that inevitably happens as we pass through certain price points on the way up.
At some point in time the prices get so high you have to take it anyway and you just move on but there's a little bit of a step function changes that relates to that.
And then on our up-and-down the street price list-oriented business there's not so much of a formulaic mechanism for passing price along it's governed a little bit more by the up-and-down of the street competitive dynamics in the marketplace.
But again just looking at broad measure at the gross profit line we recovered increasing milk prices here.
There's clearly in the volume declines a meaningful part of not only economic stress but also just elasticity in the marketplace.
If you go back to 2007 before the economic crisis when milk prices spiked to this level that's the quarters where we saw the highest percentage decline in the category ever at 2.1% in I believe in Q2 or Q3 of 2007.
And that's just a function of sticker shock at the shelf.
So there's a piece of that here too.
Milk prices are getting higher than they've ever been and consumers are naturally reacting to those very high prices as they confront it at the shelf.
Finally as to whether or not we're going to hit more or less volatility out of milk price reform I've been going to Washington and we've been going to Washington for almost 20 years now trying to argue for a more logical more transparent more manageable milk price environment and have yet to have anything that looks like success.
Because these farm programs and dairy they've been in place over 80 years have constituents that they benefit and constituents that they don't.
And moving this regulatory scheme confronts the hard political realities that you're going to be taking something away from somebody as you do so.
The budget pressures that exist today I think create a somewhat better opportunity to move these programs.
But frankly what I read coming out of Washington and the positions that the parties just taken out in this debate specifically around milk are not encouraging as it relates to significant reform of the system.
So what we really hope to do is avoid it getting worse in the first instance and there are proposals out there that would make it worse for us including supply management proposals which would enshrine I think going forward high prices.
So we're working the issue hard.
I don't think we should look at it as an opportunity to take a lot of volatility out of the system.
And our next question comes from the line of on Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to focus on the diesel fuel energy-related costs.
Did I get it right that they were $22 million negative in the quarter? Approximately yes.
A little less than that.
So going forward are those costs something that you expect to recover as you're able to pass them through in the back half? Or is that -- is it nonrecoverable going forward? I think it's -- I think over time it tends to be recoverable because it hits everybody's margin in the industry and it gets reflected in their profitability and they ultimately seek to recover it from the market.
It is less formulaic across the totality of the business than milk is.
It is increasingly becoming formulaic with larger customers because they understand the impact it has on your business but it is less so than milk.
So it takes longer to recover than milk price does.
So there's clearly a lagging effect changes in diesel fuel cost.
And that's something I want to know we have heard other food manufacturers say that they are spacing lagging price increases that they're not able to recover so I just wanted to distinct in the 2.
On the volume side I mean clearly weak volumes are deleveraging your fixed costs.
But I just wanted to get a sense of let's say your raw milk wholesale milk spread remains stable.
I mean we saw improvement from first quarter but let's say it remains stable how much of a volume in decline can be offset by the $100 million cost saving coming through next year? Or in other words how much volumes need to decline to completely offset the cost savings that are coming through? Well this -- like the analysis given in response to most of these questions on the call this won't be complete enough for you to get to the right answer but it's the best we can do in a short period of time.
If you look at it on average across all of our volume keeping in mind that we have significant differences between private label white milk and ice cream and all of our product line we have closed to $1 per gallon contribution margin across our product portfolio.
So the instantaneous cost if you will of declining volumes is you lose that $1 of contribution on average if your entire portfolio is contracting at the same rate.
And that's -- it's not all -- you can variabilize those -- that contribution margin and take fixed cost out over time but in the instantaneous case it's hard to do.
So if I'm only taking 950 gallons on a route instead of $1000 -- 1000 gallons the cost of the route is the same.
And my shipping in my plants because this is spread like peanut butter across the portfolio is the same on an instantaneous basis.
So that should help you sort of dimensionalize what the impacts of negative volume are.
It certainly does.
And my final question is on the branded premium I mean you indicated that the price gap have narrowed between private label and branded.
So the fact that your branded margins have declined is that just elasticity that you alluded to or is there more to it? Well I think what I said in response to Alexia's question is that as the certain of our most premiumly-priced brands we didn't necessarily push through all the price increases because of the price point at retail in Q2.
Our next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Just a quick question on where you think volumes are expected to go going forward.
And third quarter did you show us where you think kind of how volumes in FDD-Morningstar are expected to be? Well what I can tell you is what we've seen so far which is volumes continue on this pretty significant soft trend that we saw in the first half of the year.
So we're through effectively 1/3 of the quarter and volumes continued to be down sort of in the milk category in that kind of 1% to 2% range.
At retail volumes are quite a bit softer than that.
So if you go pull the IRI data on large-format retail they're down 3.5% 4% 4.5% 5%.
So volumes are incredibly soft are retail.
Now food service volumes [indiscernible] volumes tend to be a little stickier so less of a decline in those channels but at retail you can get at the numbers pretty easily.
And on the fourth quarter you're expecting a mitigation of the volume decline is that really reflecting the fact that you're thinking you could have maybe some better pricing on the shelf because of the forward milk curve? Or do you...
No.
Actually I don't think in Q4 we are expecting a mitigation of the volume decline.
I don't think we said that.
Okay.
So it's still going to be soft in the fourth quarter? Yes.
It's going to be soft because these prices are still going to be in all likelihood over $20 on the Class I Mover.
Okay.
And so in the third quarter is third quarter earnings are coming in in line with what you were thinking of or slightly lower? Because they're coming in slightly lower than what I was looking for.
That makes the fourth quarter tough.
So what gives you confidence in making your fourth quarter numbers? Well the fourth quarter typically is just a seasonally very strong quarter.
So first of all for WhiteWave-Alpro it's far and away their strongest quarter.
So and the third quarter's really WhiteWave-Alpro's weakest quarter of the year.
So you'll see a very significant step up in operating profitability in WhiteWave-Alpro from Q3 to Q4 which is really the biggest driver of the outperformance in between the 2 quarters among the platforms.
And then the FDD-Morningstar business while in terms of volumes is not necessarily the strongest quarter it's a good quarter in terms of mix.
So with all the holidays in Q4 we skew more heavily toward creams creamers and a higher value-added portfolio of product.
And so it's just a better quarter.
It's not being driven by the changes in the expectations around volume in liquid milk in Q4.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Gregg I think you've talked about pockets of competitive pressure that you've started to see in the quarter just given the industry volume weakness.
Can you just give us a little bit more color as to maybe regions or how widespread that situation is? And then just in terms of the -- given the volume weakness what are you seeing in terms of the capacity in the industry? Well with respect to the level of competitive intensity I think in general I would characterize it as not different than Q2 and Q1.
It's episodic it's not concentrated in any particular region.
When it raises its head its impact is largely a function of the particular costumer or segment at issue and how much volume is associated with that customer.
But it's not widespread and I'm hopeful it won't spread more broadly simply because I do think we're kind of at margin levels in the industry where there's just not a lot of opportunity to sell it for less.
However I think your question gets at the right issue which is how confident do you feel about that in an industry where over the past quarter year-over-year we created 2% more capacity than existed in 2010? And now we're well into the second year of these volume declines and so overall capacity over that period is now up bordering on 3.5% or 4%.
So the issue is I think it gets to your final part of your question are we going to see that excess capacity manifest itself in pricing continuing to degrade or in capacity leading the industry? We're taking capacity out frankly as fast as we can get it out of the network.
We're starting to see other people or hear that other people are considering taking capacity out of their networks as well.
But most of these companies are private so they don't tend to announce it as clearly as we do.
But we understand there's some plants closing in the Midwest.
We've seen plants closed in the Southeast.
We know that plants are being offered for sale in various parts of the country.
If those sales processes don't result in transactions you may well see those facilities close.
So there is definitely a higher level of conversation and noise around capacity in the industry than has existed in the past because I think industry participants are beginning to come to the conclusion that some of these trends are less cyclical and more long-term trends than they might have thought when we entered into this period of decline beginning with the great recession.
So I'm hopeful it comes out of capacity but I'm not going to make that call with it just to see the amount of confidence at this point in time.
Okay.
And then just -- I know it's a little bit too early but if we think about 2012 I mean it sounds like this year you have high inflation both on the raw milk side and then some of the other packaging and fuel cost.
You've got weaker volume that's also leading to operating deleveraging.
And so that's eating into a lot of your cost savings.
But in 2012 if we assume relatively stable cost environment I mean I guess the issue is just really on the volume side.
But directionally can we see more of the cost savings getting passed through next year versus this year if we assume that the costs are more stable? It -- I'm really -- I'm not trying to avoid answering your question with specificity but I just want to -- let me just start by going back and refer you to our comments in the prepared remarks.
I think how much of our savings falls through to the bottom line will be inversely and linearly correlated with what happens to our volume.
So I think the underlying predicate of your question is should the cost environment stabilize will volume stabilize? Then therefore will you be able to take more cost to the bottom line? And I just don't know the answer that question.
Typically in the past if you had seen milk rise to $20 a hundredweight and stay there as you've got 2 3 4 quarters into that new price environment you would see some bounce back of the negative elasticity of the initial move up because consumers become habituated to the higher price level and they go back to their old consumption patterns because consumption patterns are hard to change over time.
What I don't know is whether that historical paradigm holds in the context of 9% in increasing unemployment very little income growth and lots of uncertainty around the direction of the economy.
So it's impossible for us to parse out how much of this quarter is virtually 2% decline the category was associated with price elasticity and how much of it is associated with the economic distress.
And so it's a little bit hard to call as to what happens with volume.
I can say this with absolute certainty we're going to like it better than this environment if it just stops going up.
And if it turns around and starts going down at least for a while we're going to like it a lot better than this environment.
Okay.
And then the new business that you won is -- first of all can you quantify how much that was? And then are there any other new businesses that could potentially give you some boost in the volume going forward? Yes.
Look we said earlier on in this year that we have picked up about 55 million gallons of new business.
That new business is performing quite well.
So we're actually seeing volumes run higher than that.
The flip side of that is we see our core business softer in terms of comp volumes period-to-period which leads to as I said on the call the disappointing result that with the volume we've taken we're still down in terms of milk gallons 1% year-over-year.
We frankly had expected to be up in this period or at least flat.
And I used the disappointing word a couple of times in my commentary.
While we delivered an in-line quarter I thought coming into the quarter that we could do better.
And I continue to believe that we can do better but again the fulcrum around doing better is going to be volume.
So we see the category as a whole softer than what we called.
The share gain in a declining category as you all have pointed out to me and you all know is a bit of a 2-edged sword.
But we have to keep volume in our system.
So we continue to look for areas where we can gain new volume in a way that is beneficial to our P&amp;L.
Okay.
And then just finally on the WhiteWave-Alpro so given that your leverage has come down a bit any update to thinking in terms of potentially unlocking the value of that business? I know you guys went through the review in October of last year but just in terms of how you're thinking about that option at this point? Yes look.
I think what we said early this year and late last year we understand the value unlocking potential of disaggregating our portfolio.
We understand that really clearly and we understand the benefit of our shareholders of doing that.
We've got to get to a position where we can do it in a way that in fact unlocks value.
And we still have some hurdles to overcome in terms of getting there.
So really no update with respect to that other than to reiterate that we are mindful of the value creation opportunity for our shareholders.
And we continue to try and move the business and its positioning to a logical place where that can be accomplished should at that time it continue to present value creation opportunities.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I had 2 questions for you.
The first one is just I want to ask a little bit more about the -- I think you said that it early on I may have missed it but the branded volume was better than private label volume in the quarter.
Was that correct for you? On a relative basis yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Yes okay.
Okay so it was down still is your point.
It's just better than what it was in private label? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
We did notice generally branded volumes in the milk category weakening throughout the quarter.
I think you also indicated that you didn't necessarily pass along all the pricing.
So I'm trying to understand how you were different from the category? Did you -- because you didn't pass along as much pricing your branded volumes were better than the category as well would you say that? Not necessarily.
I think the point that I would make about the branded part of this fluid -- conventional fluid milk category is that it is completely regional in terms of its geographic dynamics and is very different from marketplace to marketplace.
So to sort of generalize about what happened to industry branded volumes I think is not particularly illuminating of what's really happening in the category.
So in parts of our portfolio where we have relatively more premium-priced bands we struggle more than we did in places where our brands are priced much closer to private labels.
So there's a little bit of a complicated mix dynamic happening in our own branded portfolio.
I think that our behavior with respect to brands across the category is probably not that different from other players' behavior with respect to brands.
They're all mindful of price points and we're in sort of uncharted waters here again in terms of the absolute cost of milk out of stores.
So I don't have the data handy in front of me but I would guess that our behavior is not a heck of a lot different.
The other thing that I'd point out is that when we talk about branded volume there is also a -- there's a real channel element that goes on here.
Because in the small-format channel virtually all of our sales are branded because the velocities just aren't high enough to support the cost of additional brand in the private label.
And those are channels that are taking share from large format.
So if you look at the dollar channel to some extent the drug channel you'll see that -- and certainly the food service channel which is almost all branded those categories are performing better than retail which is putting a bit of a -- more of a foreign under our branded volume than you would see by just looking at IRI.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> That's  very helpful.
I want to ask around diesel and resin costs and the effect those are having on your profitability.
The question I had is that do you anticipate pricing up to those in the second half of the year? Or your more cautionary comments on volume reflective of a cost increase you just maybe can't price fully to? Yes.
Look I would say that we are trying to recover all of our inflation-imposed costs out of the marketplace because I mean you don't have to look much farther than our operating unit profit margins to understand the need to do so in this category.
And we don't have unlike the branded food players we don't have other line items in the P&amp;L that are strong levers we can pull to maintain profitability in a declining-volume environment.
So we need to recover inflation out of the marketplace.
The flip side of it is sometimes that's easier to say than it is to do.
I would refer you on the fuel complex back to my earlier comments which are recovery of non-milk input tends to lag the recovery of milk inputs in a rising inflation environment.
But we are out there in an effort to do so in the marketplace and I think the whole industry is under a similar source of pressures to recover it out of the marketplace.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
And I certainly heard that point.
My question just really revolved around how the volume weakness plays into that and I think you've sort of answered that just that it can be a challenge in some markets and -- to get that pricing through itself.
Yes.
But volume weakness makes all pricing more difficult.
Whether it's for input inflation or just pricing generally.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
If I could just guess one more follow-up and that'd be in the third quarter do you expect the FDD-Morningstar division to grow in profitability year-over-year? I think that it will be in the same neighborhood of profitability than it was last year.
I would call it flat to slightly down in terms of expected operating income in FDD-Morningstar in Q3 versus Q2 of last year.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess 2 questions Gregg.
With the first one is I mean I guess every company is dealing with the struggles of the macro environment and a tough consumer.
But other companies have at least theoretically the ability to drive consumption via new products advertising what-have-you.
Is there anything that Dean can do -- obviously I'm not talking about WhiteWave because that's more kind of a traditional CPG business.
But like are you working with the retailers to try to drive consumption in the categories? Or is there anything that can be done in that regard? Or is it basically just completely a function of the macro economy and that's kind of what you have to live with? Well first of all as to your commentary around CPG companies and the distinction between WhiteWave and FDD-Morningstar is apt.
It's an appropriate distinction.
You can see we are driving volumes positive gross margins significant P&amp;L leverage in WhiteWave because it does have a lot more levers to pull right? It has a significant advertising budget it's got an ongoing pipeline of innovation it's in categories frankly where our customer is doing better economically on average than the fluid milk category.
And it is -- it's just a more resilient business in this type of environment than the FDD-Morningstar portfolio of businesses.
In terms of what has been tried over the course of this recession I think it does point to over the short -- to the short to intermediate term the conclusion that we are really at the whim of what's happening in the broader macro environment.
So we have been in the last 4 quarters from an incredibly highly promotional environment where retailers were selling milk out of store at significantly less than their cost to historically high cost over this period of time.
And frankly in neither circumstance was there -- were there positive volumes in the category.
So we've been incredibly promotional as an industry right vertically connected all the way through the retailers.
And so price apparently is not going to be a significant driver here.
In terms of innovation there's lots of innovation happening in the broader milk category but frankly it's all happening in places like WhiteWave because the purpose of the innovation is to tell the consumer that there are benefits to be had and convince them that they should be prepared to pay for them.
And that requires products at higher price points and higher margins than exist in the liquid milk category.
So if you look at dairy and dairy-related beverages part of the problem in volume over time with liquid milk has been the success of what we're doing at WhiteWave.
And so the growth of the plant-based beverage category the shift from conventional to organic and then the shift within organic to more value added parts of that business.
And then within broader dairy there's also a meaningful shift of consumption I think from milk to the yogurt category.
So innovation is hard in multi-serve all-family products and that difficulty is compounded by the regulatory environment in milk that has very strict standards of identity.
So when you start altering this product you stop being able to call it milk under the federal regulatory regime that exists today.
Now I think that's incredibly outmoded it's medieval in its thinking but it's the thinking that persists today.
And so until those sorts of things change I think that what you're going to see is that innovation will continue to take place and in all likelihood it will continue to put pressure on volumes in the traditional conventional liquid milk segment.
Okay that's helpful.
And then my second question somewhat I guess unrelated but can you just give a sense in terms of how you see both -- this year is probably pretty clear in terms of CapEx D&amp;A interest -- I think  you mentioned interest expense but what -- can you give us some guidance as to those 3 things for 2012? I'm just trying to get a sense as to kind of the nonoperating things and how those kind of lay out both this year and maybe just a little bit of guidance in terms of next year? Yes.
I can give you a preliminary look because we're not finished with our plans for 2012.
We're several months ahead of being finalized on our plans.
But directionally I think you can say all 3 of those items and you can adjust interest expense for the amount of debt paydown that we've guided you to this year so incremental -- incrementally lower interest expense in 2012 versus 2011.
I think you can take the CapEx number and just copy it over one cell in your model.
It's going to be -- it may be slightly down but basically we're on a path of investing to take cost out of the business.
And to take cost out of the business it requires investment to close facilities and of course we're expanding capacity at WhiteWave.
So not quantum differences in capital spending going forward and therefore depreciation will step up to reflect the capital that we were spending this year just very modestly and continue to grow very modestly out into the future as our CapEx slightly exceeds our depreciation.
So not big changes in the outlook for those nonoperating items in 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Gregg just as a follow-up on the earlier question related to the impact to the hot weather on U.S.
production.
If you're looking for lower volumes here at least in the near term wouldn't that exacerbate the overcapacity issues and the cost pressures on fluid milk? Well look if price goes up elasticity is going to move volumes down.
So again I think we've made those remarks in our prepared comments that higher milk prices will exacerbate some of the volume trends in the category.
Clearly some of what was happening in Q2 was price elasticity.
All right.
In ice cream as well you think that on the hotter weather maybe people would need a little more ice cream right? Are you seeing kind of the same push back in ice cream or is it more a function of mix? First of all if you go back and just look at volume trends the milk volume trends at retail are eye-opening in terms of the negative volumes.
The volume's less negative in milk than it is in the broader ready-to-eat cereal category it's less negative than it is in the lunch meat it's less negative than it is in a bunch of other categories right? So the volume trends here are consistent with what we see in broader consumption across the food industry at retail.
Now as I've said in response to Eric's question these other categories have more P&amp;L levers to pull but in terms of volume they're not doing any better than the liquid milk category is by and large.
So when you get to ice cream you see ice cream is down more than milk at retail.
Part of that is because ice cream is expensive.
I think the heat is helping on a very temporary basis but ice cream is expensive.
And so when you've got consumers that are struggling economically they tend to trim at the edges first in terms of the more discretionary indulgent items and they tend to move back towards core items at a later pace.
So I think it's really instructive to look at what's happening in the ice cream mix business in the quick-serve restaurant area.
The QSRs McDonald's some of the other guys are doing very well in terms of their overall comps because it's good value.
But within their menu you see shifts that reflect what's happening with the consumer.
So their ice cream sales are not as robust as their sales are in other parts of the store and they've done a great job of introducing menu items like this frozen strawberry lemonade that don't have any dairy in them because of the high cost of dairy.
And so people are trading down to lower price point indulgences or cutting indulgences out everywhere you look across the consumer landscape.
So we see that a retail ice cream is soft.
We're going to get a little bump because of the heat but the basic driver there is I think the consumers' cut back.
Our final question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
This is Adam Josephson in for Akshay.
I'm sorry if I missed this earlier but last year in the conventional milk category sales of whole milk declined by far the most substantially while in recent months sales of all types of milk have been declining including fairly steep declines in skimmed milk.
What do you make of this trend if anything? I think the decline of whole milk vis-a-vis the rest of the category is a long-term secular decline part of it as people move to lower-fat product.
So I think that underlies the broader category trends.
Within that this is aggregated.
It's a little bit tough but I think there's some demographic trends in there.
Certain parts of the population have tended to over-index on the consumption of whole milk particularly the Hispanic demographic and other folks at the lower income part of the spectrum because these products are lined-priced in many grocery stores so you get 120 calories out of whole milk and maybe 140 calories and you get 80 or 90 calories out of skimmed.
So if you're trying to caloric bang for your buck you tend to buy higher fat products whole milk as opposed to skimmed.
And the first people to get really hit here were people at the lower income part of the demographic and they have cut back disproportionately on whole I think you saw that in 2009.
I think -- or 2010.
As the recession has lingered and it has bit more deeply I think you see everybody just cutting back a little bit.
So that's why spreading through the other fat levels would be my guess.
The other thing that's happening 2010 versus 2011 is milk prices are just much higher on an absolute basis at retail so that's driving negative elasticity everywhere.
So that's my best stab at it.
And one last one to what extent do you think the growth in organic soy on the milk et cetera is coming at the expense of conventional milk? A lot of it.
A lot of its substitution.
So I got 3 little kids at home.
My house is filled with Horizon Organic.
If it wasn't it would be filled with my local regional brand.
So in many cases as it relates to organic milk it's probably a direct substitute.
The other plant-based beverages are I think highly highly substitutable.
Probably not perfectly so because I think we're drawing consumers into the category would've been consumers for dairy milk but a lot of people are just switching.
Well operator we'll wrap up with questions with that last question.
Thank you all for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and we're going to look forward to talking to you again following the third quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kim and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
We issued a press release this morning which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods' website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
The earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided today are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude the expenses related to: facility closings and reorganization; expenses related to litigation matters; expenses related to asset write-downs; gains or losses from the divestiture of assets; and other non-recurring item in order to enable you to make a meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods.
The earnings release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated results along with reconciliations between GAAP and adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding our branding initiatives expected cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and in today's press release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Engles our Chairman and CEO; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off by providing a general review of results walking through the performance of the operating units and current business trend.
Following Gregg Shaun will offer some perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for some additional commentary the forward outlook and other closing comments.
We will then open the call for your questions.
With that I will now turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
As you can see from our press release this morning our underlying business continues to make progress and the third quarter marks the return to growth with 5% growth in consolidated operating income and 39% adjusted EPS growth.
However before we discuss the financial results in more detail I'd like to take a minute upfront to address the significant write-down of goodwill we took in the quarter on our Fresh Dairy Direct business unit.
We took a non-cash charge of $1.6 billion net of tax which is reflected in our GAAP financial results but has been eliminated from our adjusted results in keeping with our practice of excluding nonrecurring items for the purpose of comparability.
This charge represents the lower end of the estimated range of the total write-down that could be as much as $1.7 billion net of tax.
There is still work to be done to finalize the amount of the charge which we expect to complete in Q4 and adjust the charge accordingly at that time.
Like many companies that were built through a series of acquisitions the Fresh Dairy Direct business accumulated a significant amount of goodwill on this balance sheet.
As we've discussed over the past few years current economic conditions have resulted in increased challenges for the fresh milk processing industry.
Industry-wide volume declines lower consumer spending and price erosion have lowered the profit outlook for our fresh dairy business.
As a result of these challenges and our view that they are unlikely to improve materially we performed an interim goodwill analysis of the Fresh Dairy Direct business in the third quarter.
This analysis determined the fair value of the Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit was below its carrying value resulting in today's charge.
There are 3 things to keep in mind related to the impairment charge.
First the charges in accounting adjustment that reflects significantly changed industry conditions that have impacted both consumption and pricing across FDD's key categories and that we believe will continue to impact Fresh Dairy Direct going forward.
Second this charge is related only to the Fresh Dairy Direct business.
The WhiteWave-Alpro and Morningstar businesses have not been negatively affected by these conditions to the same degree as FDD and the goodwill associated with these businesses is not impaired.
Third this is a non-cash charge and has no impact on our operations cash flow or financial covenant compliance.
Let's now turn to the operating results for the third quarter.
As I mentioned upfront the third quarter marks a return to growth for Dean Foods.
Consolidated operating income of $108 million was 5% above year-ago levels and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.18 are 39% above Q3 2010.
Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar softened from prior year as milk prices for the quarter reached a historic peak.
Strong cost reduction and new business wins helped partially offset tough industry volumes and pricing challenges driven by high input cost inflation.
WhiteWave-Alpro again posted strong top and bottom line results driven by solid category dynamics effective pricing and continued innovation.
Corporate expenses declined due to our cost-focused strategic agenda resulting in a return to consolidated operating income and EPS growth in the quarter.
Now let's look at the results of each of the business segments in greater detail starting with Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar.
The business environment for FDD-Morningstar continues to be challenging.
Stressed consumers and store-wide inflation have driven negative volumes in many grocery categories in 2011.
Consistent with this trend conventional dairy category volumes continued to be soft.
Near-record retail dairy prices contributed to U.S.
fluid milk volume declines of 0.9% in the third quarter.
In contrast to the industry declines our Q3 fluid milk volumes were essentially flat with year-ago levels as a result of new business won in the first half of this year.
We remain focused on winning new volume and expect to continue outperforming the broader industry on a volume basis.
In addition to the over 50 million annual gallons of new business we added in Q2 we continue to add -- we continued to add new business that will come online in Q4.
FDD categories outside of fluid milk remain particularly soft with our ice cream cultured products and other product lines all posting softer year-on-year volume.
As a result across all of Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar total volumes declined 1% when adjusted for divested business.
Commodity inflation continue to post challenges to the business in Q3 and contributed to soft industry volume.
Fluid milk prices increased each month of the quarter peaking in September at $21.78 just shy of the all-time high price recorded in 2007.
For the quarter the Class I price averaged $21.41 per hundred-weight an 8% sequential increase from Q2 37% above year-ago levels and the highest quarterly average price ever recorded.
Since bottoming in March 2009 the Class I prices increased more than 130% rising in 22 out of 30 months through September and every month of 2011 through the third quarter except January.
This 2.5 year inflationary March has been challenging for our FDD-Morningstar business as we work to pass through the rising costs.
Reflected at retail these rising costs have also been hard on the already stretched consumer.
Higher retail prices have contributed to volume weakness in many of the categories we participate in.
However the dairy commodity forecast is modestly more favorable over the intermediate term.
Milk production in the United States has been strong this year increasing 1.6% from a year ago driven by high prices and solid export demand.
More recently farm production has remained strong while export demand has diminished somewhat.
This has led to declining prices across many dairy commodities driving a $2.22 decline in the October Class I price and an additional $1.11 decline in November.
Based on recent dairy commodity trading we expect the Class I Mover to increase modestly in December and then to resume a path of continued moderate declines through the first part of next year.
However with the ongoing devaluation of the dollar versus world currencies and continued losing [ph] market demand we expect the long-term average price of milk to be higher than historical average levels.
On the pricing side retail pricing for private label gallons continued to stabilize at a relatively consistent level above the cost of raw milk.
The margin over milk that measures this spread was down a bit in the third quarter from year-ago levels but has been relatively stable over the past 5 to 6 months.
At the wholesale level however pricing remained intensely competitive.
Persistent volume weakness across the industry continues to drive increased competitive pressure.
The sharply rising milk cost in the quarter several of our regional brands crossed retail price points and brand elasticity became more pronounced.
On a like-for-like basis branded volumes in Q3 declined faster than private label for the first time this year.
Continued strong cost reduction progress was offset by high input costs soft volume pricing pressure and a negative brand to private label mix to result in FDD-Morningstar gross profit that declined 5% in the quarter to $554 million.
Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar operating profit was $95 million in the third quarter.
These results were 18% below year-ago levels.
Soft volumes competitive pricing pressure record dairy prices and fuel-driven distribution costs that were $13 million above year-ago levels continued to challenge profitability.
Despite solid progress against our cautioned cost initiatives including an $18 million reduction in selling and G&amp;A versus prior year too much of our productivity work continues to be offset by these negative trends.
However as dairy prices come down throughout Q4 we expect FDD-Morningstar segment profit to rebound toward the level of recent quarters.
Before moving on to discuss WhiteWave-Alpro I would like to discuss a few of the positive things happening at Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar that may have been overshadowed by our recent business challenges.
First our cost reduction initiatives continued to progress.
We're on track to complete the $300 million cost reduction program we've began in 2009 by the end of this year.
We've leveraged our aggregate spend to reduce procurement costs.
We have increased efficiency across the supply chain.
We've reduced cost by optimizing our network.
Within the plants our supply chain team has worked hand-in-hand with local management to instill continuous improvement practices with detailed productivity measurement to identify and eliminate efficiency bottlenecks.
Costs have come out of distribution through leveraging of GPS and advanced routing technology.
Year-to-date fuel consumption is down 5% from year-ago levels.
These initiatives have been important in helping to blunt the pressures on the business over the past few years.
Second we've recently launched our first nationally branded flavored milk product TruMoo.
This reformulated product combines the great taste of pure cocoa lower total sugar and a high -- and no high fructose corn syrup to deliver a taste that kids love and a nutritional profile that parents want.
TruMoo was first launched in schools where we've worked closely with nutritionists and dietitians to provide a healthier alternative to traditional chocolate milk formulation.
Our formula meets the criteria of some of the most aggressive school food policy targets including the USDA's proposed nutrition standards for 2012.
TruMoo's presence in nearly 40% of school lunch rooms across the country drives brand familiarity and preference that carries over to support the retail and food service launch of the brand.
Third you may have seen the recent announcement that Dean Foods was named McDonald's 2011 Supplier of the Year.
We're very proud to be singled out of their more than 100 suppliers for this designation.
Past winners of this prestigious award include Coca-Cola Cargill and Tyson Food.
It is a proof point for our strategy to win with winning customers through recognition of the strong partnership we have developed with McDonald's.
Our success with this world-class customer is driven by our commitment to working with them to drive innovative product offerings and to provide best-in-class service on a day-in and day-out basis.
Let's now turn to our other segment WhiteWave-Alpro which once again posted strong results driven by solid top line growth and a continued focus on cost.
Third quarter marks the seventh consecutive quarter that all of our key WhiteWave-Alpro product categories have posted positive growth.
This growth is driven by solid volume trends category leading innovation and brand building commitment across the product line.
In total third quarter segment net sales grew 11% over the prior year to $531 million.
WhiteWave's creamer business consisting of International Delight and Land O'Lakes creamers continue to post strong growth in Q3 with net sales up in the mid-teens.
Our lineup of International Delight CoffeeHouse Inspirations and new items like Almond Joy and Cinnabon-flavored creamers keep the product set fresh and support the growth of the brand.
We continue to have a solid pipeline of innovations behind International Delight about which we are very optimistic.
Horizon Organic also posted another quarter of strong results with fluid milk sales growing in the low double-digits for the third quarter.
Sales growth continues to be driven by innovation and value-added products such as Horizon with DHA and Horizon single-serve.
We do however anticipate that organic milk category growth will slow over the next few quarters as industry supply has tightened considerably.
Our lineup of Silk products continues to post solid growth as well.
For the quarter Silk net sales increased in the mid-single-digits as our almond and coconut milk continued to grow at a rapid pace.
Silk is the clear share leader across plant-based beverages with 4x the share of its nearest competitor.
We will continue to drive the category with a solid pipeline in plant-based beverage innovation.
Alpro net sales were up modestly on a constant-currency basis constrained by the continued economic weakness in southern Europe.
Net sales increased high single-digits after currency conversion.
Overall WhiteWave-Alpro continued to leverage growing volumes and tight cost control to deliver operating income of $53 million for the segment 34% above year-ago levels.
Momentum continues across WhiteWave-Alpro and we look forward to a solid finish to the year.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Shaun for some additional commentary on the financials.
Shaun? Thanks Gregg.
Good morning everyone.
I'll take a few minutes now to walk through the consolidated financial performance in the quarter from a P&amp;L cash flow and debt perspective.
Starting with the P&amp;L consolidated gross profit of $741 million was $8 million below the year-ago quarter.
A 5% decline in Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar gross profit was partially offset by 10% growth at WhiteWave-Alpro.
Looking at operating expenses distribution expense continued to be the most notable headwind.
In aggregate distribution expense was up $20 million or 5% above year-ago levels despite lower usage.
Higher fuel costs and increased expense at WhiteWave driven by capacity constraints continued to negatively impact the P&amp;L despite solid progress on our efficiency initiatives.
Outside of distribution total SG&amp;A costs declined 12% in the quarter as our cost focus drives savings across these areas.
As a reminder our goal was to reduce our SG&amp;A costs excluding incentive compensation and advertising by $60 million on an annualized run rate basis by year end.
Upon this basis costs were $22 million below year-ago levels in the third quarter already exceeding our annual run rate goal.
As part of this we have reduced over 350 employees within SG&amp;A since the beginning of the year.
This strong focus on cost reduction across SG&amp;A helped drive 5% growth in consolidated operating income for the quarter.
Interest expense declined $2 million from the year-ago period and for the full year we expect interest expense to be in the range of $253 million to $255 million.
Our income tax rate of 28% came in lower than in past quarters driven primarily by the favorable non-cash settlement of a tax examination.
With that we now expect our full year 2011 tax rate to be approximately 34% to 36%.
And looking ahead to 2012 we believe our mix of domestic and foreign income should result in a tax rate decline of 1 to 2 points versus our historical rates.
Net income of $33 million resulted in third quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.18 a 39% increase from the year-ago result.
Turning now to the cash flow and balance sheet.
Total net debt increased slightly during the quarter but remained approximately $3.7 billion.
The increase in debt in the quarter was due to an $18 million increase in capital spending driven by our investment in the new WhiteWave facility and a $64 million build in working capital primarily due to the significant increases in dairy commodities as our cash conversion cycle was consistent with the year-ago levels.
All things being equal as dairy commodities moderate in Q4 we would expect to see a reversal of our Q3 working capital investment.
At quarter end leverage ratio of funded debt to EBITDA as defined by our credit agreements declined to 4.91x versus 4.95x last quarter.
As we have said previously we continue to expect to end the year below 4.75x more than a full term below our current maximum covenant of 5.75x and also well below the step-down to 5.5x at the end of Q1 2012.
With that I'll turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on the forward outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Thank you Shaun.
Looking ahead recent trends continue across the business.
Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar continues to face a difficult volume and competitive wholesale pricing environment.
We expect this to continue into the fourth quarter.
However results should benefit from our continued focus on cost reduction across the business including additional headcount reduction in Q3 moderating dairy commodities and typical Q4 seasonality that has a beneficial mix component.
All in we expect FDD-Morningstar results to rebound toward the level of recent quarters in Q4.
At WhiteWave-Alpro strong top line trends continue as we enter the seasonally strongest quarter of the year.
We therefore expect WhiteWave-Alpro to have a solid end to the year with full year segment operating income to grow in the high teen.
Corporate costs will continue to be a tailwind for the business as our sharp focus on SG&amp;A reduction will drive significant year-over-year savings in Q4.
In all we expect fourth quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share to step up from third quarter levels to between $0.20 and $0.25 per share resulting in full year 2011 adjusted diluted earnings per share of between $0.69 and $0.74 per share.
Looking ahead to 2012 we are not prepared to give full year guidance because our planning process is not yet complete.
However our planning is based on assumptions for continued soft volumes in conventional dairy categories and continued pricing pressures with cost savings and a modestly declining dairy commodity cost environment benefiting result particularly in the first half.
At WhiteWave momentum is expected to continue but there are some challenges to overcome.
We will face significant inflation across many important commodities that will need to be offset through our efficiency program.
Moreover while the new plant we're building in Dallas will provide long-term cost advantages it will likely be a drag on profitability in the first half as we experience the full depreciation of the new facility but will not yet have it fully loaded with volume.
Also as it relates to our Horizon Organic business the strong growth in the category -- with the strong growth in the category demand has outstripped available industry supply and volume growth rates will need to come down next year until the industry builds new supply.
As a reminder converting a farm from conventional to organic can be a lengthy process where periods of supply and demand imbalance are not uncommon as the category experiences rapid growth.
Overall we expect our profit mix to continue to skew toward the faster-growing branded businesses as WhiteWave-Alpro continues to demonstrate strong growth and we step up the work towards stabilizing FDD-Morningstar results.
We'll have more to say about our expectations for 2012 in February when we report our fourth quarter results.
I'll now end the prepared section of the call by thanking you again for your continued interest in Dean Foods and open the line for your questions.
Kim? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Farha Aslam.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the moderation in dairy costs could you just share with us the different ways that that benefits your business in terms of volume pricing? How much of that do you think falls to the bottom line versus being shared as part of your contracts? Well we've covered this topic I think repeatedly in terms of the pass-through of the commodities.
So the pass-through of the commodity is at least in the large-format section of the trade highly efficient and highly formulaic.
So if milk prices go up $0.10 a gallon or down $0.10 a gallon that tends to be reflected one-for-one in our relationships with the trade.
But there are other effects and there are also some timing effects related to changes in milk prices that either hurt you when prices are going up or help you when they're coming down.
So while the pass-through is largely congruent with changes in the price on -- with respect to timing sometimes the timing of the change in price is not perfectly aligned with the timing in the change in your costs.
So for example a number of retailers only change their prices in-store on Mondays and so they only accept price changes on milk either up or down on the first Monday of the month.
That obviously hurts you when prices are going up it helps you when prices are going down so there's a modest benefit to that lag in timing with respect to the changes in milk prices.
But lower milk prices help you in a number of other ways.
First of all there's a natural amount of product loss whether it's from product loss in the manufacturing process or spoils and returns and those product losses cost you less when the basic cost of raw milk is lower than when it's higher so that's a beneficial effect on the cost side of your business.
A portion of our business is fixed price contracts.
For example a portion of our school business is fixed price contracts and obviously you suffer margin compression as milk prices rise in those contracts and you enjoy margin expansion as milk prices fall with respect to those contracts.
And then certain of our other costs are based on price.
So sometimes commissions to our sales force are priced rather than volume-linked and as prices come down commission expenses and all sorts of things come down.
So the net-net of it is the falling milk price environment is a much more pleasant environment to be in than a rising milk price environment and we are keenly hopeful that this volume price environment lasts throughout the first half of the year.
And moving on our next question is from Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So CapEx was up substantially this quarter.
I think that led to a negative free cash flow this time around.
Could you remind us of what the drivers of the elevated CapEx are now? And what the outlook is going forward maybe even out into next year at a high level? Yes.
The main driver of elevated CapEx in Q2 particularly Q3 which we just reported and continuing into Q4 are the capital costs of constructing our new WhiteWave manufacturing facility in Dallas Texas.
So we spent against that facility alone in excess of $40 million against...
Almost $60 million through the first 3 quarters.
Yes so close to $60 million through the first 3 quarters.
But in Q4 a big step up in costs against that plant as we accept equipment deliveries and those sorts of things into those facilities.
So it's a bit of a watermelon going through the pipe in Q3 and Q4.
As we look out into 2012 total CapEx of this year will be in and around $325 million to $350 million.
Looking out into 2012 we should see that capital spending number come back down.
We don't have an exact number for you but it will be down from 2012 levels or from 2011 levels I'm sorry.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
A quick follow-up advertising spending I know that's not normally a topic that comes up here.
But it looks as though in the last couple of years it has come up quite a bit.
What's your strategy here? And what benefits are you seeing from that increased advertising spend? Well I think the most obvious benefit that I'd point you to is 34% operating income growth in our branded business.
So I don't follow as closely as you all on the call follow the performance of other branded food companies.
But if you look at our branded business we had a unique I think amount of strength in our business and have had for a number of quarters here.
So the WhiteWave business would be characterized by a combination of volumes up 5% and pricing up 5%.
I don't know if many other companies that are taking both price and achieving increasing volumes like we are in our brand business and that's driven by the great brands we have the great categories we operate in and I think by our investments in innovation and marketing in those businesses so we are continuing to spend meaningfully against those businesses.
I think if you go back more than a couple of years ago though however sort of the step function change in advertising you see would be associated with our acquisition in mid-2009 of the Alpro business so that there hasn't been a step function increase in advertising in the WhiteWave business.
It's really the acquisition of the Alpro business I think in mid-2009 that you see driving significant period-over-period increases in 2010 and particularly in 2010.
But we continue to advertise heavily against our brands.
One of the realities though however of today's marketplace is given the state of the consumer we are investing as much or more in net price in our branded businesses as we are in marketing as we operate in a somewhat more promotional environment than has existed in the past.
The numbers themselves are basically flat period-to-period Alexia.
We have not increased advertising for the first 3 quarters of the year versus 2010.
And moving on our next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gregg I guess your fourth quarter guidance you've talked about the Fresh Dairy Direct sort of returning to the profit levels that you've seen in recent quarters.
I guess that implies maybe $110 million to $150 million in fourth quarter or so.
How should we think about that as a run rate as we enter 2012 and sort of the puts and takes that would affect that number either the cost savings the non-milk inflation funds the volume deleveraging and sort of thinking about the branded versus private label mix situation? Yes I think those are all factors Judy that will drive this.
The reality of the last several quarters is that we've basically had with the exception of Q3 and I'll give you a little more insight on I think what happened in Q3 on the FDD side of the business but we basically held operating income flat in that segment for the last 5 or 6 quarters with declining volumes and the deleverage that that implies being offset by cost savings.
And I think that that basic dynamic remains in place right.
We still see a soft volume environment.
It did mitigate a little bit in Q3 down about 1% rather than down 2%.
And we may get a bit of a bounce back in Q4 and going into Q1 of 2012 if milk prices continue to come down.
The decline in milk prices though looks like it's going to stall in December and the factors that we discussed of a robust export environment and a depreciating dollar against a weighted average basket of currencies I think puts a little bit of a floor on our milk prices.
So if we get some volume uplift from the price elasticity of milk prices coming down that would be beneficial to our outlook for Q4 and going into the first half.
Likewise given the relative margins that retailers take on our regional brands versus their private label brands today the decline in retail pricing for our reasonably branded products typically is larger than the decline in private labels in a declining milk environment which brings our brands back more into value and that would have -- if that happens that will have a significant positive mix benefit for us as a company.
So those are potential upsides in the FDD world as you look out into Q4 and into Q1.
We continue to face non-milk input inflation so the respite that we're getting in Q4 in fuel or at least the early parts of Q4 were helpful although I think as you look out and see what actually happened to diesel prices as opposed to what happened to West Texas Intermediate crude you didn't see as big a decline as you would like because I think our fuel prices are driven more by Brent today which did not come down as much as WTI came down and now we're seeing inflation on the fuel side again so that's a potential headwind as we go into the back half of Q4 and into Q1.
And then things like res and [indiscernible] continue to be pretty inflationary.
So we've got work to do to offset the inflation and the negative effect of declining volumes in the category but we have an ongoing program of cost reduction and that's why we've given the guidance we've given at this point in time for Q4.
Moving on our next question will come from Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question for you.
Obviously the volume in your other dairy products was a little -- was still soft in the quarter is that that's Morningstar-related I presume? And is that just related to overall higher prices? Do you see those volumes getting a little better as kind of a non-milk volume? We have -- we do have weakness in some categories of the Morningstar segment particularly in our ice cream mix business which the Q the third quarter is a big quarter for ice cream mix.
And it's really a -- that's really a quick service restaurant business and it's a quick service restaurant phenomenon.
So in the QSR category with dairy prices at all-time highs and fixed menu prices you saw much less promotion this year of ice cream and shakes at restaurants and you saw much more promotion of things that didn't have dairy in them like well for example McDonald's ice Frozen Strawberry Lemonade right? So more profitable items on the menus being promoted instead of dairy-based desserts on the dessert portion of their menus.
So that's going to be a watchout going forward.
A high relative dairy commodity environment will have impacts on consumption and not just at retail so that's part of the driver in Q3.
The other part really is FDD-related and it's in ancillary categories like cottage cheese and sour cream around our regional brands.
And there what you see is just a -- much the same that you see in milk but an increased level of competition and an increased focus on cost by retailers driving more products through the warehouse as opposed to our DSD system in those ancillary categories.
So those categories have been weak for several quarters and we expect them to continue to be pretty weak.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to ask a follow-up question.
Do you expect that -- are you going to have a formal cost reduction target going forward or maybe better yet if you could speak to what you expect in 2012? Is it $100 million a year still or just trying to get a little better sense for the future.
Agreed we've got an ongoing cost reduction effort here.
I think we'll give you more explicit guidance as -- on the Q4 call in February around the target.
But we have an ongoing program of cost reduction built into our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you want to have like a multiyear target again or will it be sort of an annual target or what do you expect to do going forward? I think we'll just address that on the Q4 call.
And Chris just one other point as you talk about volume the one thing to keep in mind and you may have already done this is we divested yogurt earlier in the year so those volume declines year-on-year are showing up.
If you back out yogurt we've done about 1% in total volume for everything year-on-year.
Moving on our next question is from Carla Casella from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the milk side.
You mentioned that you don't expect milk costs to go back to the historical levels just given industry demand and supply.
Can you just give us a sense of how much higher you expect the new norm to be? And what kind of pricing you need to see at retail to get your margins on the milk back up into the low 20s from dropping below -- a little below 20 this quarter? Well as to the new normal if you had asked me this question 5 years ago I think I would have told you the normal price range for milk was sort of $12 to $13.
Today I'd say the normal price range for milk is going to be $16 to $18.
I think that's the difference in the cost buildup on the farm side to sustain supply.
So input costs if you look at the grain complex we're up from $3 corn to $6 or $7 corn.
Fuel's up double over that period of time.
So you just see a much higher cost base for farmers and therefore a higher breakeven cost in order to maintain supply.
So I think we're in -- I think we've moved up 40% to 50% in terms of what the ongoing normal price is for raw milk inputs in the U.S.
In terms of the price environment what we really need to see there is we need to see gross or margins on private label milk return to more normal levels.
We still are not back to precrisis levels.
In fact I think we're quite a way below precrisis levels in terms of retailer margin on private label milk which is causing a structural shift in the relationship between private label at shelf and brand at shelf which is causing a negative mix effect for us which is really the primary driver of the mix out of gross margin in the business.
So when the retail marketplace stabilizes which I think will be coincident with the abating of the recession and unemployment then I think we'll return to a more normal mix of business and a more normal margin structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay just as a follow up.
With the fourth quarter costs coming down from third quarter what kind of top line do you need to see in fourth quarter to get that gross margin in milk back up to over 20%? Or will the costs alone won't get you there? Yes I don't -- we don't really analyze the business in those terms so what we need to see is volumes on a per day running at 9.6 million to 9.7 million gallons in the FDD business.
And again we need to see the brand-private label gap start to close.
And aside from that we will benefit from the lagging and dragging benefits that I described in milk prices falling in answer to Judy Hong's question.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear next from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm kind of surprised nobody's asked about this goodwill charge so I want to kind of touch on this.
So you say it has no financial covenant compliance but I assume your shareholders' equity is now a deficit.
So I'm kind of interested in how the covenants don't get impacted by that at all.
And my understanding I'm not an accountant but my understanding is that you test the goodwill based on the present value of the cash flow capabilities of those brands.
And so if you're writing off such a large amount doesn't that reflect limited cash flow in the future of what those brands can produce? I guess Eric take a step back from a process standpoint.
On an annual basis you're correct.
We look at the goodwill and we assess the fair value of the goodwill compare it to what the future cash flows are.
So we've done that exercise officially last year at the end of the year and we knew there was a concern there and we raised that in the 10-K and we've looked at that subsequent to that over the last couple of quarters.
As we look at the business model today and all the trends that Gregg has talked about today and on previous calls we see that trend continuing for the future.
And when you do the cash flows on that that leads to an impairment of goodwill.
The process then provides an analysis of what the fair value of underlying assets are and then how that compares to the goodwill you have on the books which led to the write-down in Q3.
In terms of the covenants we've gone through the covenants.
We've talked to the banks we've talked to the lenders on this they understand what we're doing and that there is no impact from their end on what those covenants are out there at this point in time.
It will result in a negative shareholder value on the financial statements and you'll see that in the balance sheet if it's not in the press release already.
Yes.
We have 2 covenants in our bank deal.
We have an interest coverage covenant.
Obviously the retained earnings or the net worth -- the net equity of the business is not a part of that calculation.
And we have an EBITDA-to-debt covenant a leverage covenant and of course is not affected by that because this is non-cash.
So it doesn't affect either the quantum of our debt or the amount of EBITDA and ongoing earnings that we produce.
So we have those 2 covenants in our deal and neither one of them are linked to the shareholder equity amount in our balance sheet.
Right that's...
They receive leverage out of interest covenants.
Yes.
They're leveraged in interest coverage covenants.
So that's the technical answer to the covenant question.
Your question around the ongoing profitability of the brands however I think I may be misinterpreting your comment but the test around goodwill is not a test around brands specifically it's a test around the business.
So the goodwill that got booked on our balance sheet that's now being written off in the course of building the business was the excess of the value that we paid for those businesses over their hard asset value right.
So if we bought a business with one plant and the plant was valued at $25 million and we paid $50 million the $25 million over the hard asset value got booked as goodwill.
And that goodwill was created because we paid for the cash flows of the business at the time as opposed to the bricks and mortar of the business.
And what the goodwill write-down really says today is that the cash flows of the business today and as we look out into the future our belief of -- if the cash flows of this business going forward do not support that goodwill on our balance sheet right.
So to the extent that we have written down goodwill it is a reflection of the fact -- an accounting reflection of the fact that what we've been saying here for the last 8 or 9 quarters.
This business has for a structurally change to a lower cash flow lower profitability business and existed coming out of 2009.
And we don't see the fundamental conditions that have caused that decline in profitability reversing over the forecast period that we have right.
We have declining volumes.
You have pressure on pricing because of declining volumes.
You have a fundamentally more challenged environment than existed up through 2009 and that's reflected in the goodwill write-down.
Moving on our next question is from Amit Sharma from BMO Capital Markets.
A question about the dairy business.
If you look at operating profit down $21 million from last year and you cited 4 key reasons for that.
I just want to get a little bit better understanding of contribution of each of those 4.
So yes that's soft volume higher fuel-related distribution costs competitive activity and then branded private label mix.
So if you could kind of like give us a little bit more understanding of how each of those 4 impacted quarterly profitability in the dairy business? And the reason I'm asking is that some of that is deleveraging which if you have 1% lower volume it is understandable.
But some of that will also reverse going forward as you have pricing so just if you can please.
Yes.
I'm not going to be able to give you a waterfall chart of the puts and takes because offsetting the declining volumes you have productivity and those sorts of things.
Probably the most linear thing I can point you to is that we recovered all of the increase in milk in our pricing.
But if you look at our pricing we did not recover the $13 million increase in fuel right.
So that would be -- aside from that there's going to be puts and takes right.
There's going to be negative impact from volume offset by productivity.
There's brand mix out which by the way is not inconsequential in the quarter as some of our important brands crossed the $5 and $6 price threshold at retail.
But the most linear explanation I can give you or disaggregation of the $21 million is that we did not recover price for $13 million increase in fuel during the quarter.
So as we go into the fourth quarter you expect to recover that $13 million back or at least get pricing to offset most of that? Yes.
We're pricing to recover all of our non-input costs although it is not as formulaic as milk.
But yes we are attempting to price to cover all of those costs.
And then of course the other factors that have hurt you begin to reverse right.
So all of the shrinkage and lags and drags in milk pricing going up begin to work in your favor has benefits.
Your brands come more in value and so the business starts to recover some of what it's suffered from what we just remind you again the highest average milk price in history during Q3.
Moving on our next question comes from Jonathan Feeney from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Gregg I wanted to follow up on a comment you just made actually coincidentally about the milk category.
Because I'd see how in the past year those all-time high Class I Mover prices have contributed to a worsening of the declines.
But when I look back at the data you've given us over the past 2 or 3 years about segment performance it's been a pretty consistent trend down in terms of volume since basically '08.
I mean it looks like it's macro related and even in '09 when we had some very significant declines in fluid milk prices you still had a decline in the category.
And I guess so to be specific when we see falling milk prices like it looks like we will do you expect positive numbers for the category and you by implication for Dean Foods? And if not how do you think the industry is dealing with this as the category gets smaller and smaller? Yes that's a great question Jonathan and one that I'm afraid I won't give you a completely satisfactory answer to because there are -- I'll do my best.
There are more than one factor driving the change in consumptions.
There's the elasticity affected or generated by changes in price.
That will help us as milk comes down.
However you're absolutely right.
Macro factors around the economy have been a significant driver of decreased volume and a volume declines at an increasing rate over the last 7 or 8 quarters.
So this is a category that is highly correlated with the recession because it's an all-household category right.
These products are in every home in America as a general rule.
So there's a big chunk of the American population that is struggling is on food stamps is on employment assistance and those people are trimming everywhere.
Now I mean you see this in every category.
Look at the cereal category which is useful I think to look at our category.
There you've seen volumes consistently down kind of mid-single-digits.
In the latest 12 weeks cereal volume down 5%.
I'm actually surprised milk's not down more in the context of that environment.
We're fortunate milk has a lot of other ingredient uses.
But price alone is not going to be the magic bullet to declining volumes here.
So that's why when you look at everything from the goodwill charge to our Q4 guidance to the Q1 guidance and 2012 outlook we see a soft volume environment even with declining milk prices right.
So will we get a bump if milk prices come down meaningfully? Yes.
Will it be enough to offset the other negative headwinds and turn this category positive? I can't give you an answer to that.
But there are -- will be countervailing forces that are negative on volume going forward.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up would be thinking about the category earlier this year the economists at the USDA put out -- they basically put out these plate waste assumptions about how much food's wasted in different places and dairy is obviously one of the higher ones just due to its spoilage and whatnot.
And they revised upward some of the waste estimates where however they come to those I'm not an economist.
But I mean could it be that just consumers are getting a little bit more careful about not wasting milk? Maybe and that we've permanently seen a contraction that way even versus what consumption indications are? Yes I think it's entirely possible.
Look I've got 4 kids 6 and under in my house.
And I'm going to guess that the milk that comes out of the carton about 60% of it gets consumed.
Now you know that's a N of 1 in terms of a sample size but sure.
I think consumers are just tightening their belt everywhere and there is room to tighten your belt everywhere.
So yes I'm sure that's part of it.
We'll move on to Reza Vahabzadeh from Barclays Capital.
Just as far as the WhiteWave business is concerned was there any decline in a reduction in advertising spending or corporate expense that specifically affected the WhiteWave business that helped the EBIT to go higher? Not anything unusual.
There's always phasing in your advertising but I think the best way to think about WhiteWave-Alpro will be on a full year basis and there what we said in terms of guidance was operating income would be up high teens for the year.
And we've had quarters that were high single-digits this year and we had a 34% quarter and quarters that were midteens.
But when you look at the whole year you'll see operating income up here between 15% and 20%.
So this is a business that has fantastic fundamentals is executing extremely well and I think is well positioned to continue to grow.
Right.
And as a follow-up Shaun the corporate expense reduction that you achieved in the third quarter does that place you ahead of your full year goal? Yes.
So is the target now higher than your prior number of $60 million? Good question.
We're still working to get to the right number but we're working to get the cost down as quickly as we can and you saw that in Q3.
Right.
But you're ahead of $60 million right now? We're ahead of the run rate.
With the run rate we'd be $15 million a quarter we took $22 million out in Q3.
And our next question is from Ryan Oksenhendler from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My question I guess to follow up on Amit's question about the passing through of fuel costs.
When you look at 4Q what have you been telling retailers and showing them that will allow you to take pricing that didn't allow you to take a pricing earlier? And do you think the industry can move towards pushing through some of the nondairy costs into the contracts on a monthly basis so that there's more of an offset and less volatility quarter-to-quarter? Yes let me take the second part first.
We're steadily attempting to do that.
It's a customer-by-customer process to improve our formulas for the pass-through of nondairy commodities.
With respect to additional pricing in Q4 for fuel again that's a customer-by-customer exercise and it just basically involves showing the customer that we haven't recovered all of our fuel costs for the year and negotiation around that.
So again it's a one-off process that we're working very hard at to recover all of our input our cost inflation in price.
Research Division</strong> And if we see -- you said you saw some deflation early in the quarter but if things start to move up as you're discussing this with them can you take pricing fourth quarter so that will offset it in the fourth quarter? Or is there always going to be some type of lag effect? There's just a lag effect because of the negotiation process but we price monthly right.
So if there are moves during a month we have the opportunity to try to respond to it on our monthly pricing actions.
So we're not bound quarterly or yearly.
We have an industry model here that involves very frequent pricing.
So we do have opportunities to take price.
It comes down then into execution in the marketplace permitting us to take price.
And it looks like we have time for one more question today and that will come from David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just have one question left.
I wanted to talk about milk prices and you talked about and really just about margins in relation to milk prices.
We've been talking about how there might be some near-term commodity relief and that makes a lot of sense for 4Q maybe into the first quarter.
But what would you say about the concern that those near-term relief just from the timing of having private label milk maybe not come down as much as the commodity milk and maybe even branded coming down a little bit more gaining share.
Those dynamics maybe near-term lift but they evaporate quickly as the supermarket channel chases those commodity prices down in an effort to still gain foot traffic in a soft environment.
Do you feel like the supermarkets will allow that margin available to processors and retailers to remain high through 2012? Look I think it's a great question.
I don't think my crystal ball is that good.
But I think what the question highlights is that we still have difficult category dynamics here and a difficult economic situation that is not going to entirely go away because milk prices go down right.
What I'm absolutely clear about is that we'll be better off with lower milk prices and declining milk prices than higher and rising milk prices.
But the questions that you and Amit and other people are poking around on our -- gee that the world isn't totally healed here as it relates to your business and that's an accurate assessment.
Like there are still a soft economy you're still going to have a very competitive retail environment.
Milk will still be seen as a traffic builder you still have declining volumes.
So that is the reality of the FDD business right.
I think the reality of the brand business continues to be very different.
You have a more upscale consumer they're employed they feel more confident.
Our brands are on trend with what they want to achieve for themselves and their families.
So you still have this divergence of businesses between the all-family commodity business and the higher end more on trend business.
And the all-family commodity business is still going to be shackled to a tough economic environment and a competitive retail environment.
And that does conclude our Q&amp;A session today.
Mr.
Sievert I'll turn the conference back to you.
Thank you Kim.
We appreciate all of your attendance on the call today and your interest in Dean Foods and we look forward to talking to you in February.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over for opening remarks to Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Katie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
We issued an earnings press release this morning which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The release is also filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
The earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided today are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude the expenses related to facility closings and reorganizations expenses related to litigation matters expenses related to goodwill impairment and other asset write-downs gains or losses from the divestiture of assets and other nonrecurring items in order to enable you to make a meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods.
The earnings release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated results along with reconciliations between GAAP and adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding our branding initiatives expected cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning these risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q and in today's press release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Engles our Chairman and CEO; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off by providing an overview of our reporting segments and a review of their recent results.
Following Gregg Shaun will offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for some commentary on the forward outlook and other closing comments.
We will then open the call for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
Today we reported Q4 adjusted diluted earnings of $0.27 per share $0.02 above the high end of our guidance of $0.20 to $0.25 for the quarter.
I'm pleased with the results of the quarter but even more pleased that we've continued to meet our financial and operational commitments to our stockholders.
While 2011 was not without its challenges we met or exceeded our guidance in all 4 quarters and finished the year with $464 million of full year operating income and adjusted diluted earnings of $0.77 per share.
We will continue to strive to build on this track record in 2012 and beyond.
In addition to the EPS results other Q4 highlights include consolidated adjusted operating income growth of 21%; year-over-year profit growth in our Fresh Dairy Direct business which posted an 11% increase in Q4 operating income; and continued strong performance of WhiteWave-Alpro which closed out a highly successful year with 6% top line and 17% adjusted operating income growth for the quarter.
I'll discuss these results in more detail in a moment but before I do I wanted to address the change in segment reporting we've made beginning with this earnings report.
As discussed in the earnings release we issued this morning we have broken Morningstar Foods out as a separate reportable segment from our FDD fresh milk business.
Significant changes in the fresh milk business and diverging market conditions go-to-market models and customer bases have increasingly led us to view the FDD and Morningstar businesses differently.
Going forward we'll manage invest in and develop strategy for these businesses separately.
Therefore we will now report the business in 3 segments: Fresh Dairy Direct WhiteWave-Alpro and Morningstar.
Our upcoming 10-K filings will include 2010 and 2009 results recast to reflect the new segment alignment.
Additionally we will post unaudited supplemental information on our website this morning to assist you in further understanding the financial performance of these segments.
As part of these adjustments we recently made a change in the leadership structure of Fresh Dairy Direct.
We've combined the supply chain and commercial functions of FDD under a single leadership team to ensure the organization is aligned and to facilitate more rapid decision-making.
Gregg Tanner our Chief Supply Chain Officer since 2007 has taken on the additional role of Fresh Dairy Direct President to ensure alignment between the manufacturing and selling organizations at FDD.
Let me now provide an overview of the 3 segments and their Q4 performance starting with the Morningstar business.
Morningstar is a leading provider of extended shelf life value-added creamer beverage and cultured dairy products with an emphasis on foodservice customers and private label retail.
Segment net sales for 2011 were $1.3 billion.
Approximately 64% of Morningstar's 2011 sales were in the foodservice channel and 36% were to retail or other customers.
Segment sales are primarily composed of products in 2 broad categories.
Extended shelf life cream and beverage products including milk ice cream mix and aerosol whipped toppings comprise 79% of 2011 Morningstar sales.
Cultured products including cottage cheese and sour cream comprise 21% of sales.
One of Morningstar's core strengths is this investment to support customers through the development of innovative products menu items and in-store solutions that drive customer volume and profit.
For example our Morningstar team worked with McDonald's in the development of the successful McCaf Frappe beverage lines and this work was instrumental in Dean Foods being named McDonald's Supplier of the Year for 2011.
Although Morningstar's core financial performance has been solid over the last several years reported operating income has been impacted by divestitures and other intercompany adjustments.
Excluding these items we estimate that operating income increased approximately 15% at Morningstar in 2010 and 9% in 2011.
We plan to invest to support the future growth of this business and expect continued solid returns from that investment.
Future success for the business will be driven by continued innovation and successful customer partnerships.
Turning to Q4 results Morningstar reported net sales of $349 million or 7% above Q4 of 2010.
The increase in net sales was driven primarily by a mix shift within the portfolio.
Volumes for the segment were essentially flat with the year-ago quarter.
However excluding the impact of our Q2 2011 private label yogurt divestiture Morningstar volumes were 12% higher than the year ago period.
Adjusting for divestitures Q4 volumes grew across the Morningstar product line with ESL beverages and cream products up low-double digits and cultured volume up mid-teens.
Morningstar's 2011 operating results are clouded by our Q2 divestiture of the yogurt business.
However we saw solid growth and income from an ongoing business in both 2010 and again in 2011.
Excluding the estimated impact of the divestiture full year 2011 operating income increased by approximately 9% from the prior period.
We are pleased to begin to highlight the Morningstar segment more clearly under our new reporting structure in 2011 and beyond.
It is a business with strong and unique capabilities and growing segments.
Morningstar enters 2012 with solid momentum and we expect it to continue to post solid growth this year.
Our branded segment WhiteWave-Alpro is a world-class branded platform with a history of strong top and bottom line growth driven by innovation and market-leading brands in growth categories.
For 2011 WhiteWave-Alpro net sales were $2.1 billion.
Silk and Alpro plant-based beverages and foods comprise 40% of sales; creamers 32%; and Horizon Organic products 24% of sales.
The business has performed exceptionally well in recent years and operating income margins have generally been around 10%.
WhiteWave-Alpro closed out a strong year with another solid quarter of top and bottom line growth.
In total fourth quarter WhiteWave-Alpro net sales grew 6% over the prior year to $559 million driven by solid growth in creamers and plant-based beverages.
WhiteWave's creamer business consisting of International Delight and Land O'Lakes creamers maintained strong momentum in Q4 with net sales increasing high-single digits.
Our seasonal flavors and our co-branded American favorites varieties including Almond Joy and Cinnabon were particularly strong in Q4.
We're currently in the process of launching a new lineup of International Delight Iced Coffee beverages.
Initial acceptance and consumer reaction has been encouraging and we expect this to be an area of solid growth for the International Delight brand as we invest to develop a new refrigerated category.
Once we've gained appropriate distribution we'll spend to support the launch particularly in late Q1 and in Q2 of this year.
As expected Horizon Organic sales slowed during the quarter due to industry-wide shortages of organic milk.
Tight organic farming margins difficult summer weather in 2011 and high conventional milk prices combined to limit organic milk production in the back half of 2011.
As a result Q4 sales were flat compared to the same period last year.
To support our network of farmers we increased pay prices for organic milk during Q1 of 2012 and reflected these increased costs in our selling prices.
Despite these efforts we continue to expect sales growth to remain constrained by supply throughout 2012.
Our Silk product line of plant-based beverages also finished the year in solid fashion.
The brand posted mid-single digit growth with particular strength in Silk PureAlmond.
We will continue to drive growth in the category with a pipeline of plant-based beverage innovations including the current launch of Silk Fruit&amp;Protein.
Silk Fruit&amp;Protein combines the natural protein of soy with the taste and added nutrition of fruit to offer consumers an all-around healthy and delicious beverage choice.
Early sell-in in response to this new offering is in line with our expectations.
Alpro net sales increased mid-single digits before and after currency conversion even as the European economy continues to constrain consumers particularly in the southern part of the continent.
Drawing on our experience with Silk PureAlmond in the United States Alpro will expand its plant-based beverage lineup into almond and hazelnut drinks in the first half of 2012 which should expand the category and offer European consumers more choices in plant-based beverages and foods.
Spending to support this launch will reduce profit at Alpro in the first half of 2012.
WhiteWave and Alpro finished a strong year in Q4 with operating income growth of 17% but we continue to invest for the future.
For the fourth quarter WhiteWave-Alpro operating income was $59 million the highest in our history.
Our largest segment Fresh Dairy Direct is focused on winning in the fluid milk category with the lowest cost position offering superior customer service through one of the country's largest refrigerated DSD networks.
Total 2011 segment sales were $9.6 billion.
The segment is primarily a fluid milk business.
On a net sales basis fluid milk accounted for 74% of 2011 FDD sales.
Another 10% of sales consisted of cultured dairy and creamer products.
9% of FDD volume is ice cream and novelties and there is a modest amount of juice tea water and other distributed products.
Our Fresh Dairy Direct business platform has struggled since late 2009 with weak industry volumes competitive pricing pressures and highly inflationary commodities.
In the last year we've taken a number of significant steps to improve the performance of FDD.
These steps streamlined our list of initiatives and focused on 3 core areas: reducing cost pricing to cover inflation and driving volume through new business wins.
Execution in these areas has been essential to help offset the headwinds facing FDD although we still have work to do.
As expected the Class I raw milk price declined in Q4 after marching inexorably to historic highs during the first 9 months of the year.
The Q4 Class I average was $18.83 per hundredweight a 12% sequential decline.
Raw milk price declines are generally favorable for the performance of the business and gross margin per gallon improved slightly from Q3 as a result.
The gap between our brands and private label narrowed during Q4 as retailers did not fully reflect the raw milk price declines in their prices on shelf.
As a result the margin over milk rebounded to its highest level since mid-2009.
This restored some of the margin that retailers had invested in the private label milk category in an effort to drive traffic over the last couple of years.
Increasing retailer margins are both good and bad for the category and our business.
On the plus side the higher private label retails helped to restore the historical price relationship between our brands and private label making our brands more competitive.
On the negative side because milk prices remain at historical highs the restoring of retailer margins mean consumers aren't seeing the full benefit of lower raw milk cost on shelf which has a negative impact on category volumes.
Category volumes remained weak in Q4.
The fluid milk categories posted declining volumes for 8 consecutive quarters going back to 2009 when both raw milk prices and retail margins were at historic lows.
In the fourth quarter category volumes were down approximately 2.4% a deterioration of recent trends.
With the benefit of new volume obtained over the past year we again outperformed the industry.
Dean fluid milk volumes declined 1.5% in the quarter.
However when adjusted for the divestiture of the Waukesha Wisconsin facility in Q3 our Q4 fluid milk volume was essentially flat on a year-over-year basis.
We estimate the balance of the industry experienced approximately a 3% volume decline in the quarter.
Category volume declines and industry overcapacity continue to drive competitive intensity at the wholesale level.
However despite soft volumes favorable commodity price movements and our efforts to reduce cost helped Fresh Dairy Direct limit gross profit decline to just 1% in the quarter.
Below the gross profit line our efforts to reduce cost across the business in particular in SG&amp;A drove significant year-over-year benefit.
While higher fuel cost led to a $9 million increase in FDD distribution expense our cost-control efforts in SG&amp;A more than offset this increase to deliver a net $17 million decline in total operating expenses.
As a result Fresh Dairy Direct operating profit was $99 million in the fourth quarter 11% above a year ago results marking the first profit growth at FDD since Q3 of 2009.
Looking ahead we remain concerned about the health of the fresh milk category with volume weakness the primary issue.
With that said we feel good about the actions we've taken to reduce our cost structure and better position the business to succeed despite a challenging marketplace.
I'll now turn the call over to Shaun Mara for some additional commentary on the financials.
Shaun? Thanks Gregg.
Good morning everyone.
I'll take a few minutes now to walk through the consolidated financial performance in the quarter from a P&amp;L cash flow and debt perspective.
Starting with the P&amp;L consolidated gross profit of $766 million was $9 million above the year ago quarter driven by WhiteWave-Alpro gross profit growth of $19 million partially offset by gross margin declines due to volume softness at Fresh Dairy Direct and divestiture impacts at Morningstar.
Distribution expense was a notable headwind once again in the quarter up 5% over the same quarter a year ago as higher fuel costs continue to pose a challenge.
However our initiatives to reduce SG&amp;A cost resulted in a significant decline with Q4 costs down $32 million or 11% below year ago levels.
The improvement in gross profit and our sharp focus on reducing SG&amp;A expense more than offset higher distribution cost to yield a 21% growth in consolidated operating income to $135 million.
Below operating income interest expense declined $4 million from the year ago period to $60 million as a result of continued debt reduction.
Also as expected our quarterly income tax rate came in at 33% bringing our full year rate to 34%.
The full year rate was lower than our historical average rate largely due to the mix of domestic and foreign income and the favorable noncash settlement of a tax examination.
For 2012 we expect our mix of domestic and foreign income should result in a tax rate of 36% to 38%.
Net income of $51 million resulted in fourth quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.27 an 80% increase from a year ago.
Turning now to the cash flow and balance sheet total net debt decreased by $92 million during the quarter to $3.65 billion.
Q4 debt paydown was supported by stronger operating results and the positive impact of declining commodities on working capital offset by capital spending of $110 million and cash interest payments of $78 million.
For the full year total capital expenditures were $326 million representing a $24 million increase versus the prior year.
The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by the $84 million of spend on the new WhiteWave manufacturing facility here in Dallas Texas.
Full year free cash flow totaled $123 million.
With the added cash provided by divestitures we successfully reduced our net debt outstanding by $324 million in 2011.
Our leverage ratio of funded debt-to-EBITDA as defined by our credit agreements continues to decline.
As we stated earlier in the year our goal was to reduce our leverage to below 4.75x by year end.
We achieved this ending the year at 4.64x.
This is more than a full turn below our current maximum covenant of 5.75x and also well below the step-down to 5.5x at the end of Q1 2012.
We anticipate our leverage ratio will be approximately 4.5x at the end of the first quarter.
We remain comfortable with a cushion available under our covenants and we will continue to focus on leverage reduction in 2012.
All in the fourth quarter was very successful from an operating income EPS cash flow and debt reduction perspective.
Before I turn it back over to Gregg for our thoughts on the forward outlook I'd like to take a look at 2011 on a full year basis and some of the challenges we faced coming into the year as well as our performance against them.
I think it provides important context as we look ahead to 2012.
Although all of our businesses faced challenges entering 2011 the headwinds our Fresh Dairy Direct business faced were particularly daunting.
As a reminder 2010 was a difficult year for FDD with a 36% decline in operating income.
In addition FDD entered 2011 with 4 major challenges: first volumes across the fluid milk category remained weak; second we faced continuing inflation across key commodities; third price concessions given over the course of 2010 meant difficult overlaps through the first half of the year; fourth because incentive compensation was paid well below target in 2010 2011 compensation expense was meaningfully higher.
Added to this at the Dean Foods level our comparisons were further challenged by the sale of 2 yogurt businesses in early 2011 which were dilutive to 2011 results by approximately $0.06.
We also made necessary adjustments to our debt structure including a December 2010 bond issuance and an amendment to our credit facility that effectively increased our 2011 interest expense by approximately $0.10.
Together these 2 items alone reduced our earnings base by about $0.16 from 2010's $0.80 base.
Facing these pressures we identified 3 key areas of focus for 2011: accelerating cost reduction to rightsize for the realities of the market; price realization to pass through inflationary input costs; and the acquisition of additional fluid milk volumes to offset category weakness.
To attack our cost structure we first reduced costs across the supply chain.
We completed the final leg of our $300 million cost reduction program by achieving over $125 million in 2011 savings across procurement distribution and manufacturing.
In addition we increased the focus and urgency behind SG&amp;A cost reduction and successfully lowered SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive comp by over $70 million on a year-over-year basis and by an even greater amount on a run rate basis coming out of Q4.
Our second key area of focus was on pricing to effectively pass through commodity inflation.
We worked to improve our pricing protocols and processes to ensure inflationary commodities were effectively passed through resulting in a 2% increase in full year Fresh Dairy Direct gross margin per gallon.
And finally we focused on offsetting industry volume weakness through obtaining incremental sales volume.
We added more than 55 million annual gallons to our fluid milk operations to help offset the industry weaknesses.
These efforts helped offset the headwinds facing our fluid milk business and supported by the continuing growth in Morningstar and WhiteWave-Alpro led to a full year consolidated operating income that declined less than 2% from the prior year.
Full year 2011 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.77 is $0.03 below 2010's reported results but $0.13 or 20% above the 2010 result when normalized for yogurt divestiture and Q4 bond issuance.
While challenges still remain as we look ahead to 2012 several of the headwinds we faced a year ago are less daunting.
Our plans are built on current dairy commodity forecasts that are neutral to slightly favorable the additional volume we obtained last year will help offset ongoing category weakness and finally our aggressive cost reduction across the business throughout 2011 and early 2012 have better positioned the business for success.
With that I will turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on the forward outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Thank you Shaun.
Looking ahead we're cautiously optimistic as we enter 2012.
Our biggest concerns are continued fluid milk category volume weakness and industry pricing pressures.
Our 2012 plans assume flat FDD volume excluding the impact of divestitures.
Additional category weakness would introduce incremental risks to our plan.
However we believe our actions to significantly reduce supply chain and overhead costs and to simplify the FDD organization have positioned the business to stabilize and compete effectively in a challenging marketplace.
Our current 2012 forecast for raw milk costs suggests a more stable commodity environment than in recent periods.
Following a decline in Q1 we expect relatively flat raw milk cost for the balance of the year.
Any significant raw milk cost inflation from current forecasts would present a challenge for our outlook.
Based on our current assumptions and visibility we expect 2012 operating income growth for Fresh Dairy Direct to be in the low- to mid-single digits.
For WhiteWave-Alpro we expect continued strong top line performance from coffee creamers and beverages and plant-based foods as we build on our current momentum with additional investment in brand-building and innovation.
We expect Horizon milk sales to be soft through much of the year as the industry works through short supplies of organic raw milk.
All in including a negative currency impact we expect solid mid-single digit top line growth at WhiteWave-Alpro in 2012.
At the WhiteWave-Alpro operating income line we expect another solid full year performance.
On a quarterly basis operating income growth is expected to be heavily weighted to the back half of the year.
Startup costs for the new Dallas manufacturing facility and the launch costs of International Delight Iced Coffee Silk Fruit&amp;Protein and Alpro's new plant-based beverages will pressure first half profits.
The incremental investment behind these product launches will likely result in flat operating income performance through the first half of the year.
We expect very strong operating income performance for WhiteWave-Alpro in the back half and full year operating income growth in the high-single to low-double digits again.
Morningstar enters 2012 with good momentum and we expect solid underlying volume and operating income growth for the business this year.
However growth will be somewhat offset in the first half by the overlap of last year's Q2 yogurt divestiture.
All in on a reported basis we expect mid-single digit 2012 operating income growth at Morningstar.
Corporate costs will provide a tailwind as SG&amp;A cost reductions taken in the latter part of 2011 and in early 2012 drive year-over-year expense favorability.
Adding it all up we expect full year consolidated operating income growth to be in the high-single to low-double digits.
With continued debt reduction a priority we expect further declines in leverage and interest expense in 2012.
For the full year we estimate total interest expense will be between $233 million and $238 million and we are targeting year end 2012 leverage below 4.25x.
Weighing all of these factors we expect adjusted diluted earnings per share growth of between 13% and 24% or adjusted diluted earnings of between $0.87 and $0.95 per share.
We expect full year capital spending of between $250 million and $275 million.
For the first quarter we expect relatively flat Fresh Dairy Direct and WhiteWave-Alpro operating income to be offset by stronger Morningstar results and lower corporate costs to yield adjusted diluted earnings of between $0.18 and $0.23 per share.
In summary the fourth quarter was an important milestone for Dean Foods.
WhiteWave-Alpro and Morningstar closed out very successful years and Fresh Dairy Direct delivered year-over-year profit growth.
Consolidated adjusted operating income and adjusted diluted earnings per share growth were strong for the business.
Debt and leverage continued to decline and we once again met our guidance commitments to our shareholders.
As we enter 2012 with momentum behind both WhiteWave-Alpro and Morningstar and Fresh Dairy Direct continues to stabilize we expect a solid year.
We expect solid adjusted operating income and EPS growth and continued debt and leverage declines during this year while we continue to drive further improvements in the business.
With that I'll conclude our prepared remarks and ask the operator to open the line for your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  We'll go first to Judy with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just a few questions Gregg.
First on the volume side obviously that seems to be an issue if you look at the measured channel data or obviously some of the risks that you've called out.
So can you just give us some perspective on your flat volume guidance how much do you think that you need to see the industry get better how much of that could come from the retailers basically passing through the lower milk cost to consumers? And to the extent that there is downside risk to volume how much flex do you have in your P&amp;L to achieve your guidance for 2012? So those are all good questions.
First of all we're calling our volume flat.
We're not calling the category flat.
We think the category in all likelihood will continue to decline although we expect the declines to moderate from Q4 levels.
So what's driving our flat volume call for Dean is really a number of things.
First of all it's just simply the overlap in 2012 of volume that we picked up and share that we picked up through the year in 2011.
So not all of that volume is in 2011.
It came on throughout the year.
So we'll get the benefit in the first part of the year of lapping the acquisition of that volume.
Secondly milk prices are coming down.
We expect them to continue to come down at least through the first quarter.
And even if retailers now hold the margin that they've built back in the category prices will come down at retail.
And we expect there to be as there historically has been some elasticity effect of consumers coming back and finding more value in milk particularly as we see other food commodities staying relatively high.
So we expect the milk industry to benefit by picking up a little bit of volume.
And then we've got some underlying signs of economic strength and employment growth and clearly the consumer particularly at the lower end has taken the brunt of this last recession.
And as they begin to go back to work and have income growth we expect to see their purchases and expenditures in our category improve.
So those are really the factors that go into our expectation of a better volume environment for Dean Foods in 2012 than in 2011 at FDD.
In terms of how much flex there is you can look at the P&amp;L in FDD and see that there's not just a lot of flex in it because there's not just a lot of margin in it.
So our call on Dean are pretty dependent upon price and volume.
At FDD at least you don't have the kind of levers to pull that you have in a traditional CPG business where you have marketing and trade and lots of other things that you can pull when the basics of volume and price start to work against you.
So we made that call out specifically in the script that price and volume would be important to delivering 2012's guidance in FDD for specifically that reason.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the commodity side so clearly the Class I Mover has trended down in the last few months.
What about some of the non-raw milk cost components? Obviously in 2011 those were also a big hurdle for you guys.
So in terms of packaging fuel can you talk about how those are looking for 2012? They're still pretty inflationary.
So we expect the diesel price to be up from the average price that we paid in 2011 and plastic resin has continued to be a highly inflationary commodity in the U.S.
as U.S.
manufacturers export their product out and around the world given our low feedstock prices here in the U.S.
So not a lot of relief in those areas.
And frankly we have to continue to get better at pricing for those inputs in order to sustain the FDD algorithm over time.
That's an area where we lost ground in 2011 and we need to get better at pricing to cover non-milk inputs as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that that gap will get better in 2012? I think they'll be less inflationary in 2012 than they were in 2011 but frankly in our algorithm those are still called to be a headwind as opposed to a tailwind but less so.
We'll take our next question from Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg the tone of the call seems that much more positive this quarter relative to what we have seen in the last 2 quarters.
Do you think the worst is behind us? Milk prices are moderating.
Your plans are running at a good play.
Cost savings are accelerating.
How do you -- I see the guidance.
How do you really -- the underlying business do you think the worst is behind us at this point? We're giving guidance now for 2012 and over the time horizon as we can see it for 2012 we feel better about the overall conditions in the industry.
So the economy's improving.
Disposable income is going up for people.
Commodity prices are coming down.
All of those things should benefit volume and be a more benign competitive environment for the business.
But I just want to make a point explicitly that this is a 2012 call.
I think when you look out over the longer term and you don't have to listen to my call you can just turn on CNBC in the morning and listen to them I think there are still significant structural issues globally that have to be worked through that could lead to significant commodity cost inflation over time.
And as we've seen over the last 2.5 years that is a very challenging environment for our FDD business.
So feel pretty good about the outlook for 2012.
Beyond that I'm not prepared to make a long-term declaration of victory that the issues that have challenged the business are gone.
Okay.
And on sort of modeling side of the business Shaun what was the run rate of SG&amp;A savings as we exited the fourth quarter? I think if we look at 2012 we're targeting about $100 million in total cost savings which includes both supply chain as well as SG&amp;A.
I think the SG&amp;A makeup of that will probably be a higher percentage than we've seen in the past but we're still targeting to get cost reductions in 2012 above what we have in 2011.
And that's including inflation and diesel and resin that Gregg talked about? Those are cost savings specifically on reductions we're having within the factory within procurement and then within SG&amp;A.
But they will be offset to some degree by inflation to the extent we don't recover it in price.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of your cost savings targets Gregg you've now achieved that $300 million that you've been targeting as well for SG&amp;A that $100 million incremental is that incremental? And kind of going forward how should we think about your cost savings actions at the company? Well first of all the $300 million program is finished out.
We're not announcing a new program.
What Shaun did say in response to Amit's question is we expect another $100 million of savings in our plan for 2012 so there are ongoing cost-saving opportunities.
But as you can see from our guidance with respect to capital spending they're going to be more driven by tight expense SG&amp;A management very targeted sort of rapid-payback types of capital expenditures and less sweeping efforts to remake our network over time.
We just don't believe that the business fundamentally with the soft volume environment frankly merits the level of capital investment that we've made over the last few years to drive things like network optimization.
So we'll have to see how that plays out over time and how the volume trends for the category evolve.
We expect ongoing opportunities to take costs out of the business beyond 2012 but we'll have to see what the portfolio of those opportunities looks like as we go through 2012 and assess the environment on an ongoing basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up on that given your sort of more moderate CapEx investments on these sweeping changes in 2012 what would you expect your debt reduction target to be and what would be the interest expense on that? In 2012? I'll kick that over to Shaun.
The interest expense guidance contemplates our debt paydown throughout the year that we gave you of $233 million to $238 million.
Now we expect pretty significant debt paydown as we go through this year.
And Shaun you may want to...
It's about $230 million we're assuming for debt paydown this year.
We'll take our next question from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I move to Horizon on the WhiteWave side? I think it was in 2008 there was a supply constraint issue back then as well and it caused a pretty big downturn in Horizon's profitability if I remember.
What did you learn from that experience and how confident can you be that you're not going to end up in the same kind of situation this time around? Well actually the situation in 2007 and 2008 was an enormous supply surplus rather than a supply shortfall.
And I can tell you we absolutely learned the lesson then that excess organic milk is a lot worse than a shortage of organic milk for us because as you'll recall the result of the surplus is that we bought that milk at organic prices because we had commitments with our farmers to take their supply and then we sold it at much lower conventional prices.
And that was in the short run a very negative situation for our P&amp;L.
Here we're short supply.
We're short supply for a number of reasons.
First of all we had terrible hot weather last summer.
That will reverse itself out this year.
But more enduring reasons are very high prices for organic feed which given the price environment for organic raw milk caused farmers to cut back on feed to their animals which resulted in lower production.
We've moved to address that issue with higher pay prices this year that we mentioned on the call.
And then frankly the exceptionally high conventional milk prices of last year induced a number of what I would call marginally profitable organic milk producers to convert back to conventional and take advantage of the margins in the conventional milk marketplace.
That milk's not coming back anytime soon.
So we think that through 2012 we'll rebuild supply and get back towards a more balanced situation.
But frankly in response to higher pay prices and the shortage of supply the industry pretty much has taken price at retail.
So you'll see higher retails in Horizon Organic.
So it's not a perfect situation.
There's a robust amount of demand that remains out there for organic milk in the consumer marketplace.
We'd love as a brand and as an industry to be able to satisfy all of that demand.
That's going to be a challenge this year.
But we're moving the industry back towards a better supply-demand balance throughout 2012 and we feel okay about Horizon at least at this point in time in the year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a real quick follow-up what do you envisage as the new run rate on corporate cost? I mean you've talked about it coming down a little bit more at the beginning of 2012.
Is there a number you can give us that we could be using? Yes Alexia there's a lot of geography that changes from time to time in corporate cost.
So I really would point you to the SG&amp;A line as the place where you can see aggregate SG&amp;A in the business and see what the true reductions have been in the cost base of the company.
I don't know if Shaun can give you a number here or if we need to follow up offline.
I think if you look at SG&amp;A for the fourth quarter of last year or this year it was $264 million.
We'll probably track slightly below that in each of the quarters through 2012.
So closer to $257 million $258 million.
We'll take our next question from Reza Vahabzadeh with Barclays Capital.
Gregg do you see any encouraging signs that milk margins in the FDD business is near stabilization rate? I know you've seen some improvement lately but as far as capacity and demand is there any sign to -- makes you more comfortable around stability of milk margins going forward than the last 2 years? Reza the fundamental challenges that the industry has faced really haven't been resolved right? So you have soft and declining volumes and you have not seen a lot of capacity leave the industry.
I think what's different this year than say the 2010 2011 period is that with the raw commodity coming down there's just less pressure on the whole system in terms of margin.
So retail prices can come down.
Retailer margins can expand and that takes a little bit of pressure off of the processor side of the business.
So it's overall a healthier marketplace given the price action of the raw commodity but the fundamental challenges of soft volumes and excess capacity remain.
That's probably the best characterization I can give you of the state of the industry.
Got it.
And then would you anticipate retailers eventually at some point in time passing through the lower wholesale prices on to the customers? I would think so.
If you look at the chart that was in our slides today of the private label margin over milk you see that that margin really is -- it's rebuild -- it's rebuilding back to that $1.60 $1.70 level.
That's sort of the historically natural level for that margin.
I don't guess in this environment you'll see retailers try and push above that.
That's just a guess.
But that's -- historically they have not done that.
The reason it was so much above that in 2009 is frankly because the price of milk fell so precipitously in the early part of the year.
It fell over $5 a hundredweight in one month.
So you're not going to see that kind of declines here.
So I think you're seeing the retail margins rebuild and my guess is you won't see them push much beyond this.
We'll take our next question from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you on -- so a bit of a follow-up to the earlier question on the pricing at retail.
So you mentioned that we're seeing that sort of recovery in the private label over the raw milk kind of spread.
Do you anticipate therefore if we can hold at that level that prices at retail would now going forward in theory reflect any change in the raw milk price? So we've rebuilt that spread but now we should probably see those 2 correlate then going forward as raw milk say goes down with -- likely go down at retail? Yes that's exactly what I would expect.
That's what the historical pattern's been.
Maybe its lagged a little bit just as prices worked their way through the system but that's what you typically see and I would be surprised if it were different this time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just was curious about the measured channel versus non-measured channel performance in the quarter or as you see it going forward.
Clearly the data has been very weak for volume if you look at IRI or Nielsen but not as bad of course given your reported results or the USDA results.
Is that channel shift -- can you tell us kind of where it's going and how Dean fares in that shift? Well obviously we fare well because we're doing better in the non-measured channel -- in the aggregate data than we are at retail though the whole industry is.
So look the milk goes really across the food and beverage industry in the U.S.
So about 8% of milk goes into schools.
That's a pretty stable base of demand.
So while you see retails going down you haven't seen school net volumes decline anywhere near as much as happening at retail because of the nature of that program.
So that is a natural buoyancy device for the category.
And then of course this is no surprise to anybody.
You've seen the entry of a lot of nontraditional retailers into grocery whether that be club stores entering the grocery channel or sort of the dollar limited-assortment store universe entering grocery.
And those are places that are sourcing volume from the traditional grocery environment.
So it's no surprise with the development of alternative channel shopping that you're seeing the grocery channel itself struggle with volume right? That shouldn't be a surprise to anybody.
I will point out that while we're pleased to be doing well in those alternative channels the fact of the matter is we're still as an industry and as a company selling less milk than we were before and with the emergence of all these alternative outlets I'm driving to more points of distribution than I was before against less volume.
So when you go through and you start parsing through the distribution line in our P&amp;L you'll see that over the last 2 or 3 years it's been a persistent challenge for us.
Part of that's input cost.
Part of it is miles driven by our need to go to more stops to deliver the same or a smaller amount of milk.
And that's something that over time this industry's going to have to price for better.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then the last question I have for you is just like kind of the brand versus private label performance.
Can you give us how that fared in the fourth quarter? And then given the narrowing of price gaps I assume you expect a little better branded performance in 2012? Yes the branded environment generally outperformed at least compared to recent quarters in Q4 as the spread widened.
We still have some brands that are out of value and that's an issue that we've got to fight through in 2012.
We have brands that are deeply in value and they perform even relatively better than the brands that are out of value.
But where we have big price spreads and high relative price points we're still suffering branded volume declines and our mix is moving more towards private label.
That's a headwind.
Again I think I would characterize our point of view on that as it will be less of a headwind in 2012 than it was in 2011.
We'll take our next question from Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Actually I had a question on FDD.
It sounds like you're looking for some margin improvement this year.
I was just wondering how much of that was driven by a decline in milk prices versus mix improvement versus structural initiatives that are happening at Dean in 2012.
The biggest driver is cost takeout.
The second biggest driver is just the natural margin expansion you get as the price of the commodity comes down.
And then mix I would say is again less of a headwind but not a help in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of -- I know some of your customers are closing some stores.
I think [indiscernible] has closed some stores.
I think that was some of your -- I think one of your big contracts this year.
Is there an impact from that on your volumes going forward? Yes of course it is on a market-by-market basis and a customer-by-customer basis.
But I think the best way to think about it is that milk's going to get bought somewhere.
And given our share we're going to by and large sell the milk.
It may go through a different customer a different outlet with a different cost or margin structure but by and large those store closings will result in higher volume in other outlets we serve.
And so it's not a good thing.
On the other hand it's not as linear as it might seem on first blush.
We'll take our next question from Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to I guess follow up on what -- you continue to take share and what gives you the confidence that -- your competitors have reached a point where they're going to get a little bit more rational and then they're not going to chase this sort of lower commodity cost environment downward.
It seems I mean -- you can look at historical numbers and feel real comfortable with that versus where your margins are versus your average right? But I've been doing that exercise for a while and we've kind of blown through the bottom of what looks like was possible.
So what gives you the confidence now to say okay we're feeling pretty good about our competitors are being a little bit more rational so we can tell you that we're going to keep this margin going through 2012 [indiscernible]? Again Id go back to the answer I gave to a question earlier which is what really gives me confidence today is that we have a market of declining milk prices that just puts less pressure on the whole system right? So everybody can feel better about the whirlwind.
Retail milk prices are going down the retailers restoring some of the margin that they gave up in the recession.
Everybody is getting something here.
When the price is going down there's less pressure on the system.
But fundamentally volumes got to stop going down in the category to lessen the natural empathies of people to chase volume right? And so I'm not declaring victory here.
I just want to be perfectly clear.
2012 is going to be better unless the commodity outlook that we've outlined is significantly wrong.
But fundamentally there's still way too much capacity in this industry and when the pressure gets turned back up on the industry as it inevitably will that's going to manifest itself in declining margins unless that capacity gets rationalized out of the system.
Research Division</strong> That makes perfect sense.
And if I just could follow up in that vein the move from traditional to nontraditional retailers you cited I mean to me that's been a huge part of Dean's success over the past 10 or 15 years given 2 of the 3 largest traditional retail chains are captives -- own captive dairy suppliers.
Do you feel like Deans getting a little boost from that -- maybe that accelerant? [ph] Its clearly that acceleration we're seeing to nontraditional retailers where I think you guys compete a little bit more favorably.
You know on balance it may be a slight positive.
But we've got a portfolio of retailers including a bunch of traditional grocers.
And weve got some that are winning and some that are losing like you would in any portfolio of customers.
So it's hard for me to really make a broad statement.
What I do agree with your basic proposition is -- I think we over indexed in customers in nontraditional channels.
What I'm not so confident of without doing a bunch of research on it is how the business in the corpus of grocery how share has shaken out there on a relative basis.
That might offset the benefit I've gotten in non-measured channels.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I had a question about how you're showing Morningstar as a separate entity now.
Are you considering the strategic role of Morningstar any differently in the portfolio? Would you consider an asset sale? And then secondly just in terms of your capital structure with the company doing better the stock doing better would you consider the possibility of an equity offering to kind of supercharge your capital structure de-leveraging it further? As to the role of Morningstar this is a business that has been hidden within a broader segment really the entire time that we've owned it.
But it's a significant business.
It's $1.3 billion in sales.
And it is in categories and product lines that we think long term have a bright future.
So just to illuminate Morningstar a little bit more all of the products that Morningstar makes and sells are extended shelf life products and therefore virtually all of them go through the warehouse channel.
They're warehouse-distributed.
So it's quite different from FDD and we see over time a continuing migration of products away from the more expensive DSD distribution system and into the warehouse where the economics support them.
And Morningstar is benefiting from that trend right the migration of products from shorter shelf life DSD-distributed to longer shelf life warehouse-distributed.
And they're also in a number of categories where frankly you can invest to innovate and we're seeing -- and we'll be talking about in the future I'm sure more extensively significant innovation in the Morningstar business.
So when you strip away all the puts and takes of Morningstar a business that had operating income growth of 15% in 2010 9% in 2011 we're saying mid- towards single digit operating income growth this year it's a business that has great prospects and we're very excited about.
So we didn't separate out the segments to signal that we were going to sell the business.
We have no intention of it.
We like the business.
It's a great fit in our portfolio.
We separated out the segments because that was the right answer from an accounting and reporting perspective given the way that we view the business internally.
But it's a business that we're really excited about and that we think over time that the investment community will come to appreciate the value of the business.
It's private label and foodservice.
It's my guess would be probably the largest refrigerated private label and foodservice company in this space.
So it's benefiting from the trends of the migration towards private labels in the retail space and towards the QSR space in particular.
So it's a very well-positioned business.
As to the issue of whether or not we're going to do an equity offering to reduce the capital structure look this business is de-levering pretty nicely right now.
I think that would be precisely the wrong thing to do from the perspective of shareholder value to go out today and raise equity.
So we like the plot for the coming quarters in terms of what's going to happen with our balance sheet.
And we're going to continue down the path towards de-leveraging in a natural way rather than going out and tapping the equity markets to de-lever our balance sheet in one fell swoop.
We'll take our final question from Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the fluid milk a lot and I'm just wondering you've been able to gain some volumes and offset the overall category decline.
Are there further opportunities there or would you start to run up against I guess antitrust if you really started to add more volumes there? No I think we can take as much volume in the marketplace as we want to take right? We're just competing with the other players in the marketplace.
What we can't do I don't think is make any significant acquisitions in this space but I don't think that's a new answer for anybody.
So we're taking share because of the value proposition that we offer to our customers and we're going to keep driving against that.
And we think we're the natural winner in this space right? We're the only company with real national network.
We've got the lowest cost structure in the industry in terms of conversion and distribution.
Our size and scale give us natural advantages and I think you've seen that over the years play out in steady share gains within the category and we hope to continue that track record of success.
The other thing that we hope happens and we've called this out a couple of times is we hope and believe that the category is going to get better on a relative basis in 2012 versus 2011.
So at a minimum we expect the rate of decline of the category to decline as the price of milk goes down.
So we feel again as we said in the prepared remarks cautiously optimistic about the outlook for FDD.
But with all of the caveats that we've given in the prepared remarks and in response to people's questions there's still the underlying challenges of declining volume in the category.
Research Division</strong> So the 55 million gallons that you added this year is that a good target to say how much you might be able to add annually or is that a high bar? I think that -- I don't think we'll make a specific volume call in terms of business that we're going to add.
What we have said is we're calling flat volumes in FDD against the category that we expect to decline albeit decline at a slower rate than it did in 2011.
So that implies we expect to continue to take share.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one clarification question.
The new Iced Coffee International Delight beverage where does that go in the store? And if it's a new category where does it fit in? It's a refrigerated product.
It will go in different places in different stores but by and large either in the creamer category or in the specialty milks category.
And it's a fantastic product.
I would encourage you to go try it.
It is a product to offer you in your home the same iced coffee experience that you would get at a coffee house if you were to go out and drive through.
It's a absolutely fantastic product and it's off to a pretty good start.
So we're excited about it.
Research Division</strong> And is it fully rolled out now or what was the time frame of the rollout? When did it begin and when did it get fully in place -- or when will it be fully in place? We started shipping in late Q4 so we're really just building ACV.
We won't turn on any advertising or marketing until late Q1 or early Q2.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Engles for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and we look forward to speaking to you again on our Q1 earnings call in early May.
Thank you all very much.
This concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Dean Foods Company First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Catherine and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for our first quarter earnings conference call.
We issued an earnings press release this morning which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The release is also filed as an Exhibit to a Form 8-K available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
The earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided today are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude the expenses related to facility closings and reorganizations expenses related to asset writedowns expenses related to litigation matters gains or losses from the divestiture of assets or other nonrecurring items in order to enable you to make a meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods.
The earnings release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated result along with a reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding our branding initiatives expected cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and in today's press release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Engles our Chairman and CEO; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off by providing a review of the results and business environment.
Following Gregg Shaun will offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and closing remarks.
We will then open the call for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
Today we announced strong Q1 results driven by stronger-than-forecasted growth across each of our 3 operating segments and supported by tight expense control across the business.
As a result consolidated adjusted operating income increased 42% above year-ago levels.
Our financial performance was further bolstered by declining interest expense resulting in Q1 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.31 more than double the previous year and the sixth straight quarter we've delivered EPS at or above our guidance.
As you know our business is comprised of 3 distinct operating platforms each with differentiated strategies and capabilities.
In Q1 each of our 3 platforms executed well against their plans and delivered strong results.
At WhiteWave-Alpro strong category growth and heavier investment in brand building marketing and product innovation drove sales and profit growth ahead of our expectations.
Net sales increased 13% and our continued focus on efficiency delivered 31% growth in segment operating income.
We posted this strong growth despite weaker year-over-year performance at Alpro our European branded business.
At Fresh Dairy Direct our focus on the fundamentals of volume cost efficiency and effective price realization together with a favorable dairy commodity environment led to volume outperformance versus the industry and 18% Q1 operating income growth.
And finally at Morningstar we achieved continued success through strong innovation for our customers and unique product manufacturing capabilities.
This combination drove 16% core volume growth and 13% operating income growth for the quarter despite our sale last year of Morningstar's yogurt business.
While we are not prepared to declare that our recent challenges are completely behind us we are pleased that our strong actions to control costs over the past several quarters our focus on the fundamentals at FDD and our continued investments in WhiteWave-Alpro are currently bearing fruit.
Our entire team has made enormous contributions to turning around this business and I would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge all of their hard work and thank them for their contributions to deliver these strong results.
With that overview let's now look at the segment results in a bit more detail beginning with WhiteWave-Alpro.
At WhiteWave-Alpro our focus is on driving growth across our portfolio of brands through category-leading innovation marketing and brand building.
We couple that mindset with a strong culture of expense control to deliver operating income growth that we hope is well ahead of sales growth.
This was particularly true in the first quarter.
In total first quarter WhiteWave-Alpro net sales grew 13% over the prior year to $571 million the highest quarterly sales in our history.
Our categories are robust and we continue to be the driver of category growth through brand building marketing and innovation.
Results were further bolstered by the introduction of new products in the Coffee Creamers and Beverages and Plant-based Beverages categories in Q1.
We saw particular strength in Q1 in our Coffee Creamers and Branded Beverages platform as our core product sales accelerated behind strong marketing support.
This solid sales growth was augmented by the introduction of our new International Delight Iced Coffee product in Q1.
The Coffee Creamers and Beverages platform includes coffee creamers under the International Delight Land O'Lakes Horizon and Silk brands.
Aided by a solid category Q1 was strong in our Creamers business.
International Delight Iced Coffee is the newest addition to this product platform.
Although it's early in the launch in fact we really only started marketing these products in earnest in late Q1 the new products are off to a better-than-expected start and initial retailer and consumer acceptance has been encouraging.
We expect these new products to be solid contributors to growth this year.
For Q1 strong core SKU performance coupled with our iced coffee launch resulted in a net sales increase of over 20% in the Coffee Creamers and Beverages platform.
Momentum also accelerated in Plant-based Beverages in Q1.
Stepped-up investment and marketing support over the past 2 quarters has helped to raise category growth rate.
During Q1 Silk PureAlmond sales accelerated and Silk Soy returned to growth.
The launch of Silk Fruit&amp;Protein also contributed to sales growth in the quarter.
Overall Plant-based Beverages grew over 20% in Q1.
Turning to our Value-Added Dairy product platform.
We had anticipated that tight organic milk supply would result in flat Q1 net sales.
However the mild winter resulted in higher-than-expected raw organic milk production.
We also raised prices to offset an increase in the price we pay our family farmers.
And as a result Q1 net sales for Value-Added Dairy increased mid-single-digits.
On a euro basis Alpro net sales increased mid-single-digits in the quarter even as the European economy continues to struggle.
After currency conversion Alpro net sales were essentially flat in the quarter.
As you would expect Alpro sales growth varied significantly by region largely reflecting the economic conditions of the individual countries in which we operate.
Generally we continue to see stronger results in northern Europe offset by continued challenges in the south.
Drawing upon the success of our expanded Silk product line we launched Alpro Almond and Hazelnut Drinks in select European markets beginning in Q1 of this year.
As we discussed on last quarter's call spending to support this launch will reduce Alpro's profit contribution throughout 2012.
As I mentioned strong growth across our product categories and our sharp focus on efficiency drove WhiteWave-Alpro operating results to $60 million in the quarter an increase of 31% above year-ago results and the highest quarterly profit in segment history.
This performance includes significantly increased marketing investment to support our new product launches and incremental startup costs related to our new Dallas facility.
The new plant is ramping up well due to strong volume growth across WhiteWave.
So to wrap up WhiteWave-Alpro's performance in Q1 volumes were up 11% net sales increased 13% and operating income grew 31% over year-ago results.
We believe this is about as good a profit algorithm as one gets in the developed world consumer packaged goods industry these days particularly for a $2-plus billion business.
We feel very good about WhiteWave-Alpro's trajectory and we will continue to invest in innovation marketing and manufacturing infrastructure to support its robust growth.
We also produced solid results at Fresh Dairy Direct.
A more favorable commodity environment and a sharp focus on the fundamentals of the business volume performance price realization and cost efficiency drove strong year-over-year growth.
Our fluid milk volumes continued to outperform the industry in the first quarter.
Fresh Dairy Direct fluid milk volumes increased 0.4% which compares to the balance of the industry which experienced a 3% decline.
Adjusted for the Q3 2011 divestiture of our Waukesha facility FDD fluid milk volumes increased approximately 2% in Q1.
The key factor in FDD's business is the cost of Class I raw milk.
Raw milk accounts for roughly 65% of FDD's cost of goods sold.
In Q1 the Class I raw milk price continued a decline that began in the fourth quarter of 2011 averaging $17.38 per hundredweight.
This represents an 8% sequential decline but is still 6% above year-ago levels.
We expect this trend to continue in Q2 and forecast an average Class I price of approximately $15.50 an 11% sequential decline from Q1.
On a year-over-year basis this would represent a decline of greater than 20%.
We also continue to expect the Class I Mover to be relatively stable over the balance of 2012 with the possibility for modestly rising prices later in the year.
As raw milk prices declined in Q4 of 2011 and again in Q1 retailers have been slow to reflect this in their private label pricing.
The result has been an increase of more than $0.30 in the margin over milk.
This margin which measures the spread between the cost of raw milk and the retail price of private label milk is now back to levels not seen since 2009.
Favorable commodity price trends and our efficiency programs helped drive Fresh Dairy Direct gross profit to $522 million a 1% increase from the year-ago levels.
Gross profit per gallon increased 2% from a year ago an important factor in improving our overall profitability per gallon.
We also continued to focus on managing our cost structure to help drive operating profit growth.
During the quarter higher fuel costs resulted in a $9 million increase in distribution expense at FDD.
However this was more than offset by our efforts to reduce SG&amp;A which drove an $18 million decline in FDD SG&amp;A in Q1 for a total decline in FDD operating expense of $9 million.
As a result we reported the highest quarterly Fresh Dairy Direct operating profit since Q2 of 2010.
FDD operating profit totaled $101 million in Q1.
This represents an 18% increase over last year and continues the trend of year-over-year profit growth for FDD that began in Q4 of 2011.
At Morningstar we're focused on serving the needs of our foodservice and private label retail customers.
Our main products are longer shelf life creamer and culture products products such as coffee creamers ice cream mix sour cream and cottage cheese.
The bulk of our sales are to foodservice customers where we have a particularly strong business with quick-service restaurants.
These customers value our unique innovation and broad plant network of 11 facilities which provides us the ability to offer coast-to-coast service with optimized freight costs.
These attributes make Morningstar a valuable partner to our private label retail customers as well.
Normalized for the April 2011 yogurt divestiture Morningstar volume increased 16% in the quarter reflecting continued strong momentum in both the foodservice and retail channels as well as the success of new product launches with core customers.
Morningstar net sales increased mid-teens in both the away-from-home and retail channels when adjusted for the divestiture.
Core volume growth combined with a favorable commodity environment and a positive mix shift in the portfolio drove Morningstar net sales to $325 million a 5% increase from the year-ago quarter despite the divestiture of our yogurt business.
Effective price realization to mitigate the impact of volatile commodities and a strong focus on efficiency are critical to Morningstar's success.
Our first quarter results reflect solid execution in these key areas.
Despite the sale of our yogurt business last year Morningstar delivered operating income growth of 13% a $3 million increase over Q1 of 2011.
We also continue to focus on cost control at Morningstar.
Our continued network optimization efforts will result in the closure of one of our Sulphur Springs Texas plants which we announced in Q1.
So before I turn the call over to Shaun I'd like to reiterate how pleased we are with this quarter's results.
We delivered solid growth in all 3 of our operating segments and I firmly believe we're on a path for a strong year.
With that Shaun will provide you some additional commentary on the financials.
Shaun? Thanks Gregg.
Good morning everyone.
As I mentioned on the last call early last year we narrowed our objectives and began a concerted effort to focus on the few critical initiatives that would drive our success.
We refocused the business on 3 core objectives: cost reduction price realization and volume growth.
Today our Q1 results reflect the benefits of a more focused approach.
In Q1 we posted volume growth across all 3 businesses excluding the impact of divestitures.
On this basis consolidated volumes increased nearly 3% and as Gregg said our core fluid milk volumes were up 2%.
This volume growth coupled with our cost reduction activities and focus on price realization resulted in consolidated gross profit of $788 million which was 5% or $38 million above the year-ago quarter.
Below the gross profit line distribution expense was again a notable headwind up $17 million or 5% versus the prior year.
Increased distribution costs were driven by higher fuel and freight cost as well as higher volumes.
However our initiatives to fundamentally reduce SG&amp;A cost at FDD Morningstar and corporate resulted in a significant reduction in Q1 expense.
Total SG&amp;A declined $26 million to $262 million 9% below year-ago levels.
Excluding advertising and incentive compensation SG&amp;A declined $30 million from the year-ago quarter and approximately $100 million on a rolling 12-month basis.
In total increased gross profit across all operating segments and our sharp focus on reducing SG&amp;A more than offset higher distribution costs yielding 42% growth in consolidated operating income to $152 million.
This marks the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year operating profit growth for Dean Foods and our highest quarterly result since Q4 of 2009.
In addition when you look at the $45 million of operating income growth it is encouraging that over 80% of the growth was driven by improvement in gross profit.
Below the operating line our focus on debt and leverage reduction led to a $5 million decline in interest expense from the year-ago period.
We now expect full year interest expense to be in the range of $225 million to $228 million.
Net income of $57 million resulted in first quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.31 a 121% increase from a year ago.
Turning now to the cash flow and the balance sheet.
Total net debt increased by $36 million from Q4 to $3.7 billion.
This increase was largely driven by $61 million of payments related to our litigation settlement and a slight increase in working capital.
Capital spending for the quarter totaled $45 million resulting in negative free cash flow of $41 million.
We expect positive free cash flow throughout the remainder of 2012.
Despite the slight growth in debt with a strong growth in EBITDA our leverage ratio of funded debt to EBITDA as defined by our credit agreements continued to decline reaching 4.41x at quarter end.
This is more than a full term below the 5.5x covenant and nearly 3/4 of a term below where the ratio stood a year ago.
We remain comfortable with the cushion available under our covenants and we'll continue to focus on leverage reduction in 2012.
We expect total leverage to be at or below 4x by the end of the year.
By nearly every metric the first quarter was a significant step forward for Dean Foods.
Our focus on our core objectives and a more favorable commodity environment drove significant improvement in segment and consolidated results.
We are working hard to build on this track record and maintain growth in these businesses.
With that I will turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on our forward outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Thank you Shaun.
Given our significant momentum in Q1 the cautious optimism that we expressed last quarter has turned less cautious.
All 3 operating segments performed well in Q1 and we expect strong full year growth across the business.
At WhiteWave-Alpro Q1 top line growth accelerated behind strength in our core products as well as strong early consumer interest in our new product introductions.
Looking ahead we expect continued solid top and bottom line growth.
Our Dallas plant startup costs and marketing spend in support of new product launches will increase in Q2 from Q1.
Given Q1's strong performance however we expect full year WhiteWave-Alpro operating income growth to be in the high-teens.
Fresh Dairy Direct continued to outperform the industry from a volume perspective.
This combined with price realization and cost reductions resulted in strong Q1 profit growth for FDD.
Looking ahead we will continue to focus on the fundamentals of the business: volume price realization and cost reduction.
With our outlook for a relatively more stable commodity environment through 2012 we expect continued strong growth for Q2 and for the full year.
For the full year we expect low-teens operating income growth for FDD.
Morningstar's balanced business across foodservice and retail also produced solid Q1 results as we continue to partner with winning customers.
Given Morningstar's strong start we expect full year operating income growth in the mid-teens.
In light of our more favorable operating outlook our expectations for continued SG&amp;A savings and lower interest expense over the balance of the year we expect second quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.28 to $0.33.
We're also increasing our full year guidance to a range of $1.10 to $1.20 in adjusted earnings per share.
In summary momentum across the business accelerated in the first quarter with each of our businesses performing well.
We believe we've positioned the businesses to build on this track record of growth and to deliver a strong year.
We expect full year cash flow to be strong resulting in meaningful reductions in our debt and leverage throughout the year.
We believe this performance illustrates the building strength of our business and enhances our flexibility as we look to deliver superior value to our shareholders in 2012 and beyond.
And with that I'll conclude our prepared remarks and ask Catherine to open the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first go to Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> The first question I have is just regarding the Easter shift.
I mean I know we saw some companies namely Hershey's some on Kraft that benefited in Q1 Easter shifts in your products.
You could argue sort of Easter-y so to speak.
So with guidance for Q2 still somewhat and obviously exceeding current consensus it doesn't seem like there is much of a bump that you're calling out but just want to get some color on that.
Yes.
I think Easter plays a modest role in our business from a seasonality perspective particularly perhaps around the Morningstar business with its heavy whipping cream and half-and-half products.
But it's not a huge factor in our business.
And in fact when you look at how performance calendarized across the first quarter in terms of by month it wasn't driven by a late March surge to serve Easter.
It was really steadily above plan beginning sort of around the late January to February timeframe.
So really very strong throughout the quarter and it has continued very strong into Q2.
So while I won't say Easter wasn't an effect it certainly wasn't a big enough effect to call it out as a unique driver of the business.
And for FDD frankly our business has such high velocity that with Easter falling on the 8th or 9th or 10th wherever it fell in April really those sales were primarily driven in the first week of April as opposed to the end of March.
So not a big impact on our business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Perfect great to hear.
And then the second quick follow-up was just look it looks like you've essentially outperformed in each of your segments and much of the business you have deleverage as well.
So there are a number of drivers boosting EPS growth.
But from Q1 from your perspective I guess what were the 1 or 2 or 3 results that came in that really surprised you? Was it just there was a lot more volume growth than you actually really expected? Or is a sizable amount of this actually just coming because milk is back down in the $15s? No look.
I think the most important takeaway from the call from my perspective is that really these results were certainly influenced by the performance at FDD and it was influenced by the drop in milk prices.
It's always a better environment when it goes down.
But all 3 of these businesses were huge contributors to the outperformance.
And frankly this WhiteWave business is just firing on all cylinders.
So again 11% volume growth in the WhiteWave business I think is just stunning branded volume growth performance.
And the algorithm is again about as good as it gets.
So 11% volume growth only 13% sales growth so very little in the way of price.
This is a business that's being driven by the consumer.
And really we've just been incredibly pleasantly surprised by the strengths of our brands and the strengths of these categories.
And again that's continuing as we move into Q2.
So we're extraordinarily pleased by the performance of the business that I think will ultimately drive the most value for this company.
And we'll continue on to Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question Gregg the problem last time around was with the excess capacity in the industry and the captive players and some of the local guys using the excess capacity to get more aggressive.
With most traditional retailers struggling for volume why shouldn't we be concerned that Kroger and Safeway and some of the little guys get more aggressive on pricing to drive store traffic again? Well look if there is one big risk that you still have to call out around this business it is soft volumes in the category and it's excess capacity in the processing industry.
The specific question that you're asking around retail behavior it's always possible that they revert to a highly promotional pattern of behavior.
But I think what the retailers have realized from the past 2 years of experience is that very deep discounting of milk really served only to destroy their collective profit pool in this category and did not drive incremental volume nor at the end of the day when everybody gets to the bottom does it drive share.
So I think frankly the most encouraging thing that we've seen out of the most recent drop in milk is that retailers to all appearances have abandoned that strategy and have frankly almost fully restored the margin over milk to close to its historic highs that we hit back in the early parts of 2009.
So that says to me that they've had the experience of pursuing a deeply promotional strategy with milk.
They've learned that it doesn't produce incremental profitability anywhere in their store.
And they're walking back to a more traditional approach to this category which emphasizes profitability as opposed to elasticity.
And I think that's good news.
But you're right the underlying industry still has soft volumes and still has excess capacity.
And when pinch points occur that can manifest itself as declining margins.
And that clearly is a risk.
The other thing I'd say about the change in the commodity though is there are -- our 2 years or 2.5 years in the wilderness here coincided with 30 months of pretty much steadily increasing milk prices over which period of time 80% or 90% of the months were up-month and which the prices of the commodity doubled.
I think we've all experienced how painful that is in terms of margin and now we're experiencing the other side of the normal dynamics in this category of the benefit that accrues in the category when the price of milk goes down for a pretty extended period of time.
So I think what's usual over the last 3 years is how long the uptrend was not what happens during the uptrend.
Because what happened during the uptrend is pretty much in line with what has happened historically in the uptrends.
But this was a 30-month period of steadily rising milk prices that we hope for the time being has ended.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I don't know if this will be a quick follow-up but the leverage has limited your by your own comments your financial flexibility or strategic flexibility with WhiteWave to recognize an asset that by the comments today is hitting on all cylinders.
Can you talk a little bit about at what leverage point WhiteWave is a potential asset to be spun off or sold? Or do you feel now that it's just -- it's worth keeping because it's doing so well and there's no need to even think about trying to force the market to recognize its value? Look I think we hit this issue head-on at CAGNY in early 2011.
And our point of view with respect to the role that WhiteWave plays in our portfolio hasn't really changed.
So let me start by saying we are keenly aware of the fact that -- or our belief that WhiteWave is a highly valuable property.
It's got dominant brands in rapidly growing categories it stokes by great innovation and marketing.
And it is performing I would argue as well as almost any consumer packaged goods business in the developed world.
It's just a fantastic business that is highly aligned with consumer trends towards health and well-being and organic.
It's just a fabulous business.
We're also keenly aware of our duty as a management team and the board is keenly aware of its duty to maximize value for its shareholders over time.
So if we don't feel that the value of WhiteWave is being reflected in the aggregate value of Dean Foods we understand that there is an opportunity to recognize value for our shareholders by separating it.
And we again I think stated that very clearly 1.5 years ago.
There have been some constraints on our ability to do so which we highlighted in 2011.
And those constraints were around the amount of leverage that the businesses going separated could sustain and what the appropriate leverage profile was for the businesses if you were to separate them and litigation that frankly had to be resolved before you could separate the business.
We've largely resolved the litigation.
That's a very large net positive for this company and our leverage level is working down.
So what I would tell you is we don't have a specific leverage target at which we're going to pull the trigger but we're mindful of the opportunity we think to perhaps accrete value for our shareholders.
And it's something that our management and our board considers on a regular basis.
And we'll continue on to Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> First a question on volume.
Gregg you've noted that retailers are keeping the margins in milk high.
But for you wouldn't you want them to moderate volumes a little or margins a little bit to drive volume in your category? Yes.
Farha there are crosscurrents of incentive and motivation and benefit for us in what happens at retail.
There's no question about it.
So when margins over milk are high our brands are more in value.
So our mix is beneficial but it crimps the volume.
When you drop the price the volume improves but it puts pressure on your brands.
And if they drop too far then that pressure rolls back downhill to processors.
So you're right there are reasons why it would be great for the price of milk at retail to start coming down.
I believe frankly that if the milk price continues to weaken or as it continues to weaken it's now almost inevitable that the retail will come down rather than the margin over milk expanding further because it is at close to historic highs here.
So I think we're going to get some of that benefit of declining retails as the raw milk market softens.
But I don't think we're going to go back to this highly promotional environment.
And I think that will be a pretty acceptable place for the processing community if that's the way that it plays out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my one follow-up is now that you have the business kind of stabilized and you can look forward for growth kind of what are the growth metrics for Dean Foods going forward? I think the key metrics in the FDD business are going to continue to be volume and gross profit and operating profit per gallon.
It's a very large very mature category and success there is going to be driven by being the low-cost provider to your customers and the high-service provider.
And that's what this business has been focused on for an extended period of time.
In Morningstar it's really going to be unit volume growth and what happens with the portfolio mix in terms of margins.
So Morningstar is a much more innovative business than it might appear on the surface as it collaborates with its customers particularly in the foodservice trade to build new products that drive their sales growth and that builds margin for Morningstar.
So as we go forward we hope to continue to build volume there and build our operating profit per nominal unit as we move forward in that business.
And then in WhiteWave the key metrics are going to be of course volume in the brands share in the brands and frankly the success of innovation and new product development.
So we have a pretty robust pipeline of innovation going in this company.
And we are tracking and should begin reporting out to you the percentage of new products of our overall sales in the WhiteWave business as we continue to drive our categories and our brand.
Research Division</strong> And so net for the company EPS growth targets? We're in such a highly transitional period right now Farha that I think it'd be a little premature to sort of put a long-term target on it.
We're going to be up in terms of EPS on the order of 50-plus percent this year given our guidance.
I think we need to sort of settle in for a little while around a stable EPS target before we start putting the long-term growth rate targets on it.
But we would expect this is a business given the growth profile of Morningstar and WhiteWave and the ability to continue to drive cost out of the FDD business where we can have superior operating and earnings per share growth again.
And that's our objective.
And we'll take our next question from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gregg just on the FDD side.
So your guidance for the full year for FDD low-teens kind of operating profit growth.
I mean Q1 you did high-teens with milk costs up year-over-year.
So I guess with milk costs now looking down probably 20% year-over-year in the next couple of quarters what's holding you back just in terms of expecting even better performance from a profitability perspective for FDD for the balance of the year? Judy the real driver the most important driver of FDD operating performance isn't the year-over-year comp it's the sequential comp.
And so if you look at Q1 sequential and Q2 sequential they're not all that different.
So it's the period-over-period decline that really drives expanding margins and profitability.
The year-over-year comp also makes some difference because it translates ultimately into price at retail which affects volume.
So I think that that is the principal reason that you don't see a large acceleration from the Q1 result as we move forward into Q2.
Q2 and Q3 are also burdened by the fact that we have significantly lower volumes in milk in FDD because schools are out.
So we're going to move down from a higher-volume quarter to a lower-volume quarter as we move in through the quarters that have summer months.
And that has the tendency that can strain profit growth a little bit.
So I think the third factor is we have been in the wilderness in this business for an extended period of time.
And I think it's just the nature of the operators of both businesses to be a little cautious as we forecast the business.
I think also Judy you've got to remember that Q4 last year for FDD was a growth quarter as well.
So our comps as we get towards the back half of the year are a little harder than they are in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the SG&amp;A reduction efforts I guess Shaun you called out sort of $100 million run rate.
Is this something that -- I know a few years ago you talked about kind of $100 million-plus sort of annualized cost savings program.
So I guess for the next couple of years or so is this still kind of a good run rate to use in terms of the savings that we could continue to see? And then with I guess the cost environment on the raw milk side and other non-raw milk commodity inflation being relatively stable if that is the assumption then is it fair to assume that bulk of those cost savings should sort of flow through the bottom line? If you take a step back Judy I think right now we look at 2012 and say our cost-savings target is about $125 million a little bit north of what we gave you last time as we've gotten better in Q1.
I think you should think about that as probably a little more than half of that is SG&amp;A savings and the rest of that is going to be evenly divided between distribution and plant savings if you will or factory savings.
Going forward I think probably $100 million a year is about the right number.
We need to continue to do the work on that as Gregg said as we think about where we are as a business in the longer-term ratios.
But we're happy with what we've gotten out and with the costs we've gotten out.
And we feel good about where we are for this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Shaun what's the CapEx for the year? Up $260 million to $275 million.
Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
I'm wondering you talked a lot obviously Gregg about the core business as well as new products contributing to the growth in WhiteWave.
And I'm curious if you could provide any color as to the breakdown between kind of how much was really pushed by marketing spend increased marketing focus and when that might lapse.
And then -- or if you continue to -- plan on continuing that level of marketing spend and then how much was kind of that new product piece? The new product are more a matter of interest than they are real drivers of the business.
The vast preponderance of the growth in the business was acceleration of the core products in the category.
So we just had fantastic performance in the Plant-based Beverages segment really built around Almond performing extraordinarily well and fantastic performance in our core International Delight Coffee Creamer business.
Those are the real drivers.
The new products are coming on quite strong.
I think we'll talk increasingly about them being drivers as we get to the back half.
But we're very pleased with where they are but really it's the core business that's performing extraordinarily well that's driving growth and profitability.
In terms of marketing spend we spent more than $7 million in this quarter in additional advertising beyond what we spent in Q1 last year.
So both in Q4 of 2011 and in Q1 of this year we've really heavied up on our advertising and marketing spend.
And I think you can see we're getting a fantastic payback for it.
So we're leaning in on building our brands.
We like the way that it's working.
We love the innovation that we're bringing to the category.
And we're really excited about this business.
Is there any one product that stands out in terms of new products that you have hopes for building a significant piece of the portfolio? Or is it really just kind of an all-encompassing contribution from those going forward? I think looking forward we're really excited about this Iced Coffee category.
So we think it can be a big piece of our business.
Of course we've got a big business here.
We've got what will be close to a $2.5 billion business in WhiteWave-Alpro as a segment this year.
So it's not -- we won't be talking about it as a separate platform but it will be a nice driver of growth I think for the business moving forward.
Is that fully distributed ACV [ph] on that? No it's not.
But it probably will be by late Q2 or Q3.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get your view on the milk commodity market.
Just what are you seeing there? Obviously you've talked about prices moderating and coming down in the back half.
But can you just talk about the fundamentals and perhaps what is the risk in your opinion of international demand driving that price back up? So if you could talk about that.
And then I have a follow-up on the gross profit margins for FDD.
Yes.
The milk market today is interesting globally which really drives the U.S.
price anymore.
So the global supply situation is about as good as it gets frankly.
We had a warm winter in the Northern Hemisphere particularly in North America.
You've seen that result in 4% and 5% sort of production volume growth in the U.S.
You also had a very strong season that's just wrapped up in New Zealand and Australia that's contributed to global stocks.
And the European season got off to a pretty strong start.
So you've had a robust supply environment that is a little unusual in the fact that all of these markets seem to be performing above their baseline supply growth rate.
So that's leading to I think a global increase in stocks which is driving the prices down.
On the demand side frankly you've seen continuing weak demand in the developed world.
So in the U.S.
and in Europe weak demand.
Even though they're not the high-growth markets they are the larger markets.
So when you see them soft that also leads to surplus stocks building.
And the outlook in the developed markets while they're higher growth than the developed markets have been maybe less frothy than they've been in the past.
So China has guided to slightly lower growth and I think you see that the bloom a little bit off the rose in the developing world.
So all of that's conspiring to build relatively high level of stock.
And what we have not yet seen is significant reductions in herds and those sorts of things.
So I think that's driven as much as anything by the fact that there's a robust supply of capital out there to sustain herd sizes.
So something's got to give here before too very long because I think at the margin the higher-cost producers are not making money.
But it doesn't seem to be happening very fast.
So we see the marketplace as probably hitting a bottom in the June July maybe August timeframe and then starting to build some strength in terms of raw milk prices for farmers into the back half of the year.
But nothing that's frothy.
Out beyond the end of the year everybody's crystal ball gets pretty fuzzy.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just to follow up on the FDD gross margin profile I believe gross margins are down slightly 40 basis points or something this quarter year-over-year.
You were talking about the retailers being a little bit more rational.
Can you talk about what the trajectory of that gross margin should be over the next few quarters? And then just a little bit more longer-term and what would it take -- I know it's very early in terms of the recovery.
But what would it take for you to come out and say that perhaps you could get back to sort of wholesale milk prices that you've seen historically? I think as you take a look at gross margins in the FDD business the way we look at it internally is going to be gross margin per gallon because that as Gregg said in his script piece of this that that's up about 2% year-on-year.
If you look at it as a percentage of sales it gets a little bit diluted by the cost of milk and the fact that we pass that on and the impact of that on on the business overall.
So overall we've actually improved our margin and we're comfortable with we've made a lot of progress in the 2 areas that are influencing that.
One is the cost reductions at the plant and the other one is the pricing realization we have in terms of passing on our commodity costs.
So we've made progress on that.
In terms of the longer-term outlook for this I think it's probably a little bit early for us to conclude on that.
But we continue to focus on that on a monthly and quarterly basis.
David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A question first on your guidance.
You've had different comments on your commodity assumptions or how you're describing how you thought the market would play out from a commodity standpoint.
Is your guidance based on stable prices through the rest of the year meaning that the absolute commodity milk prices would remain near these current levels? Yes.
Look there's a curve if you will a forecast to these prices that lots of economists develop we develop our own.
Again we see milk moving within a narrow band of $1 or so $1 or $2 from here.
So we think it drifts down a little bit from here through the beginning -- through the middle of the summer then we think it drifts back up towards the back of the year.
We'd call that stable and it is stable compared to prices that doubled or fell in half in short periods of time over the last 2 or 3 years.
So milk price is going to move every month.
It's not going to go to a $15.50 and stay there.
But if it's moving in a band of $1 or $1.50 around today's price we're going to call that a stable outlook for milk.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a separate question on your cost-reduction efforts it looked like you did a great job on your overhead cost control than you have been.
But I'd love for you to talk about what remaining cost-reduction opportunities you see in the next year or 2 not just overhead cost control but also in production distribution and in other areas.
And related to that how you feel Dean Foods compares to other top-tier dairy processors on sort of its cost structure overall? Well look we've taken very significant amounts of SG&amp;A out of the business and that is not a bottomless well right? We are running this business from an SG&amp;A perspective leaner than we've ever run it today.
And so I don't think there's just lots of room to take SG&amp;A out of the business going forward.
Some room maybe but not a lot of room.
Our big opportunities continue to be rationalizing our network right? We still have a very large network of facilities in the FDD business.
There is too much capacity in the industry.
These are sort of longer lead time projects because they involve investments in physical facilities.
But we still have meaningful opportunities to rationalize our network take excess capacity out and use our assets harder.
And then we are in a multiyear I'm sure it will never end program to constantly hone the efficiency and effectiveness of our distribution network.
And that continues to pay dividends to us.
So those are really the big opportunities on the cost side at FDD.
And the network opportunity is also an opportunity for the Morningstar business.
We have 11 plants today.
We've taken 1 plant out that we announced in this quarter.
And there continue to be opportunities to rationalize that network down to a fewer number of facilities as well.
So those are the biggest opportunities we have to take cost out going forward.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that I mean going forward just on that network and the distribution manufacturing rationalization over time is there a certain amount of savings per year you think you could generate from something like that? Is there any sort of numerical conclusion to that that you think we can draw? Yes I think Shaun mentioned it earlier.
I think that beyond this year the right way to think about it at least for the next couple of years is there's probably $100 million annual opportunity to take cost out of the overall system.
And Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Shaun distribution costs were up 5% during the quarter.
Have your price increases caught up with higher diesel and non-milk prices yet? I think we're getting better at that and we've made progress in this quarter.
To say we fully got that probably is a little bit much but we try to focus on a pricing protocol to make sure we capture as much of it as we can.
All right.
And the second thing is Gregg given all the discussion about commodity prices my understanding is that the benefit that you get from declining milk prices is simply the lag in how you price your wholesale milk right? So if milk prices stay stable that benefit goes away.
But other than that is there anything else from this milk environment that's benefiting you? Well I think we've touched on this topic earlier in the session.
And it really goes to the fact that as milk prices come down everybody's margins expand.
So the retailer's margins expand the processor's margins expand and there's just not as much bidding and negotiation pressure in the system when milk prices are low as opposed to when they're high.
All right.
Okay.
So at these levels of pricing we're not expecting -- or in other words how much of this environment is built into the guidance? I mean that's what I think was what people are trying to get to.
I mean I think it's fully informed the guidance right? So our guidance is based upon our view of what's going to happen in the commodity markets as it relates to FDD.
We'll take our next question from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to understand the guidance on corporate expense.
Is it up versus prior guidance at $190 million $195 million? Well I think we need to look at Rob is look at it more from an SG&amp;A standpoint.
We shift expenses around a little bit between the platforms.
So when we look at total cost we look more from an SG&amp;A standpoint than we do from a corporate standpoint.
So I don't know if the corporate forecast if you will is meaningful from that standpoint.
In addition a lot of our incentive comp is in the corporate numbers so it's a little bit overstated from what it has been in the past because of the fact that we have these other comps going up a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because 3 months ago I think the guidance was that corporate cost will provide a tailwind to SG&amp;A cost reductions.
And now you're saying they're going to be up versus a year ago.
So is that increase reflective of well-deserved corporate stock option expense going up? Yes.
I think principally in the corporate area I think again the SG&amp;A costs if you will the savings we assumed earlier is actually a little higher than we thought it was before.
So if it's $125 million in total cost savings for the year it's probably a little over half of that is going to be SG&amp;A savings.
So I think we're actually in the same place we were before just a little bit different shift in where that is on the platforms.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the tax rate it was higher than I thought for the quarter.
Is that going to be the tax rate for the year about 37.8%? Probably between 36% and 37% for the year is the right tax rate to look at.
And we'll now hear from Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have to ask my question as usual.
I think you commented that you don't have a long-term leverage target.
But I'm wondering you'd expect some decent EBIT growth from each segment this year.
I'm wondering how much of that do you expect to invest back in the business.
Or would you expect to delever from just the EBIT growth or also from more aggressive debt paydown above your amortization schedule? We're paying down debt well beyond our amortization schedule.
But as you know much of our debt capitalization is in revolving facilities whether they are a securitization facility or a AR facility.
So to the extent we have excess cash flow which this earnings profile will give us meaningful excess cash flow compared to our earlier guidance that will reduce our revolving facilities.
We will not make anticipatory term loan paydowns because frankly there's no advantage in terms of interest rate reduction for us to do so and it just reduces our flexibility.
So our expectations of debt paydown will have gone up meaningfully from the guidance that we gave you coming into the year.
We have slightly increased our expectations for capital spending driven by the fact that we've got to supply this very substantial volume growth in the WhiteWave-Alpro business.
So we need to put additional capital on the ground to do so.
But that's not a meaningful increase I think from $250 million to $260 million $265 million that sort of range.
So we're spending some of the additional earnings in additional CapEx but not a lot.
So you should see paydown go up.
You should see paydown in the $225 million to $250 million range for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then what about potentially coming back to refinance some of your bank lines that are shorter? Do you want to put in longer-term debt? Or do you want to keep some short-term debt on the balance sheet that you can keep paying down as you reach those 2014-type maturities? I think there's always going to be a meaningful role for bank indebtedness bank debt in our capital structure.
This is not a business that I think we can finance entirely in the bond market just because we do generate a lot of free cash flow and we need to have the ability to pay down balances without incurring penalties out of that cash flow.
So we clearly have maturities that we're going to have to refinance the first maturities are in 2014.
So that will be an activity that we'll undertake over the next several quarters as we get within a year of that maturity schedule.
But I don't think you should expect to see the nature of our overall capitalization the mix between bank and bonds change a heck of a lot.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one question.
On your gross profit margin it looks like the gross profit margin was down for the Fresh Dairy Direct in the first quarter.
And I'm wondering do you expect that to reverse as we get into second quarter with where the milk costs are? Yes.
The comparison that you're making in profit margins is against year-ago and that the milk price moves every month.
So the mathematical margin here the percentage margin is just not a good way to look at the business because milk prices were I believe 8% higher in the year-ago quarter.
So even though we're making more gross profit per gallon in FDD on milk it's a lower percentage margin just because the denominator is changing.
So you should be paying attention to gross profit margin per gallon in the FDD business as a way to measure performance because that percentage margin is going to move around all over the place based upon what the Class I Mover does.
But your point is with the Class I Mover going down it will be down about 20% on a year-over-year basis.
If milk does what we're expecting for 2 you'll see the margin go up substantially on a percentage basis and you shouldn't pay any attention to that either.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
But on the other 2 segments it looks like gross margin profit which I think you probably would say is a fair way to look at it is up for both other segments.
Or is it that WhiteWave was up more and Morningstar was more stable? Can you give us any color there on those segment margins? Well the WhiteWave business is a totally different business.
It effectively doesn't use milk as an input right or not a meaningful input.
So there soybeans are a crop.
You get a price per year.
It's just a very different dynamic.
There looking at gross margins is an appropriate way to look at the segment.
But they're just very different business.
Research Division</strong> Right but I guess I was asking so were those both -- were both WhiteWave and Morningstar margins up? Or was all the margin coming from WhiteWave the improvement? The gross margins were absolutely up in WhiteWave and in Morningstar.
No doubt about it.
And we'll take our final question from Reza Vahabzadeh with Barclays Capital.
As far as the European business it sounds like Alpro is still doing well.
Any concerns around weakness around the consumer over there? I recognize that the product the sales are up.
But how are you dealing with the consumer in Europe? Again it's a country-by-country story.
So we've got a pretty sizable business in Spain it's really struggling.
Struggling in terms of volumes struggling in terms of pricing power because you have 25% unemployment there.
Our business in Germany is healthy and in the Benelux countries is healthy our business in the U.K.
is quite good.
So it's really a country-by-country story.
And the softer the economy the more challenging the business is.
Overall the business is I would say somewhat more promotional than it has been.
So as a percentage price promotions is a higher percentage of our overall selling and marketing expense than it has been in prior periods.
Got it.
And then Shaun if you can just comment on working capital and cash taxes.
Is there a chance for working capital to be a source of cash this year given where input costs are trending? And then you didn't contribute much to federal budget deficit last year.
I assume your cash taxes will more closely approximate your book taxes this year? We're very proud of the fact we didn't contribute to that.
But yes we'll have cash taxes that will be largely equated to what we have in expense.
And in terms of working capital yes we expect that to improve over the balance of the year.
And that will be an improvement in our free cash flow for the year.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have for questions.
I'd like to turn things back over to Gregg Engles for additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for attending the call for your very good questions.
And we look forward to speaking with you soon at our August call at the latest.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on Dean's Food's corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods and any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any from without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our second quarter earnings conference call.
Yesterday we issued an earnings press release as well as a press release announcing the proposed initial public offering of common stock of the WhiteWave Foods Company whose business will be comprised of the WhiteWave-Alpro segment.
These press releases are available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press releases which are filed as exhibits to Form 8-Ks are -- as well as the S-1 filing are also available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
The earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided today are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude the expenses related to facility closings and reorganizations expenses related to asset write-downs expenses related to litigation matters gains or losses from the divestiture of assets and other nonrecurring items in order to enable you to make a meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods.
The press release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated results along with reconciliations between GAAP and adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding our branding initiatives expected cost savings leverage ratios the proposed IPO and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q and in our earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Engles our Chairman and CEO; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off by providing some comments related to the filing of the S-1 for WhiteWave Foods Company followed by a review of this quarter's results and the current business environment.
Then Shaun will offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
We're glad you could join us on this important day for Dean Foods.
Yesterday afternoon we announced strong Q2 results driven by continued growth across each of our 3 operating segments.
This continued solid performance has provided us the enhanced financial flexibility necessary to initiate the first step towards separating WhiteWave-Alpro from Dean Foods.
We also filed a registration statement to conduct an initial public offering of up to 20% of the WhiteWave Foods Company which is comprised of our WhiteWave-Alpro segment.
For all of the reasons we've discussed in the past we continue to believe that this is the right move for our shareholders.
WhiteWave-Alpro and the rest of Dean Foods have distinct product portfolios and business dynamics that require different management styles operating philosophies capital structures and levels of investment.
As such we believe the separation of WhiteWave-Alpro from Dean Foods is the next logical step in our journey to create value for our shareholders.
As you'll see in the filing effective with the IPO I'll become Chairman and CEO of The WhiteWave Foods Company while remaining Chairman of Dean Foods.
Blaine McPeak at WhiteWave Foods and Bernard Deryckere at Alpro will continue to report to me.
Kelly Haecker WhiteWave's CFO will assume the CFO role at the WhiteWave Foods Company and Roger Theodoredis will be promoted from General Counsel of WhiteWave to the General Counsel role of the new company.
At the time of the IPO Gregg Tanner who is currently the President of Fresh Dairy Direct and our Chief Supply Chain Officer will be promoted to CEO of Dean Foods.
Gregg Tanner has over 30 years of food industry experience and his leadership of Fresh Dairy Direct and our supply chain organization over the past 5 years has been instrumental in the strong return to growth that we have experienced in our largest business.
Given his extensive industry experience and proven record at Fresh Dairy Direct the board and I are fully confident that Gregg is well qualified to assume the CEO role and continue to build on the long-term success of Dean Foods.
We built a strong leadership team across Dean Foods and we're pleased that this transaction will provide new avenues for career growth for many of our employees.
As we move forward with this process I'm confident it will be a smooth process and transition.
Our strong operating performance and the resulting improvement in our balance sheet has provided the enhancement and the flexibility necessary to pursue a separation of the business with each of the separate company balance sheets well positioned to support future growth.
As of the end of the second quarter total Dean Foods leverage as -- defined as net debt-to-EBITDA is just under 4x.
This slide provides a high level view of the transaction's expected impact on Dean Foods.
At the time of the offering the IPO proceeds plus $800 million to $925 million that we expect to raise in debt at WhiteWave will funnel back up to Dean Foods to reduce debt.
The net result is that following this IPO transaction we expect Dean's leverage ratio to decline to approximately 3.5x as defined by our credit agreements at year end.
At that time we expect the WhiteWave Foods company's leverage to be between 3 and 3.5x.
In the event that the IPO is not completed by year end we expect Dean Foods' leverage ratio to be approximately 3.75x.
Beyond that brief overview SEC regulations limit what I can say with respect to this important transaction.
In general I would refer you to the S-1 filing for details regarding the proposed offering.
Now I'd like to turn to a discussion of our second quarter results.
We continue to build on our broad-based momentum in the second quarter.
We delivered strong growth across the business and a doubling of the year-ago quarter's adjusted earnings per share.
Highlights include 11% net sales and 31% operating income growth at WhiteWave-Alpro continuing our strong momentum across that business; a 41% increase in operating income at Fresh Dairy Direct driven by continued fluid milk volume outperformance against the soft category and a focus on pricing discipline and cost reduction; 10% core volume growth and 19% operating income growth at Morningstar driven by strong customer performance new products and production-driven cost reductions.
With this strong performance across the business units and our continued focus on cost containment we delivered consolidated adjusted operating income growth of 37% and 100% adjusted earnings per share growth.
Cash flow was particularly robust during the quarter.
Net debt declined $196 million from Q1.
And as I mentioned earlier our debt-to-EBITDA ratio ended the quarter below 4 at 3.96x representing our lowest leverage position since the second quarter of 2009.
With that overview let's look at each of the segments in a bit more detail starting with WhiteWave-Alpro.
WhiteWave-Alpro's on-trend categories leading brands and highly effective innovation and marketing continued to deliver strong net sales growth in the quarter.
In total second quarter WhiteWave-Alpro net sales grew 11% over the prior year to $573 million primarily driven by volume growth.
Strong momentum continued in Plant-based Beverages in Q2 with Silk PureAlmond continuing to be the strongest performer in the platform.
PureAlmond is bringing new users into the plant-based beverage category and was recently honored with a Nielsen Breakthrough Innovation Award which recognized the product as one of the most successful and enduring food and beverage product innovations of 2010.
In just 2 years since its launch PureAlmond has reached more than half the size of our Silk soy business and its growth in the second quarter was highly incremental.
Strong growth in Silk PureAlmond and PureCoconut products drove plant-based food and beverage sales growth of over 20% in Q2.
With a strong core coffee creamer set augmented by the introduction of International Delight Iced Coffee this year our Coffee Creamers and Beverages platform also continued to deliver strong growth.
Iced coffee continues to perform well and net sales for the total platform increased nearly 20% in the second quarter.
We expect a solid momentum in our Coffee Creamers and Beverages platform to continue through the back half of the year.
Turning to our premium dairy platform you'll recall that we increased prices on Horizon Organic this -- earlier this year.
This increase passed through a portion of the increase in the price that we pay the farmers for organic milk which was initiated to offset increasing farmer cost and encourage additional supply growth.
As expected this price increase and tighter raw milk supplies have resulted in moderated net sales growth for premium dairy this year increasing mid-single digits in Q2 on slightly lower volumes.
On a euro basis our Alpro business net sales increased high single digits in the quarter a significant achievement given the state of the economies in many of its European markets.
Fresh drinks and yogurts continue to post strong growth and Northern Europe continues to generally outperform the South.
With the impact of the stronger dollar Alpro net sales declined mid-single digits in the quarter after currency conversion.
Net Q2 results for the WhiteWave-Alpro segment are as follows: volumes were up strongly net sales increased 11% to $573 million and operating income grew 31% to $58 million.
This performance includes significantly increased marketing investment to support our new product launches and incremental start-up cost related to our new Dallas facility.
The new plant is ramping up as well due to the strong volume growth across the WhiteWave business.
We are very pleased with the positive momentum at WhiteWave-Alpro and we will continue to invest in innovation marketing and manufacturing infrastructure to support its robust growth.
Fresh Dairy Direct also delivered another quarter of strong growth in Q2.
Our performance was driven by continued focus on 3 fundamental areas: volume performance price realization and cost efficiency.
On the volume side our focus on new business resulted in fluid milk volumes that again outperformed the industry.
Fresh Dairy Direct fluid milk volumes were flat when adjusted for the divestiture of our Waukesha facility last year or down 1.2% on an unadjusted basis.
This compares to the balance of the fluid milk industry that experienced an estimated 2.5% decline in volumes.
In Q2 the Class I raw milk price continued a decline that began in the fourth quarter of 2011 averaging $15.58 per hundredweight.
This represents a 10% sequential decline and a 21% decline from year-ago levels.
The summer heat and drought conditions across the Midwest this year have resulted in rising prices in the futures market for feed and dairy commodities with the December Class III futures price climbing above $19 per hundredweight recently.
While a rise of this nature is not out of the question in our view and that of several other dairy -- our view and that of several other dairy economists is not quite so pessimistic.
While we are keeping an eye on rising corn and feed prices we think the upward impact on dairy prices could be less extreme than some analysts predict for several reasons.
First domestic milk production has been very strong through the first half of 2012 with the current USDA full year forecast calling for 2.8% year-over-year growth.
Milk supply growth has been supported by cheap and plentiful alfalfa and hay through the first half of this year and the strong milk supply growth is matched against tepid domestic demand resulting in relatively high inventory levels for storable dairy commodities: cheese nonfat dry milk and butter.
Additionally a strengthening dollar reduces U.S.
price competitiveness on the global market particularly versus the euro likely impacting export activity in the back half of the year.
The graph on this page shows the approximate high and low Class I forecasts based on data from 6 prominent dairy economists.
As you can see views regarding the slope of the forward trend over the balance of the year are significantly varied.
Balancing the puts and takes that exist in the market today in relation to the overall range of expectations our view is relatively center cut between the high and low forecasts.
As expected the August Class I price increased just over $1 from July to $16.55 per hundredweight.
We expect another step higher in September resulting in a Q3 average price in the mid-$16s up less than $1 from Q2 and still significantly below last year's Q3 average of $21.41 per hundredweight.
Following this increase we expect the Class I Mover to rise modestly in Q4 resulting in a full year average price in the high $16s.
If however prices trend closer to the higher end of the range of forecasts which is certainly possible we would expect the additional headwind to impact FDD operating income by between $5 million and $10 million in Q4.
This is roughly equivalent to $0.02 to $0.04 per share.
Turning back to Q2.
The retail environment continues to be much more favorable compared to the previous 2 years when retailers were deeply discounting private-label milk.
The margin over milk which measures the spread between average retail price for private label and a Class I raw milk price remained at levels consistent with historical averages creating a healthier environment for the entire dairy value chain and helping bring our regional brands back into better value versus private label.
Regional brand market shares stabilized over the last few quarters and our brand volumes outperformed private label in the second quarter.
Also helping support our overall volume performance at Fresh Dairy Direct has been the strong performance of our reformulated and re-branded chocolate milk business sold under the TruMoo brand.
First launched in schools and then expanded across our retail business TruMoo offers superior-tasting low-fat chocolate milk with no high-fructose corn syrup lower total sugar and all the great nutrition of milk.
TruMoo's success in schools and at retail make it Fresh Dairy Direct's largest single national brand with over $630 million in annual sales.
Volume sales of TruMoo at retail increased 12% in the second quarter and were up 6% year-to-date against a category decline of approximately 4%.
With a relatively favorable commodity environment and a focus on price realization and cost efficiency Q2 Fresh Dairy Direct gross profit reached $532 million.
This represents a 4% improvement in gross profit per gallon from year-ago levels.
Additionally our continued focus on costs helped drive improved operating expense performance.
This is the reason expenses declined $8 million from a year ago while SG&amp;A costs declined $20 million.
It is important to note that over the last 2 years we've taken over $150 million in structural fixed costs out of the FDD business on a run rate basis.
This is clearly evident in our recent performance.
Fluid milk volume outperformance a focus on price realization  and disciplined cost management resulted in $125 million of Q2 Fresh Dairy Direct operating income.
This represents a 41% increase over last year and a 24% sequential improvement from the first quarter.
Gregg Tanner and his team continue to drive significant improvements in the FDD business and we expect this momentum to carry over into the back half of the year.
Our Morningstar team led by Kevin Yost also posted strong results with 10% volume growth driven by strength in both food service and retail.
Morningstar is an innovation and customer relationship-driven business with new products helping to propel its strong growth.
Morningstar's ice cream mix and iced coffee products posted strong growth in the quarter bolstered by increased distribution at existing customers new customer wins and warmer temperatures that helped spur consumption.
In addition to the strong performance of our ice cream mix and iced coffee products another great example of the success that the Morningstar team has driven is the turnaround in their away from home sour cream business.
With product and packaging innovation and a new pricing architecture our Morningstar team has delivered strong and accelerating double-digit growth in sour cream in the food service channel during the first half.
In recognition of Morningstar's customer first philosophy we were recently chosen out of over 2 000 suppliers as Sysco's top Gold Supplier across all categories.
Our Wholesome Farms whipping cream was also recognized with the Best of Sysco Brand Award.
Robust growth across the Morningstar business resulted in mid-teens increase in volume in the food service channel and an increase of high single digits at retail.
Solid volume growth offset by the pass-through of more favorable dairy commodities resulted in Morningstar net sales of $345 million on par with the year-ago quarter.
Segment gross profits increased 13% to $62 million.
The powerful combination of strong volume growth and our increased or continued focus on efficiency delivered Morningstar operating income of $32 million a 19% increase over Q2 last year.
Like our FDD and WhiteWave-Alpro businesses Morningstar carries significant momentum into the second half of the year and we expect continued strong growth.
Before I turn the call over to Shaun I'd like to reiterate how pleased we are to report another quarter of strong performance.
We have an excellent foundation in place.
With expectations for continued execution across all platforms I'm confident on our ability to deliver for the balance of the year.
With that here's Shaun to provide some additional commentary on the financials.
Shaun? Thanks Gregg.
Good morning everyone.
During the second quarter we continued to focus on 3 main priorities: volume performance price realization and cost reduction.
We believe this focused approach helped drive the strong overall performance.
The results of this approach are clearly manifested in our gross profit performance for the quarter solid volume growth at WhiteWave-Alpro and Morningstar coupled with a continued focus on cost and price realization across the business resulted in a consolidated gross profit of $805 million.
This was 6% or $46 million above the year-ago quarter.
Below the gross profit line distribution efficiencies were offset by increased expense related to higher sales volumes to result in a 1% increase in distribution expense for the quarter.
Selling and marketing costs also increased 1% as increased selling expense related to higher sales volumes and higher spending related to new product launches were partially offset by efficiencies at FDD.
Within this total advertising expense increased 17% or $8 million over the year-ago quarter.
Adjusted G&amp;A cost declined 3% driven by our ongoing cost reduction efforts.
In fact SG&amp;A excluding advertising and incentive compensation declined $30 million.
In total increased gross profit across all segments and our sharp focus on controlling expenses resulted in a 37% growth in Q2 consolidated operating income.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year adjusted operating profit growth for Dean Foods and our highest quarterly results since Q4 of 2009.
With effectively flat consolidated operating expenses our growth was entirely the result of increased gross profits.
Below the operating line a particularly strong quarter of debt reduction and lower effective interest rates led to an $11 million decline in interest expense from the year-ago period.
As a result we now expect full year interest expense to be in the range of $220 million to $223 million.
Adjusted net income of $66 million resulted in second quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.36 a 100% increase from a year ago.
Turning now to cash flow and the balance sheet.
We had a particularly strong quarter of cash flow and debt reduction.
Total net debt decreased by $196 million from Q1 to $3.5 billion.
Cash flow from operations totaled $235 million in Q2.
Capital spending totaled $51 million resulting in free cash flow of $184 million.
Through the first 6 months of the year cash flow from operations totaled $239 million; capital spending $96 million; and free cash flow was $143 million.
Nearly $200 million of net debt reduction coupled with strong EBITDA growth drove our leverage ratio of net funded debt-to-EBITDA as defined by our credit agreements down to 3.96x at quarter end.
This is more than a 1.5 turn below our 5.5x covenant and a full turn below where the ratio stood a year ago.
Having already met our previously stated goal to reduce leverage to 4x by year end we are updating our expectations.
Including the expected de-leveraging from the IPO we now expect total leverage to be nearly 3.5x by year end.
In the event that the IPO is not completed by year end we expect Dean Foods' Q4 leverage ratio to be approximately 3.75x.
With that I will turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on our forward outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Thank you Shaun.
Looking ahead at Q3 and the balance of the year we expect continued strong performance across the business.
We expect first half momentum to continue at WhiteWave-Alpro with strong volume-driven net sales growth and operating leverage.
Unfortunately due to the quiet period imposed around the IPO we cannot provide specific WhiteWave-Alpro guidance at this time.
At Fresh Dairy Direct we will continue to focus on the fundamentals of the business: volume performance price realization and cost efficiency.
We expect to continue to post solid year-over-year growth despite expectations for a rising dairy commodity environment.
We expect mid to high teens full year operating income growth at FDD.
At Morningstar solid customer growth new product innovations and a focused approach are expected to drive continued success for the segment over the balance of the year resulting in mid-teens full year operating income growth.
In total strong operating segment performance and a continued focus on efficiency and leverage reduction should drive continued strong operating income and EPS growth.
For the third quarter we expect EPS to be between $0.25 and $0.30.
Typically about this time of year we will begin to shrink our annual guidance range.
However with the incremental uncertainty in the commodity market we're maintaining a $0.10 range for the time being.
Given our strong performance in the first half and expectations for continued momentum over the balance of the year we're increasing our full year guidance to a range of $1.18 to $1.28 per share under our current corporate structure.
In summary we reported strong second quarter performance driven by growth across all of our operating segments.
We're pleased with the first half of 2012 and look forward to building on these results over the balance of the year.
As I noted in my introduction our strong performance has driven solid leverage reduction and provided the enhanced financial flexibility necessary to pursue the proposed IPO for WhiteWave Foods Company.
We have a deep management bench on both sides of the business and we believe this transaction will create new opportunities for growth.
We look forward to moving ahead with this plan and of course we'll keep you informed as the process advances.
With that said given the legal limitations regarding our ability to comment on yesterday's S-1 filing for the WhiteWave Foods Company we will limit our responses during the Q&amp;A portion of today's call to second quarter results.
Thank you again for joining us on this important day for Dean Foods.
I'll now conclude our prepared remarks and ask Jennifer to open the line for your questions.
Jennifer? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Alexia Howard with Sanford &amp; Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess if we're focusing on the results on the quarter could I ask about the Horizon business? It looks as though supplies of organic milk really did start to come down quite significantly in the last month or 2.
Can you say anything about what's enabling you to see reasonable growth there and when those supplies might start to get better going forward? Yes Alexia really the supply constraints in the organic milk business started building in the back half of last year as prices for organic production feed and other inputs began to rise at the farm level and we and the industry over the course of the last 2 years have given several increases in pay prices to our farmer partners and providers.
I think that the benefit of those pay price increases for organic milk production will start to manifest themselves somewhat in the back half of the year.
So you really have 2 effects taking place in the organic milk market: you have some limitation on supply; and then frankly you have the tamping down of demand that comes with the multiple price increases that the industry has taken in order to offset the effect of rising raw milk cost.
So we expect as we begin to lap those price increases for volume to start to build back into the organic milk category but I think it'll be the back half of the year before that really takes hold.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as a follow-up can I ask about your volume outlook for FDD? Your volumes have been significantly better than the industry over the last few quarters.
Are you feeling -- are you managing to win contracts versus the other players? Or is there something else going on that's allowing you to see better volume growth than the industry overall? Well I think that our inherently somewhat advantaged platform of having really the only national platform continues to play to our advantage with large national customers who I think ultimately find the advantage in our ability to supply them wherever they are.
And as you know from what's happening in the overall retail segment the larger national retailers are slowly and inexorably taking share from the smaller regional players in the marketplace.
So I think we as the only national platform continue to benefit from that trend which is just share shift within our customer base.
We also continue to outperform I think in channels that are growing more rapidly including the small-format channel segment.
And then we are competitive in bid situations on the margin.
So I think all of those things are driving our continued excellent performance with respect to comparative industry volumes.
We'll take our next question from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay maybe first a detailed question.
Now hopefully you can answer this but I'm not exactly -- it's not exactly clear to me with regard to the WhiteWave partial spin how the debt paydown over the next 6 or let's call it 5 6 months is occurring.
Can you walk through the -- so you're going to raise a couple of hundred million but then it looked like you were also going to put a fair amount of debt on to WhiteWave yet there's also some -- there's free cash flow that's going to be used to pay down debt.
So is it possible to kind of walk through a little bit in more detail how you get to the 3.5 to 3.75x EBITDA? Yes so let me try and break it down into pieces for you.
So we're at 4 today and we expect -- let's say we expect the timing of this IPO to be at year end just to make the math easy.
All of the free cash flow from the combined businesses WhiteWave Morningstar and FDD will go to repay our existing credit balances at Dean Foods up until the moment of the IPO.
That will de-lever us from 4x to 3.75x.
All right? We intend to put between 3 and 3.5x EBITDA of leverage on WhiteWave and then raise IPO proceeds on top of that.
All of that cash will be upstream to Dean Foods to repay its outstanding credit balances which then deleverages you from the 3.75 to about 3.5x.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Okay we can work that out.
And then I guess a follow-up question then again.
I don't know if you'll be able to answer this but one of the things about WhiteWave -- and this is more of a longer-term question but there's a high correlation between your market share and your margin and profitability ratios whether it's Quaker Oats oatmeal or Wrigley gum or what have you.
And so why is it that with such high market shares across the bulk of the brands within WhiteWave why is the margin there at let's say an average of 10% versus again similar brands with growth and shares where margins have historically been closer to 20%? Can you answer that one? Well my lawyer's sitting across the table from me and she is going to frown at me if I get out of bounds here.
So let me just make this a historical commentary.
And we've said this many many many times.
When you take the WhiteWave business and you look at its brands separately as opposed to in the aggregate what you will find is that the International Delight business and the Silk business have best-in-class operating profit margins and the Horizon Organic business has a significantly lower margin structure.
And so when you average those 3 together you get the margin structure that you see.
And as you've seen our margin structure progress you'll see that to some extent it's driven by the mix and the relative growth rates of our business.
So over the last 2 or 3 quarters you've seen our Plant-based Beverages business and our coffee creamer business grow substantially faster than Horizon Organic and you've seen our operating income margin structure move up by over 100 basis points.
So that's what drives it.
We'll take our next question from Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg we just wanted to focus on the outperformance in the FDD business during the quarter.
Shaun you mentioned that -- about $28 million of SG&amp;A and distribution saving during the quarter.
Do you have a similar number for the first quarter? We're about $60 million in SG&amp;A decline first half versus first half if you back out incentive compensation and advertising.
Is that just the FDD Shaun or is that the whole...
It's about $24 million for FDD in Q2.
So it's probably $50 million for FDD in the first half of the year.
So similar sort of improvement in first and second quarter from the cost-cutting perspective? Is that what I'm getting? Yes that's correct.
Year-over-year.
I'd say slightly higher in Q2 than in Q1.
Right.
Okay that's good.
So then the significant outperformance is that just a function of declining milk prices then? You did 125 versus 100 in the first quarter.
Well certainly declining milk prices helped.
There's no question about that.
I wouldn't attribute it all to declining milk prices because we have an ongoing effort to deliver in excess of $100 million of savings this year and some of that's flown to the bottom line.
Yes.
I would say Amit if you talk about the numbers I just referred to those were more SG&amp;A savings.
On top of that we try to get efficiencies for distribution as well as in our plant.
So there's more savings there that we are targeting than we actually delivered in the first half of the year.
So I think it's a combination of the commodities the cost-cutting efforts as well as continued price realization.
What I'm really trying to kind of get to Shaun is if the milk environment [indiscernible] as you said it's certainly a possibility what -- how much of that will be cushioned by these cost savings and SG&amp;A savings going forward? Will we get to the second half perhaps here? Or will it be lower than that in FDD? I think we've put in ourselves in a position as Gregg said where we've actually made structural changes to our costs that allow us to absorb the prices a little better than we have in the past.
I think we'll have some impacts obviously with milk prices going up to ability to pass on all those things from our pricing protocols.
But I think in general we're in a better position today than we were a year ago or 2 years ago.
Got it.
And then on the spin Gregg are you able to comment on the timing of the transaction? I mean certainly this makes a lot of sense and something that you have talked about in the past.
Why do it now versus 6 month ago or 6 months later? Well first of all what we have long said was the impediment to affecting this transaction was the balance sheet.
And so fundamentally our decision to proceed now I think reflects our judgment that the balance sheet is in a position where we can affect this deal and do so in a way that leaves each of the separate companies with balance sheets that are appropriately suited for the conditions they'll experience and their need to be able to finance their growth going forward.
So we've as Shaun mentioned dramatically reduced our leverage over the last year.
We're a full turn below where we were a year ago and frankly well ahead of the pace that we had set for ourselves in 2012.
So when we began to see this earlier in the year obviously what you read about yesterday didn't happen over the last 3 weeks.
There has been substantial work for a substantial period of time in order to prepare for this.
And so as we begin to see the trajectory of the business for 2012 we began to move forward with our effort to culminate it in the filing of the S-1 yesterday.
So really the key drivers are the de-leveraging of the business but then the very very strong performance through the first half of WhiteWave-Alpro I think highlighting the opportunities that that business has which I think are elucidated in the S-1 to grow going forward and the need for a separate capital structure and a separate currency in order to fully to take advantage of those opportunities.
And we'll take our next question from Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Gregg can you talk about -- were you surprised in the quarter? I guess the -- your volumes are actually pretty good compared to the industry.
But just given the decline in milk prices what the industry volumes did do you think that it would be better than down 2.5%? It's bouncing around between down 2.5% to down 0.5%.
It's just not correlated to price.
I think it's correlated to weather and the season and to the general economic outlook and consumer confidence.
And so you have cross currents in the marketplace this year.
So it has been really hot.
That is not on balance good for milk consumption at the margin in terms of just how people eat.
So I think that had a mildly depressive impact on volumes.
I think you've got weak consumer confidence right now which is negative for volumes.
And I think you've got slightly better retail prices which is somewhat helping volumes.
So I'm not really surprised.
I think we see the trend right now down kind of...
1.5 1 to 2 on average.
[indiscernible] was down 2% for the quarter.
That's on top of a 1.7% decrease in Q1.
So it's pretty consistent with what we saw in the first quarter as well.
Really what we've seen for the last 5 quarters.
Yes exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what -- and if you expect milk prices to rise in the back half of the year do you expect volumes to continue to decline? And then do you think you may start to see some competitive pressure from some of your smaller peers? It's always hard to predict the level of competitive intensity in a rising commodity environment.
I would say this about the processing industry generally.
I think the industry has been through 2 or 2.5 years of quite difficult economic conditions and I think it has pretty much historically low margins at this point of time.
So I think that will impact how -- the industry reacts in this rising environment.
And while you can also never predict what your customers are going to do in terms of the promotional environment I think that on balance their experience in this last highly competitive promotional period was not particularly good.
So -- and that's pretty recent.
So we'll just see.
Again I think it's fair hard to predict.
Rising prices do impact volume negatively.
So if prices spike significantly we'll see volumes slip a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then can you just talk about -- I mean you've had some really strong growth in the top line for WhiteWave the last couple of years.
Can you talk about how much of that is pricing versus volumes? In 2012 so far it's almost all volume.
There is with the exception of Horizon very very little pricing in the algorithm.
There was somewhat more pricing in 2011 because we were in a period of pretty significant commodity cost inflation.
In 2011 I think I'll refer you really to the MD&amp;A section of the S-1 which I think covers this in some detail but my recollection is about half price half volume.
About right.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So overall it's been relatively pretty balanced.
And then can you just talk about in term -- in Silk? It seems like soy is starting to stabilize a little bit and you're still seeing some pretty robust in almond.
Can you -- what can you attribute that stabilization to in soy? And do you think that can continue? Yes the soy business is a big business.
And with the introduction of almond what we ultimately did was give the consumers a flavored choice.
And so I think the lighter less committed soy users who liked the taste of almond moved to that direction and have stayed in the almond category.
I think also almond is also drawing people into the category who wouldn't come into the category when it was just soy which is driving the overall growth of that category.
And the soy category has kind of resolved itself to the committed heavy soy user.
So we do feel like over the last few quarters the soy part of the category has really put its base in.
And now the almond coconut other plant-based alternative offerings in the category are really truly incremental to the total category.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had one kind quick kind of overview question for you a big-picture question Gregg which is in relation to the WhiteWave IPO I'm curious why that was chosen versus just a complete spin-off.
And if you could give any color around what the intentions will be for Dean Foods given that it'd still own a good chunk of WhiteWave.
When would that -- theoretically your -- what's the reasonable time horizon [indiscernible] to shareholders? Yes again we've cover this pretty thoroughly in the S-1 around the timing and intentions.
But first as to why pursue an IPO.
First of all I think having a WhiteWave security trade on a post-IPO basis is I think an excellent way for the market to assess the WhiteWave story on a stand-alone basis and I think will lead to an orderly market as we ultimately distribute all of the shares in WhiteWave to our shareholders through the ultimate spin.
So it's a pretty typical way of companies going about this.
But frankly if you go back to the earlier question around the balance sheet the IPO proceeds are incremental proceeds to the total Dean Foods capitalization that allow us to de-lever the business and again create 2 balance sheets that we think are appropriately levered for the business realities of the 2 separate companies.
So the capital we will raise in the IPO is incremental aggregate debt paydown for the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure that makes sense.
I also want -- go ahead sorry.
Just back to the timing question.
As is typical in these transactions there will be a lockup with respect to Dean Foods' ownership of its shares in WhiteWave following the IPO and that lockup's 180 days which is why we've said in the S-1 that unless that is waived by the underwriters the spin would not happen until at least the 180-day mark post the IPO.
And frankly our plan today would be assuming conditions permit to move expeditiously to distribute the shares.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I had one follow-up if I could which is in relation to the continued and very significant cost declines in the dairy business the costs you're pulling out of the business.
You cited some -- obviously some fixed-cost declines.
You got some very aggressive SG&amp;A declines over the last 2 years.
It's been a huge benefit to the margin structure of that business.
And I guess going forward -- I want to be clear.
It's something that I talked to you about before in the past.
But is the next round of cost reductions any kind of meaningful cost reductions will that require capital? And I guess the question being the dairy business on its own I guess would have the capacity and -- to spend some capital to reduce costs even further from this point? Look we have a portfolio of cost reduction opportunities.
We have continued opportunities I think to streamline our G&amp;A infrastructure and take costs out there do things more efficiently.
That is not highly capital intensive.
And we still have a portfolio of over 80 fluid milk plans in the FDD business where I think we continue to see opportunities to reduce our fixed-cost burden and make our network more efficient.
And those by and large will require capital.
I think the plan right now Chris is capital spend for this year will be likely increased for 2013 as we think through some cost reduction opportunities.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there an -- have you given new guidance for this year for CapEx? For CapEx this year it's consistent with the last time.
For next year we haven't given guidance yet but it'll increase.
We'll take our next question from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gregg on the WhiteWave business so I think you've had a lot of success with some of the newer products like the Silk Fruit&amp;Protein and the iced coffee line.
So where are you just in terms of distribution on those brands? And what sort of run rate do you see as you continue to build distribution of some of the newer products? And then just on the margin side I understand you can't really give forward outlook but just in terms of maybe the first half if you can talk about how much advertising was up in the quarter.
And then the start-up costs how much was that a drag just to get a sense of kind of what's the positive mix impact and the volume leverage would have been in the quarter? Yes I can -- advertising is $8 million increase year-on-year for Q2 for WhiteWave-Alpro.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the start-up costs? The start-up cost I'd call it $3 million to $4 million after the quarter on here.
And then -- and that plant is ramping up kind of quickly.
We have one line running in that plant today.
By Q1 of next year we'll have 5 lines running in that plant.
So it's ramping up quickly as we try and service the volume that's coming at us in our categories and that we are now manufacturing out of our network in some circumstances.
So that plant is improving quickly and is going to be a great asset for us.
After the distribution of the new products we're 70-plus percent ACV in iced coffee.
We're 50%-plus ACV in Fruit&amp;Protein.
So we still have some distribution room to go there but we also think that these categories just have lots of room for innovation and product development.
So we're really excited about those platforms.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Gregg just on the Class I Mover pricing so helpful to kind of get perspective on the balance of the year but do you have any thoughts on how you're thinking about 2013? And I guess to the extent that there is risk to the herd sizes being reduced because of the higher grain cost how are you sort of incorporating that into potentially and even more onerous inflation perhaps in 2013? We had -- 3 months ago when the world's outlook on agriculture was different than it is today we had expected 2013 to be a relatively stable year in terms of milk pricing.
We're going to have a higher first half of 2013 than we had previously expected.
And again the Class I expectation is going to be -- or Class I reality at the end of the day is going to be driven by a complex set of forces.
So the higher the milk prices go the quicker -- the more quickly we're going to destroy demand and the more quickly they're going to come back down and the less the herd is going to reduce and all of those things.
So this is a thin market.
I think everybody understands that a thinly traded market.
And it's a market that sometimes moves on the basis of emotion.
But when you cut through the emotion and you look at supply and demand balance here which I think is going to drive sort of the intermediate and long-term realities of milk prices we are relatively long dairy commodities globally.
The U.S.
position in terms of its global competitiveness is declining because its currency is strengthening.
We have weak domestic takeaway of fluid and other dairy products in the United States.
And frankly we have a situation where increases or expectations for declining farm profitability are driven by the current corn crop.
And what I'm often reminded of or think of is that you know what we are going to have another corn crop next year.
And most farmers know that that we're going to have another corn crop next year.
And for them to take advantage of relatively high milk prices they have to avoid killing their cows because it takes time to rebuild their herds.
And so again there's an enormous amount of emotion driving this marketplace.
But -- and we may well have spikes in price in this marketplace as that emotion and the uncertainty around the corn crop and herd side plays out.
But when you dig down and you look at the fundamentals our view at least today what we know about the crops and grain prices and what we expect to happen with inputs over the back half of the year and the beginning of next year when you take and you filter all that through that we believe the supply and demand balance on average suggests that milk prices should move up but not explode to the upside.
That's our view.
And we'll take our next question from Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Just to follow along that same line of thinking and not to belabor the point but on the organic side I would suspect that a lot of the areas impacted by drought also produce organic feed.
And I'm wondering if there's any exposure on the soy side.
I know that that is typically contracted but inasmuch as this dry weather could affect supplies of other inputs could you comment on what your exposure might be? Well with respect to soy the reality of the Silk businesses is just have a -- the fundamentally different margin structure than our FDD milk business.
So the cost of raw materials as a percentage of selling price is just dramatically lower there.
It's much more of a branded consumer packaged goods business model.
So yes we have exposure to rising soy prices but the ultimate impact on profitability will be much more akin to what you would see across the balance of the food group and what you would see from rising milk prices in the FDD business.
Yes there are areas affected by the drought that are producers of organic products but the reality of organic dairy production is these cows are on pasture they tend not to be in the areas that have been most affected by the drought this year it's well distributed across the United States from a geographic perspective.
And so yes there will be out of this drought some upward pressure with respect to the organic complex as well but it is not as much of a grain-fed confined feeding-driven business as the FDD business is.
And so we don't expect the impacts to be as high.
And the pasture conditions as I've read it are the worst in something like 50 years.
I'd be surprised that organic would be completely unaffected.
But in any case just one...
I didn't say it would be completely unaffected.
We just said it would be not as affected as FDD.
Got it.
Just a follow-up on -- you suggested that the hot weather affected and negatively impacted maybe fluid milk volumes but I'm curious on ice cream and that side if you saw any benefit as you might have in the past.
Absolutely.
Our ice cream mix and frozen dessert business at Morningstar as we said in our prepared remarks definitely benefited from warm weather and the same is true of our ice cream business inside of FDD okay? And yes and our iced coffee business.
No question about it.
We'll take our next question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is I guess since you're going  to focus on historical numbers on WhiteWave can you help us with where Horizon is in its profitability curve? I know in the past you've said if you can get it to like a normalized FDD margin high single digits you think that's a fair number to use longer term.
But is that still in play? And where are we relative to that target currently? Akshay my lawyer across the table is waiving me off on forward-looking guidance with regard to any of the WhiteWave businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay I tried.
So then just a follow-up on -- just on your FDD business a lot's been made obviously of the Midwest drought impact on milk prices.
You clearly have laid out your view on milk prices.
But can you just help us from a sensitivity standpoint as to what percentage changes in milk cost are due to your P&amp;L? And perhaps if -- and I -- and maybe you don't want to be quantitative but perhaps you can help us at least qualitatively think about in the past when milk prices went up 35% in some of the years 2001 specifically '08 that I remember milk prices went up 35% and your FDD EBIT went down by a similar amount.
So mathematically there's a pretty high correlation between the price of milk and your FDD margins.
So I understand that all the initiatives that you've taken probably changed that relationship such that it's not as sensitive.
But can you just help us there because that's really a hard question to answer -- but since -- for us from the outside? But it seems like you're making a pretty strong statement that despite what's going on in the Midwest you still feel pretty good about FDD going forward.
Well we did try and give you some numbers in the prepared remarks and I will just refer you back to them.
So we gave you a graph with a range of 6 economists.
The highest economist in that graph had a Class I milk price in Q4 in the sort of $19.50 to $20 average price range and we quantified the expected effect on FDD in Q4 of about $10 million or $0.04 a share.
So that's our best estimate today of the negative effect of rising milk prices.
So look we are not intending to make a strong statement that our FDD business is not -- it's profitability is not inversely correlated to milk prices.
It is.
When milk prices go up the profitability on our FDD business is going to go down.
It is mathematically accurate because there is causation there and that's why it's correlated.
What we are saying is that the level of profitability that we would expect to make today given -- at a given milk price versus what we made 2 years ago at a given milk price is higher because we've taken out $150 million of fixed costs between now and then right? So we are starting from a higher base today and we expect to end up at a higher floor.
But we still expect to see a negative correlation between high milk prices and FDD profitability.
Research Division</strong> And just one...
There's -- as you think through the rest of the year if you go back to last year Q3 our average Class I Mover was $21.41.
In Q4 it was $18.83.
So sequentially the cost of milk is going up but versus the last year it'll still be declining.
So just keep that in mind as you think through the numbers.
Research Division</strong> And one -- just last one on -- again on FDD.
I mean one of the most positive things about that business is its free cash flow generation capability.
I know that had been somewhat limited because of the CapEx you were spending on restructuring.
Can you help us just directionally at least as to what one should expect sort of post the spin or just going forward? Do we -- should we expect any meaningful change there such that CapEx as a percentage of sales for that business should be lower now that sort of the restructuring projects are behind you? Yes I don't think we can give you a perspective on what it looks like post-spin.
I will say for this year the plan for Dean Foods in total is about $250 million in free cash flow for the year is our current forecast that we have out there.
So I think that should give you some perspective on it.
That has quite a few onetime -- yes there's quite a few onetimes in there so.
Cash expenditure is in that number.
We expect FDD to remain a robust cash generator.
I'll go ahead and take our next question from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if you can answer this question but I guess it's kind of backward looking.
So if you could just Gregg just talk about WhiteWave's core competencies for a second.
I always thought that the strength of it was that it added a very disciplined marketing approach to an organic and natural category -- surrounded -- which is a very fragmented space that probably doesn't have the same kind of blue-chip marketing return on marketing analyses.
And I guess I -- what I'd like to know is do you look at it the same way? And do you look at it therefore as something that could extend beyond just beverages and into other types of food products? Well I'm going to make an effort to answer that question and try and keep it historically focused.
So we built WhiteWave as a value-added dairy alternative business within what was a more commoditized lower-margin business of Dean Foods.
And we built it to have best-in-class consumer products goods capabilities.
So we intentionally moved it 800 miles from our corporate and dairy group headquarters in Dallas so that it would have a separate identity and we recruited top talent out of the CPG worlds in order to build our management ranks and then we invested relatively heavily in capabilities that you would expect: consumer insights research and development world-class brand marketing.
And I think the results are what you've seen historically with respect to the performance of that business.
And what we have as of today is a business that is built around large national-scale brands brands with several hundred million dollars each in terms of aggregate revenue and supported by a very well-invested and largely new national manufacturing footprint.
So yes we built it to be a best-in-class consumer packaged goods company and I think that's what we have.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so I don't know if you can answer this but is it a -- therefore just a beverage company? Or can it be something else? Can it -- and maybe that'll be tabled for a different day.
I think we need to table that for a different day.
And we'll take our next question from David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> How much of the profit growth this quarter and I'm really thinking about the FDD division was productivity? And how much did that productivity in the year-over-year contribution basis differ for -- if at all from the first quarter? I think productivity was relatively consistent quarter-on-quarter.
I don't think there was much differential there.
I think we're pretty consistent in terms of Q1 and Q2.
So I don't -- I think the contributions are relatively consistent.
Research Division</strong> And would that -- I mean put in whatever terms you wanted gross profit dollars or gross margin whatever you want to -- however you want to put it would -- how much of that gain in the quarter was productivity versus the other factors? David I think you're trying to get at the same question as one of the earlier analysts hoped at which is how much of FDD profit improvement was driven by falling milk price and how much was driven by other factors that aren't correlated to lower milk prices.
And therefore what does that apply for the forward outlook? And it's hard to completely give you a surgical answer around how much was productivity and how much was price.
What I will say is this.
The second quarter's typically better than the first quarter.
The second quarter is a better quarter because you have schools in you have ice cream building you have relatively good volumes.
Clearly this is a quarter in which milk prices came down but we had much of that benefit in Q1 as well.
So the business is executing well.
It's executing well in terms of its efficiencies of operation it's executing well in terms of price realization in the marketplace and it's executing well in terms of volume performance relative to the category.
And we have been benefited by an improving commodity environment.
So I expect the first 3 of those factors to continue going forward that we'll continue to execute well on productivity on price performance in the marketplace as it relates to the movements of the commodity.
And that we will continue to perform well relative to the category with respect to volume but the commodity environment is going to reverse and that's going to provide some headwind to us rather than a tailwind.
I can't give you any quantification of that beyond the quantification that we addressed in our prepared remarks and in answer to one of the questions.
And just a reference point for you David.
If you look at the gross profit growth in Q1 versus -- Q1 versus last year Q2 versus last year we grew Q1 FDD profit 1% we grew Q2 2% on basically a similar volume.
So there's -- some of it is in gross profit and the rest of it is cost reduction.
The other thing to keep in mind is fuel costs.
So fuel costs in Q1 versus Q1 of last year were higher a step-up than they were in Q2.
Now that is actually an important point that Shaun just hit on which is there are other commodities that impact FDD performance here aside from milk.
And many times in the recent past when the milk commodity has been going up so have our other significant commodity inputs including diesel fuel and resin.
That is not the case today.
So we see a rising milk commodity environment but we don't see the same sorts of inflationary pressures at least to the extent we have in the past with respect to other important inputs in the FDD cost matrix.
Research Division</strong> And if I can squeeze one follow-up.
That would be on the profit per gallon in the dairy category.
It looks like that profit per gallon that's available to the retailer and to Dean is going up.
In the past we've often wondered and sometimes been disappointed that Dean didn't seem to be getting its fair share of changes on that.
It was more of a pass-through for Dean than it was for the retailer.
But in this case it looks like Dean is getting more or certainly its fair share of any profit increases per gallon and maybe that's some of the things you talk about with the diesel.
But also it doesn't look like it's a pure pass-through that you're recapturing some actual pennies per gallon.
Is that fair? And if that's happening why is that happening? I don't think it's really a fair characterization of what's happening.
We have pretty good with our private label customers pretty good pass-through mechanism up and down.
What is happening is we're -- we have some mix shift towards our branded products as we mentioned in our prepared remarks where we have a higher-margin structure.
So as the mix shifts back towards brands we benefit.
And the other thing that frankly is driving the profit per gallon is the amount of costs we've taken out of the business.
So that we are benefiting from.
At this time I would like to turn it back over for any additional and closing remarks to Gregg Engles.
Well thank you very much.
I just want to wrap up by saying we're pleased to have reported an excellent second quarter we're pleased to have filed the S-1 for the IPO of the WhiteWave Foods Company and we're excited about the future prospects of our collective business here.
So thank you for your attendance on the call and we look forward to continuing to communicate with you as this process evolves and at the latest as of Q3 results.
Thank you very much.
Once again that does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is a property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution or retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we issued our earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods' website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
The earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided today are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude the expenses related to facility costs and reorganizations expenses related to asset write-downs expenses related to litigation matters goodwill impairments IPO-related costs gains or losses from the divestiture of assets and other nonrecurring items in order to enable you to make a meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods.
The earnings release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated results along with the reconciliations between GAAP and adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding our branding initiatives expected cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business including the potential sale of Morningstar any spin-off or other disposition of our remaining ownership interest in The WhiteWave Foods Company and the succession plans of our executive officers.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and in our earnings release.
Given the timing of the WhiteWave IPO which was completed just over a week ago the related management changes -- and the related management changes today's call will be a bit different from our usual format.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Engles our Chairman; as well as Gregg Tanner our CEO; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us for the call today is Chris Bellairs CFO of Fresh Dairy Direct who will be assuming the role of CFO of Dean Foods following our year-end reporting cycle allowing a smooth transition from Shaun.
Mr.
Engles will start us off by providing an overview of total company and WhiteWave performance followed by Mr.
Tanner with a review of Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar results.
Mr.
Mara will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg Engles for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg Engles for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
We were pleased to be able to successfully complete the initial public offering of The WhiteWave Foods Company late last month and I'm excited for the future prospects of both companies.
We successfully raised $368 million in net proceeds in an offering that represented 13.3% of the economic interest in the WhiteWave Foods Company.
In addition as part of the IPO process WhiteWave established a $1.35 billion credit facility.
Proceeds from WhiteWave's initial borrowings plus net IPO proceeds were used to retire $1.16 billion of Dean Foods' debt including all of the 2014 term debt maturity lowering the overall leverage of the Dean business.
We are also currently in the process of exploring a sale of the Morningstar business.
The successful completion of a sale would serve to further leverage Dean Foods and significantly increase financial flexibility going forward.
While I will remain Chairman of Dean Foods until the WhiteWave spin-off in connection with the IPO I assumed the role of CEO of the WhiteWave Foods Company.
Gregg Tanner has assumed the role of CEO of Dean Foods.
Gregg is a highly capable executive and I am very confident that he is the right person to lead Dean Foods in the next phase of its development.
His 30 years of broad experience at companies like Hershey ConAgra and Quaker have brought significant value to Dean during the first 5 years of his tenure.
In that time he has led the transformation of our supply chain network and has been an instrumental leader in our broad cost-reduction agenda.
Prior to his promotion to CEO he served as the President of Fresh Dairy Direct and Chief Supply Chain Officer where he drove the impressive return to growth the platform has experienced in 2012.
We also announced today that as part of the changes at Dean Shaun Mara will be transitioning the CFO role over to Chris Bellairs in the coming months.
Shaun has helped instill tight cost discipline at Dean and his leadership has been valuable in helping to lead the turnaround of the business.
I am grateful for his service.
I am equally confident in Chris's ability in his new role as CFO.
Chris has been groomed for this role during his time serving closely with Gregg Tanner as the CFO of Fresh Dairy Direct and the finance leader of our supply chain function.
Gregg and Chris have surrounded themselves with a strong and capable management team and I'm excited to see where they can take Dean Foods in the years to come.
We will also be transitioning leadership of our legal department over the coming months from Steve Kemps to Rachel Gonzalez.
Rachel has served for 5 years as our Deputy General Counsel and has led much of the Fresh Dairy Direct and Dean Foods public company legal efforts over the past few years.
Following the transition of responsibilities Shaun and Steve will remain in consulting roles for several additional months.
Before I begin a discussion of Q3 results as a point of clarification I would like to remind you that the third quarter ended prior to the completion of the IPO.
This is reflected in today's presentation of our reported results which includes 100% of WhiteWave outpost third quarter results consistent with previous earnings reports.
Later in the call Shaun will walk you through how our earnings will be reported on a go-forward basis.
So turning to the results the solid momentum across the business continued in the third quarter with each of our businesses posting strong growth.
Operating income increased 25% at WhiteWave-Alpro 32% at Fresh Dairy Direct and 54% at Morningstar.
Consolidated adjusted operating income improved 35% to $145 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.33 was 83% above year-ago results.
On a year-to-date basis gross profit is up 6%.
Adjusted operating income is up 38% and EPS has increased over 100%.
The strong success of our business this year is the result of a focused set of agendas that maximize the strategic advantages of each business.
As of the end of the third quarter total Dean Foods leverage defined as net debt to EBITDA stands at 3.71x a decline from 3.96x at the end of Q2.
With that overview let's look at each of the segments in a bit more detail.
To start I'll discuss WhiteWave-Alpro results.
WhiteWave-Alpro's momentum continued in the third quarter.
The powerful mix of on-trend categories leading brands and highly effective innovation and marketing continued to deliver strong top and bottom line growth in the quarter.
In total third quarter WhiteWave-Alpro net sales grew 13% over the prior year to $598 million.
This strong growth was led by our U.S.
Plant-based Foods and Beverages platform.
Aligned with the long-term emerging consumer trends for healthy and sustainable products the Plant-based Beverage category continued its strong growth in Q3.
Over the past year household penetration of Plant-based Beverages in the United States has grown by 200 basis points.
The most recent 12-week data shows category growth of over 20%.
As the leading brand in the category Silk is the main driver and beneficiary of these category dynamics.
In the third quarter Silk PureAlmond was once again the strongest performer in the platform while Silk soy continued to stabilize on the strength of Silk Fruit&amp;Protein.
Additionally Silk PureCoconut continues to perform well broadening the appeal of the overall product set.
Consistent with the first half of the year the strong growth in Silk PureAlmond PureCoconut and Fruit&amp;Protein products resulted in Q3 North American Plant-based Food and Beverage net sales growth of over 20%.
Our European Plant-based Foods and Beverages platform also continued to perform well.
Fresh drinks including the rollout of our new almond and hazelnut beverages and yogurts continued to post strong growth.
Our core European markets of the U.K.
Belgium the Netherlands and Germany continue to generally outperform the southern part of the continent.
On a constant currency basis Alpro net sales increased high single digits in the quarter.
With the impact of the stronger dollar Alpro net sales declined low single digits in the quarter after currency conversion.
Turning to our Coffee Creamers and Beverages platform the long-term trend towards increased coffee consumption continues to create a favorable category dynamic for this platform.
And increasingly consumers are choosing to whiten and flavor their coffee adding variety and great taste to their coffee occasions.
Our Coffee Creamers and Beverages platform is well positioned to capitalize on these long-term trends through continued brand innovation and building.
Iced Coffee has been an important part of the growth story this year and we continue to spend to support its rapid development.
Much like the first 2 quarters of this year our Coffee Creamers and Beverages platform posted net sales growth of over 20% in Q3.
Looking at our Premium Dairy platform early in the year we increased our pay price to our farmer partners to help offset rising feed costs.
We also instituted a corresponding price increase at that time.
Despite these factors net sales growth continues to be solid.
We see particularly strong performance in our innovative and differentiated single-serve and DHA omega-3 products.
This strength helped deliver a mid-single-digit increase in Q3 net sales.
Consistent with the first half of the year WhiteWave-Alpro Q3 volumes were up strongly.
Net sales increased 13% to $598 million.
We continue to invest in production capacity innovation and brand building in Q3 to drive future growth including increases in marketing well ahead of our growth in sales.
Despite these investments our tight cost management and volume leverage resulted in operating income growth of 25% to $64 million and operating margins expanding to 10.7% an increase of over 100 basis points year-over-year.
We are very pleased with the positive momentum at our WhiteWave-Alpro segment and look forward to the next phase of The WhiteWave Foods Company's evolution as an independent company.
I'll now turn the call over to Gregg Tanner to discuss the Q3 results at FDD and Morningstar.
Gregg? Thank you and good morning everyone.
Before I begin I would like to thank Gregg for his strong leadership of Dean Foods over the last 2 decades.
I'm confident that under his leadership the WhiteWave Food Company will fulfill its potential as one of the premier food and beverage companies in the world.
I'm honored and humbled by the opportunity to become the CEO of Dean Foods and I'm excited about our future as the country's leading and largest dairy company.
I'm excited because this is a business with many unique advantages.
We have significant scale being 5x the size of our next largest competitor.
We have a unique national footprint and one of the largest refrigerated direct store delivery networks in the country giving us national reach and a local touch.
I believe our network optimization and supply chain management efforts have made us one of the most efficient profitable operators in the country and we will continue to push that advantage going forward.
And bar none I strongly believe that our organization has the best talent in the entire industry both in management and throughout the rest of the company.
I would also like to take a minute to thank our employees for their continued focus and commitment to Dean Foods.
Our company has experienced great change over the past few months.
But our team has stayed focused on our priorities and that has translated into results that you're going -- you're seeing today.
I feel very fortunate to be leading such a talented team and we believe that our future success will be driven by leveraging our advantages toward our streamlined agenda of volume price and cost.
At the same time we are uncompromising in our focus on quality of our products the safety of our employees and the service we provide to our customers.
Our financial flexibility is vastly improved.
Looking ahead with a strong cash flow and return on invested capital focus our financial strength should continue to improve.
I believe we have a very strong foundation for Dean to drive significant shareholder value in the years to come.
Turning to Fresh Dairy Direct results for the third quarter we continue to execute our plan.
Starting with volumes.
While the fluid milk category remained somewhat soft our focus resulted in continued outperformance versus the industry.
On an absolute basis FDD volumes declined 2.2% versus the balance of the industry that experienced a decline of over 3%.
Excluding the impact of the divestiture of our Waukesha facility last year from this performance our fluid milk volumes declined 1.4% in the quarter.
Absolute volume for the category in FDD was impacted by the quality of days in the third quarter.
The USDA publishes an adjusted volume number and methodology that normalizes for quality of days.
On this basis the overall fluid milk market declined approximately 1.8% in the third quarter and the FDD fluid milk volume declined 1.1% before adjusting for the impact of Waukesha.
Adjusting this figure for the Waukesha divestiture yields and adjusted FDD volume decline of less than 0.5%.
In line with the continued softness across many of our other categories volumes across much of the balance of our product portfolio continued to be a bit soft.
Inclusive of cultured products ice cream juice tea and water total volumes excluding Waukesha declined approximately 2% from the year-ago period.
As we said last quarter fluid milk costs are rising.
We are focused on effectively pricing to cover this commodity inflation.
From a base of $15.24 in June the Class I Mover increased more than $2 per hundredweight through the third quarter with prices rising each of the 3 months.
Retailer pricing of fluid milk pulled back modestly in the quarter to produce a private label margin over milk of $1.64 compared to $1.74 in Q2.
Despite this pullback pricing remained at levels we view as healthy.
But we are watching it closely.
We do not anticipate a return to the deep discounting seen in 2009 and 2010.
In fluid milk I'm proud of the job our sales team did to ensure that we efficiently pass these costs through and limited the negative impacts of rising commodity costs.
In ice cream and cultured products which represent about 12% of our volume the pass-through was less efficient and our pricing fell behind as Class II milk cost also rose significantly throughout the quarter.
Class II butterfat increased from $1.49 per pound in June to over $2 per pound in September.
We continue to work to enhance our pricing protocols and risk management strategies to better insulate this part of the business from commodity volatility.
This will be an area of enhanced emphasis going forward.
Overall gross profit per gallon remained above year-ago levels.
And I'm generally pleased with the pricing performance in the quarter but also recognize that we still have considerable work to do.
We will continue to be challenged by inflationary cost pressures in the fourth quarter and we expect our teams to maintain a similar level of focused pricing discipline.
Looking at Q4 milk prices will continue to rise.
The Class I Mover in October was $18.88 and the November Class I price has been set at $20.70 per hundredweight.
December is likely to be a bit higher than November resulting in a Q4 average price that is over 20% higher than Q3.
We expect prices to peak in Q4 and begin to modestly decline in the first quarter of next year.
Cost containment continues to be a key component to driving our success in an area where we think we have significant capability advantages over our competitors and plenty of additional opportunities.
This is a key point to remember when considering our ability to navigate challenging commodity environments today versus previous cycles.
Comparing our FDD and corporate cost structure in the third quarter of 2010 versus third quarter of 2012 demonstrates the solid cost-reduction progress we've made over the past 2 years.
FDD and the corporate structural fixed cost and interest expense were $70 million lower in Q3 2012 than they were just 2 years ago or between $250 million and $300 million lower on an annualized run rate basis.
And we continue to focus on cost reductions and debt reduction through a strong cash flow emphasis and strategic actions like the IPO of WhiteWave and potential sale of our Morningstar business.
And in Q3 we continued to make progress against our cost focus.
FDD costs of product processing decreased 1% and SG&amp;A declined 13% from the year-ago period.
We also realized a 4% decline in fuel usage as we continue to drive routing efficiency and a 6% reduction in milk case purchases as we focus on better tracking and recovery.
Continuing our cost reduction efforts we just announced the closure of our Bangor Maine facility.
Decisions to close facilities are never easy but the dynamics of our industry require that we continue to work to lower our fixed cost.
This action will increase our efficiency in the upper Northeast and improve our competitiveness in that region.
Despite challenging category volume and commodity trends our success in driving our focused agenda of volume price and cost resulted in continued strong growth and profitability.
Q3 Fresh Dairy Direct gross profit was $504 million roughly flat with year-ago results although at 3% improvement in gross profit per gallon from year-ago levels.
Disciplined cost management leveraged our gross profit performance into $100 million of adjusted operating income a 32% increase over the year-ago period.
While we still have significant opportunity to drive value across our 3 focus areas of volume price and cost I'm pleased with the progress in the quarter against the challenging commodity and consumption environment.
Q4 presents continued challenges.
However looking ahead I expect we will continue to improve our ability to navigate both favorable and challenging environments.
Turning to Morningstar this business continues to perform well.
With strong volume and profit growth driven by innovative products close customer partnerships and a disciplined cost-focused culture total Morningstar volumes increased 6% in the third quarter primarily driven by strong sales of the ESL creamers and milk ice cream mix and iced coffee.
Our away-from-home business which accounts for 2/3 of total Morningstar volumes continued to be a main driver of our growth.
Volumes in this channel increased in the mid-teens.
Solid volume growth offset by pass-through of more favorable dairy commodities versus last year resulted in Morningstar's net sales of $338 million down 3% from year-ago quarter.
Positive mix shift strong cost control and pricing discipline drove a 27% increase in segment gross profits to $61 million.
Morningstar's commitment to cost control leveraged 6% volume growth and 27% gross profit growth into operating income that was 54% above the year-ago period at $31 million.
We continue to be very pleased with the performance of the Morningstar business.
As we have announced we are in the midst of a process that could result in the sale of the Morningstar business.
This is obviously a very desirable business.
We expect we will make an announcement when and if we sign a definitive sale agreement.
In summary all 3 of our operating segments posted strong results by focusing on their respective core strategies.
We have strong momentum heading into the fourth quarter.
With that I'll now turn it over to Shaun who will take you through the consolidated performance for the quarter.
Shaun? Thanks Gregg.
Good morning everyone.
Before I begin I want to start by saying how much I've enjoyed working with the Dean team and with our investor base over the past 2 years.
I am grateful for my time here.
But with the changes in the business I felt like it was the right time for me to move on.
I will stay on through the year-end close to ensure a smooth transition and fully expect the handoff to Chris will be seamless.
Chris Bellairs is a seasoned financial executive with significant experience at Procter &amp; Gamble Pepsi Iron Mountain and the U.S.
Army.
In his 4.5 years at Dean Foods he has served as Gregg Tanner's long-time lieutenant and CFO roles of both supply chain and Fresh Dairy Direct.
Chris is a strong and capable leader and has been instrumental in helping to steer the FDD business back to growth.
Chris is well prepared to be the CFO of Dean Foods going forward.
Turning now to the results for the third quarter all of our operating segments turned in strong results.
And once again we held corporate costs in check resulting in 35% growth in operating income and 83% growth in EPS.
Consolidated gross profits increased 6%.
Operating costs increased 1% as strong cost control efforts were partially offset by increased advertising and higher incentive compensation expense.
SG&amp;A excluding incentive compensation and advertising declined $23 million or 12% in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis these costs have declined $83 million from 2011.Q3 operating income of $145 million is 35% higher than the same period last year.
Reduced debt balances and lower effective interest rates drove a $10 million decrease in interest expense resulting in an 84% increase in net income and 83% increase in EPS.
Turning now to the cash flow and the balance sheet.
We had a solid quarter of cash flow and debt reduction.
Total net debt decreased by $111 million to $3.4 billion.
Debt reduction was aided by proceeds of $56 million related to the sale of our minority interest in Consolidated Container Corporation.
This sale triggered a tax liability of $90 million which will be paid in the fourth quarter.
Through the first 9 months of the year cash flow from operations totaled $354 million capital spending totaled $163 million and free cash flow was $191 million.
Also through the first 9 months of this year net debt has declined $270 million.
This coupled with a strong EBITDA growth drove our leverage ratio of net funded debt to EBITDA as defined by our credit agreements down to 3.71x at quarter end.
This is more than 1.5 turns below or 5.5x in maximum covenant and 1 full turn below where the ratio stood a year ago.
Including deleveraging from the IPO and the Q4 tax payment associated with the consolidated container sale we now expect that total Dean Foods leverage ratio as defined by our credit agreement and excluding the WhiteWave Foods Company to be approximately 3.5x by year end.
In a minute I will turn the call over to Gregg to take you through the forward outlook.
However before Gregg takes you through the guidance I want to take a moment to explain 3 buckets of differences of how we report results post-IPO and more specifically the impact on our guidance on a post-IPO basis.
Importantly you will see that at the end of the day the adjustments do not change our overall EPS guidance for the year or for the fourth quarter.
I want to make it clear that these adjustments on this page and the guidance Gregg will give reflect our expectations including the WhiteWave-Alpro segment.
These adjustments reflect the 2 post-IPO months of the fourth quarter.
Additionally this guidance is not intended to be indicative of the results for the WhiteWave Foods Company on a separate stand-alone basis.
The WhiteWave Foods Company will issue its own guidance later in the fourth quarter following the expiration of the IPO quiet period.
The first adjustment you will see reflects changes made to the business relationships across our 3 segments in preparation for the IPO to change from a cost-plus cross-segment pricing methodology to agreements that reflect what we believe to be more market pricing.
For the 2 months of Q4 post-IPO we estimate this change will shift $4 million to $6 million of operating income from WhiteWave-Alpro to Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar with no impact to total Dean Foods.
Second as a result of the IPO a significant amount of Dean Foods' corporate costs will shift to the WhiteWave-Alpro segment.
This represents long-term incentive compensation costs that were previously held in Dean Foods corporate G&amp;A as well as additional G&amp;A costs to the WhiteWave Foods Company as a result of being an independent public company.
We expect these additional costs to reduce WhiteWave-Alpro's Q4 operating income by $8 million to $10 million.
This will be offset by $6 million to $8 million of reduced corporate costs at the remaining Dean Foods resulting in an incremental $1 million to $2 million of cost for total Dean Foods.
Third because Dean Foods will remain the majority owner of the WhiteWave Foods Company its results will be consolidated in the Dean Food results with a below the line adjustment to back out the unowned minority.
We anticipate a $3 million to $5 million minority interest adjustment in the fourth quarter.
Additionally I would note that interest expense at WhiteWave-Alpro related to new borrowings will result in approximately $4 million of Q4 interest expense at WhiteWave-Alpro.
At Dean debt reduction resulting from the $1.16 billion payment from WhiteWave-Alpro is expected to reduce Q4 interest expense to approximately $45 million excluding the WhiteWave-Alpro interest expense bringing total fully consolidated Q4 Dean Foods interest expense to approximately $49 million.
Going forward Dean and the WhiteWave Foods Company will issue separate earnings releases and hold separate conference calls with the investment community.
With that explanation of the changes to our guidance related to the IPO I will turn it over to Gregg who will take you through the forward outlook.
Gregg? Thanks Shaun.
Due to the quiet period around the IPO my comments will be limited primarily to Dean Foods but including the WhiteWave-Alpro segment.
I would also note that the guidance for WhiteWave-Alpro is not intended to be indicative of the anticipated performance of our expectations for the WhiteWave Foods Company on a separate stand-alone reporting basis.
The WhiteWave Foods Company management expects to communicate expectations for their business following the expiration of the quiet period later in the fourth quarter.
First on a pre-IPO basis looking at how we saw the year playing out by business segment when we spoke to you last quarter versus where we see it now you can see our expectations have risen across the business.
For the WhiteWave-Alpro segment we said we expected strong momentum to continue in the back half of the year.
Third quarter results were strong and we expect continued momentum in Q4 resulting in full year WhiteWave-Alpro segment operating income growth of around 20%.
At Fresh Dairy Direct last quarter we said we expected mid- to high-teens full year operating income growth.
We expect the upside from Q3 to more than offset the impact of higher-than-expected commodity costs and any hurricane impacts in Q4.
So while we continue to expect Q4 FDD operating income to be down on a year-over-year basis we have increased our full-year expectations for operating income to grow in the high teens to 20%.
Q3's outperformance has provided a bit of breathing room against this target as we navigate a more challenging commodity environment in Q4 giving us confidence in our ability to hit our full year segment operating income target.
And at Morningstar strong growth across the business has continued and we are increasing our expectations for full year operating income growth accordingly.
We now expect Morningstar operating income to be above year-ago levels by an amount in the mid-20%s reflecting expectations for continued momentum to finish out the year.
So on an apples-to-apples basis we're increasing our full year guidance for the performance of each of our business segments and for our consolidated results.
On a fully consolidated basis we expect operating income growth of mid- to high-20%s for the full year resulting in full year earnings per share of between $1.27 and $1.32 or $0.27 to $0.32 in the fourth quarter.
This full year guidance compares to our previous guidance of $1.18 to $1.28 per share that we issued in August.
Overall the various IPO-related adjustments will create some minor shifts between segments but as Shaun noted will not affect our EPS guidance which remains $1.27 to $1.32 per share both before and after the IPO-related adjustment that Shaun just discussed.
In summary this is a momentous time for Dean Foods.
Our performance across all of our businesses through the first 3 quarters of this year has been strong.
This performance has put us in position to create significant shareholder value through the IPO and potential spin-off of the WhiteWave Foods Company and the possible sale of Morningstar.
The end result is an independently valued WhiteWave with strong growth prospects and a Dean Foods with significantly increased financial flexibility to continue pursuing its strategic imperatives.
Thank you again for joining us today during this important time for our companies and for all of those who follow this company closely for listening to my earnings remarks for over 60 consecutive quarters.
I will now conclude our prepared remarks and ask the operator to open the line for your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  We'll take our first question from Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg just want to talk about -- certainly a strong quarter and a really strong guidance too.
And as you indicated milk prices are rising.
So I just wanted to get your view on what gives you the confidence that in this environment you're still be able to perform better than what the market is expecting at this time? Well let me take a sort of a high-level shot at it and then I'll see if Gregg Tanner wants to amplify my comments.
But we've noted now for several quarters that we have been taking steadily and significantly cost out of our structural fixed cost base both in the FDD business and in the corporate overhead structures that lie above the 3 operating businesses.
And that's resulted frankly in just a structurally lower cost base against which we're operating.
And that cost takeout continues period-over-period.
So it's mitigating some of the margin pressure that we face in a rising margin environment.
In terms of this particular cycle while no one's crystal ball is clear I think we believe that with the rising milk price environment that we've experienced up through the third quarter and into the fourth quarter we're well more than half of the way through the path from the trough to the peak of this commodity cycle.
And you see the performance that we've delivered here it's been solid performance.
Much of it comes down to the work that Gregg Tanner and his organization have done with respect to streamlining the focus of their group and I'll turn it over to Gregg to make a couple comments about that.
Yes thanks.
I would tell you that the other thing beyond just the fixed cost base coming out is the fact that we've got some really good pricing discipline in the field.
Our sales organization has done an outstanding job of being focused on this starting back when the commodity started to rise.
And I believe they've done a great job of staying on top of it especially on the fluid milk or the Class I side.
We still have opportunities on the Class II side or cultured.
But I'm very pleased with how they've made it this far through the cycle.
And as Gregg said we expect that to start to mitigate itself in the first quarter of next year and then fall into its normal seasonal trends that we've seen in the past.
The other thing is is there's been no real deep retail discounting this cycle and that makes a big difference from our perspective as well.
And we don't anticipate that that will happen again.
We don't think in 2009 and '10 that it worked very effectively for the retailer then and so we don't believe they're going to do it again.
We'll go next to Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess on the FDD business just maybe get your perspective on the volume outlook.
Clearly I think the pricing discipline has been a positive and you've done a great job taking out cost.
But I guess the industry volume continues to be under a bit more pressure.
So what is your expectation in terms of volume outlook for balance of this year and into 2013? And can you take out more cost more quickly if the volume pressure continues? And is there more market share opportunity that you can go after? Yes Judy I'll take that try to take it [indiscernible].
If I look at the volume in the third quarter and you put it on an adjusted basis it gets back closer to the historical declines.
Our expectation is that we'll continue to see 1 point to 1.5 point decline in the category and our expectation is that we'll continue to outperform the category.
I do believe that we have considerable opportunity to continue to bring our fixed cost base down which then allows us even additional flexibility to adjust and variablize our cost structure further than what we have to-date.
So I think if the volume continues to decline which we believe the category will continue to decline I also believe there's new business that we can continue to go after that's still available to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can just ask about the Morningstar and as you think about the strategic options and evaluating potential sale of that business I guess how much is it driven by the need to really improve the FDD's financial flexibility particularly as the cost environment is more challenging in the near term and even with the paydown of debt from the IPO proceeds that you're left with 3.5x kind of leverage.
Do you think that that is a reasonable leverage for FDD plus Morningstar to kind of maintain going forward? Judy this is Gregg Engles.
The potential sale of Morningstar gives us a lot of optionality.
So the disaggregation of the business starting with the WhiteWave IPO and ultimately spin and then considering the Morningstar transaction I think really is an effort to deliver to our shareholders the implicit value that we feel exists in the portfolio of where our businesses have very very different trading multiples.
So we believe that Morningstar is a business that has inherently higher growth rates and higher returns on capital than the FDD business that it should trade at a significantly higher multiple.
We just happen to believe that in this circumstance the best way to realize that multiple benefit for our shareholders is through a sale as opposed to a public market transaction.
Frankly if it turns out that those values don't materialize in this process which I do not expect but if that happens we're happy to own that business as part of Dean Foods.
There are certain complements between the businesses although they have very different sales and go-to-market strategies than the FDD business which is DSD the Morningstar's businesses warehouse.
But in other ways they're complementary businesses between the 2 companies.
So really it is an effort of the board and the senior management of the company to say "How do we put the value inherent in Dean Foods' businesses into the hands of our shareholders over a reasonably short period of time?" And that's the exercise that we're going through.
At 3.5x leverage following the IPO I think that is a corporation.
We're quite comfortable with that on a combined FDD-Morningstar basis coming out of what will be this rising commodity cycle.
We feel like we have good momentum in both of those businesses and we like where we're positioned.
FDD stand-alone obviously a sale of Morningstar if it happens will again meaningfully delever FDD and leave it with I think a very robust balance sheet to pursue its strategic imperatives as a stand-alone business.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
We'll go next to Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Yes.
Just on Morningstar I was wondering you've had a couple of really strong quarters here and we haven't maybe had as much information about the improvements that you're seeing over there and what's driving a lot of that year-over-year growth in operating income.
Just curious is that a cost? Are you reducing costs? Is it efficiency gain? Can you be more specific in terms of where you're seeing the improvements? Yes.
Christine this is Gregg Tanner.
On the -- probably the 2 biggest things is the innovation that the Morningstar team has put in the marketplace and their really close partnerships with some of their major customers.
And so they've been able to innovate and put new products out in the marketplace that have -- has really driven their volumes.
And that volume has really translated into the cost leverage.
They've done an outstanding cost of -- or outstanding job of managing their cost structure as they leverage their volume up.
And so I think the combination of the 2 of those has really helped their results.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up you mentioned the impact from the hurricane just curious if you could quantify where you saw the losses or if it's too early to estimate on that? Yes.
I think it's too early to estimate because there are still a number of stores and schools who have not reopened and we're not sure when they will reopen.
So I think it's too early to estimate.
What I can tell you is from a property perspective of our 13 facilities across the East Coast we had minimal impact.
We did lose power at one facility for an extended period but I think our planning and preparation for the storm and having the advance notification really allowed the teams in the field to do a great job of working through that.
And we had backup generators available and we've had no physical or structural damage to any of our facilities.
So I think it's just another example of why having a major network during times like this really pays off.
So we were shipping a lot of product between different plants to make sure that our customers' needs were met.
We'll go next to Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One question 10 parts.
Here we go.
Okay let's start with your -- I guess Gregg Tanner your commentary around the milk cost kind of peaking in the fourth quarter and then I guess starting to come down in the first quarter.
Why do you think that's true? Well I would tell you that I think it's mainly because of the supply side.
I think we will continue to -- the supply side -- production side September was the first month in 2 years where the production was not above a year ago -- or above previous year.
And so what we are seeing is is that on the volume declines that the production side is going in the same direction.
So our belief is that with exports being down and -- that's going to help drive.
So as the butter costs come down our Class II prices will fall off mainly because of the holiday season.
And that will then start to bring Class I down shortly thereafter.
So we just -- we're convinced that as we look at the holiday season I think the Class II is being held up by that.
And with the cheese exports declining our belief is that that's going to drive Class I down in the first quarter next year.
Okay.
I think Eric to put a little -- to put a bow on it while you do have some pressure on the supply side we're just now starting to have negative year-over-year comps.
And the U.S.
price level is so significantly above the world price levels that you're starting to see a significant falloff in exports.
So demand is falling faster than supply here.
And frankly the grain complex has stabilized and drifted down.
And farmers are not in a significantly negative position today given these prices.
So we don't expect the volume of supply to continue to fall off.
And we've got robust stocks of all of the commodities that influence the price out there in the marketplace.
So we have a survey of 5 dairy economists I think.
The vast majority of them are aligned to this view that we're peaking in terms of price today.
And absent some unforeseen circumstance you'll see the price start to drift down in its normal sort of seasonal cycle when we get the early -- late winter and early spring flush of dairy production next year.
Eric let me just add a little more color to that.
If you look at the gap that Gregg spoke to as far as the international price versus the domestic price on cheese you've got an international price of $1.80 a pound.
You've got $2.10 domestically.
You look at butter at $1.44 internationally and about $1.90 or $1.88 in domestic market.
So those 2 just can't sustain themselves at that level.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess just stepping back for a second and I guess either Gregg can answer this one.
But what is -- how should we think about Dean and let's combine it with Morningstar for the moment but how do we think about like the long-term dynamics for the business? Category has been in decline forever but you're taking share you're taking cost out.
So what is that -- how do we think about the income statement for Dean and your goals for the business over time? Well I'll give you my thoughts and I'm sure Gregg will have an opinion on this as well.
I would tell you that I think the opportunity in the near term Eric is that we still have tremendous cost opportunities across I think both businesses more so on the FDD side than we do on the Morningstar side.
So I think there's tremendous value to be created and continuing to focus on the fundamentals as we have in 2012.
Beyond that then you start to get into the longer-term plans.
And we really haven't flushed out the longer-term plans yet at this point.
We're doing that as we speak and we will be out in the first quarter of next year starting to share that with everyone as to what that vision for Dean Foods in the future looks like once we get through the IPO and we get through the Morningstar potential sale.
So I would tell you that I think there's significant opportunity to continue to drive cost to continue to outperform the category.
We've had good success with a couple of our new products.
We think we can continue down that path to try to mitigate some of the volume and category decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Gregg Gregg Engles last question.
So let's say that you sell Morningstar you delever the Dean core business and at a certain point WhiteWave is spun out.
So what is the -- from I guess the board's perspective what is the right return to -- of cash to shareholders on a business that's inherently going to have pretty low I guess growth prospects on the top line? So how should we think about that? Well again I think that they will come into sharper focus over time once we ultimately know what Dean RemainCo's balance sheet looks like following all of these transactions.
But I think what you'll have left is much as Gregg described a business that is clearly the predominant player in a very very large marketplace that albeit slightly declining still is a mid-$20 billion category where it has significant advantages in terms of size and scope and network 5x as large as its next largest competitor increasing its share through the leveraging of its efficiencies into the marketplace as the category slowly declines.
That I think we believe over time generates a stable and slightly growing P&amp;L and generates an awful lot of cash.
So I mean that's I think how we see the business of the FDD core business going forward on a stand-alone basis.
I think the first thing that we'll do with that cash is to the extent the board decides that it wants to further deleverage the business from where Dean RemainCo ultimately settles out following all of these actions it'll use the proceeds for debt paydown for some period of time.
And then I think it will -- I believe the board in its exercise of its oversight will find a way to return that cash to shareholders on a go-forward basis.
And I think that decision will to some degree depend upon what happens here legislatively over the next several quarters as we figure out what the net after-tax benefits of putting that cash in shareholders' hands is going to be across the various alternatives that we have.
But Dean will be a quite unlevered significantly cash-flow-generating business going forward.
We'll go next to Farha Aslam with Stevens Inc.
Research Division</strong> As you consider the sale of Morningstar could you just share with us kind of the timing of when that decision would be made and what the cost basis is of that base Morningstar business? No.
We're in the middle of a process.
These things sort of aren't on -- they're not on rails like a train where you can say we're going to be in Hoboken in -- at 10:17.
But the process is well along.
It is a robust process and we'll be back to you when we have an answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so maybe I can ask a follow-up on that base Dean business.
Kind of going back to Eric's question do you -- have you laid out if the business is a combined business or a separate business what your cash flow ROIC targets are and if you'll pay a dividend out of that new business? We're in the process right now Farha of going through our process for 2013 and how we're developing our plans.
We haven't done that work at this point in time.
We'll come back to you in the first quarter with a better answer on that.
We'll go next to Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
This is Gretchen calling in for Alexia.
So at the beginning of the year you had noted some concerns over the shortage of organic milk constraining growth of Horizon but that has held up pretty well.
So what is the outlook from here on out and how secure is your supply over the coming quarters in 2014 let's say? Gretchen I think we feel very good about where we are from a supply perspective for organic milk.
So organic really was ahead of conventional in this cycle so we gave pay-price increases to our farmers in the back half of 2011 and in the front half of 2012 that I think put them in a better financial position.
We passed those price increases along into the marketplace which slowed the volume down a little bit which has brought supply and demand back into better balance.
We think over the long term this -- the base organic milk category is sort of a mid- to high-teens growth category.
And as we lap those price increases I think we'll start to revert to that type of growth rate in organic.
And we're well positioned to some supply it in the marketplace.
Great.
And then if you could WhiteWave is still trading below its IPO price.
So how are you thinking about that? Is that surprising to you and what do you think investors are missing here? Or what sort of concerns are being expressed by the market? I really am not spending a whole lot of time thinking about it.
We had a roadshow where we sat down in front of close to 100 highly sophisticated investors in this transaction.
They produced a really robust order book.
We priced this thing in an efficient traditional way.
There's a lot going on in the market since we priced this stock.
There's absolutely nothing that's changed with respect to the business that we didn't articulate in the roadshow.
And I think that WhiteWave will find its legs.
And at the end of the day the value of that company will be based upon the sort of growth in sales and earnings that we produce as a management team going forward.
And as you heard from our prepared remarks today we're incredibly bullish on the outlook of the WhiteWave-Alpro segment.
We'll go next to Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about Morningstar just to follow up on some of the comments made earlier.
I think it was outstanding performance this quarter.
In light of what happened with the commodity the Class II was up sequentially and on a year-over-year basis.
Can you help us understand a little bit better why gross margins were up about 400 basis points? I think if you go back to the discussion we had on cost and efficiency and how we're driving that in our plant I think that's a big part of it.
I think we have a good mix of product which is in there.
And I think we have a nice job doing the pricing protocols to make sure we're passing through those costs overall.
I'd also caution a little bit to use probably not so much a percentage of sales.
We look at it as more on a per gallon basis because of the impact of cost -- the underlying commodity cost below that.
So I think we've done all the things that we wanted to do to improve the efficiencies of those plants that are helping drive our margins overall.
Yes.
I think Akshay really that last point is an important point here.
If you look at profitability per unit at the gross margin line it's increasing for the reasons that Shaun articulated in the first part of his answer.
But a big driver here in these dairy-based businesses is that margins expand when raw material costs fall and raw materials costs period-over-period were falling in that segment.
So I think that's how you got to think about it.
If you look at our gross profit per gallon for Morningstar versus Q2 it's relatively flat.
So it's [indiscernible] trend.
Research Division</strong> And just one question on fluid milk or FDD generally longer term and this is for Gregg Engles.
I agree with most of the comments you made about deleveraging and a really good cash flow profile.
But I just wanted to get your perspective on stability in that business.
It's been anything but stable and I understand part of that's just related to the commodity environment.
But can't we just assume today that commodities are going to be much more volatile? I mean that seems to be the case with every commodity that we follow and milk is no exception.
And so help me understand why you still think longer term this is a stable earnings business.
Well I'm not going to suppose for a second that we've repealed the commodity cycle or its impact on our business.
But if you look at this business over the -- a time period that spans more than quarters and now what you see is you suffer some in terms of margin when the prices of the commodity are going up and you benefit when the commodity is going down.
And if you look at stability in a time frame that spans more than next quarter I think this business has always been a very steady cash flow generative business and we don't really expect that to change.
The really exceptional period in the performance of this business was the sort of 2010 early 2011 period characterized by very very deep discounting in the retail environment and lots of dislocation in the industry during that period.
I really don't expect at this point in time to see that repeat itself.
So the business is a profit-making cash flow-generating business over time.
It's much less leveraged now than it was in the past.
That will improve further with the sale of the Morningstar business when it happens.
And so I think the board and -- will look at it and I think investors should look at it as in terms of not what's going to happen in Q2 or a particular year but what's happened over the past 4 quarters and what they ought to expect to happen over the next 4 quarters.
I think the other piece that you can't underestimate here is the cost takeout.
I think we're better able to handle these commoditive volatilities as we work through this commodity cycle is because we have taken the costs out.
I think as Gregg alluded to in his prepared remarks on an annualized basis from 2010 we're about $250 million to $300 million in reduction in our cost basis and including interest expense and plant costs.
So that helps us weather those storms a lot better now than what we did a few years ago.
I think that I would just add to that that I think the deleveraging of the business gives us flexibility to drive that further.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Gregg Engles for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
I would just like to thank you all for joining us on the call this morning for your interest in Dean Foods over the years and your interest in Dean Foods and The WhiteWave Foods Company going forward.
And we appreciate your hard work and understanding the business and your excellent questions and both Gregg Tanner and I look forward to interacting with you and the investment community broadly in the years to come.
So thank you very much.
Thank you all.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any from without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Barry Sievert for opening remarks Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shelley and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we issued an earnings release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Also available during this call at the Dean Foods website is a slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks.
A replay of today's call along with a slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses related to facility closings and reorganizations asset write-downs and litigation matters as well as goodwill impairments transaction-related costs gains or losses from the divestitures of assets and other nonrecurring items.
In addition pro forma adjustments were made to include Morningstar in continuing operations eliminate the noncontrolling interest adjustment for the portion of the WhiteWave Foods Company that we do not own and to reflect transactions between our segments under our former intercompany operating agreements.
This is shown this way to enable you to make a meaningful evaluation of our operating performance between periods and to make reasonable comparisons to the guidance we gave in November 2012 and our reported 2011 adjusted results.
In addition we are in the midst of a transformation of the business from 3 operating platforms to 1.
In order to show meaningful comparisons for the periods presented we will be presenting a second view of our 2012 financial results which is adjusted to exclude Morningstar and WhiteWave.
It also incorporates the new market priced cross entity pricing agreements.
This view is designed to give investors a base for modeling the business on a go-forward basis after the WhiteWave spin-off.
The earnings release contains a more detailed discussion of the reasons why these items are excluded from the consolidated results along with reconciliations between GAAP and pro forma adjusted earnings and between net cash flow from continuing operations and free cash flow from continuing operations.
The WhiteWave Foods Company released fourth quarter results and held an investor conference call earlier today.
We will not be discussing their results but would refer you to their press release Form 8-K filing and the replay of their conference call which is available on their website at thewhitewavefoodscompany.com for more information on their performance.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business including the proposed spin-off or other distribution of our remaining ownership interest in the WhiteWave Foods Company.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Shaun Mara our Chief Financial Officer.
Greg Engles our Chairman and Chris Bellairs who will be assuming the role of CFO of Dean Foods following our year-end reporting cycle are also on the call this morning to participate in the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Mr.
Tanner will start us off with an update on the WhiteWave spin-off plan the Morningstar sale and the review of Dean Foods fourth quarter and full-year performance.
Mr.
Mara will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Mr.
Tanner for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Mr.
Tanner for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call this morning.
As I'm sure you've seen from the press release the fourth quarter marked a solid finish to a very strong year.
Before getting into the results however I'd like to provide an update on our effort to unlock shareholder value through a separation of WhiteWave from Dean Foods.
We recently reviewed the private letter ruling from the IRS required to ensure the tax-free nature of the spin-off of WhiteWave Foods Company from Dean.
As a result we are moving forward with our plans to affect the full separation of the business.
The post-IPO lockup period expires April 23 2013.
Accordingly our plan is to spin-off shares to Dean Foods shareholders in late May.
We plan to retain up to 19.9% of the outstanding WhiteWave shares or up to 34.4 million shares which we expect to monetize or distribute in a tax-free manner at a later date.
In connection with the spinoff in our Annual Shareholders' Meeting in May we are also looking -- working toward initiating a reverse split of Dean Foods shares.
The ratio of the reverse split has not been determined.
We are pleased to reach the final stages of this strategic realignment of Dean Foods and gratified by the shareholder value we have been able to unlock through this process.
As you know in addition to the WhiteWave IPO and spin-off activity we also announced the sale of the Morningstar business to Saputo for $1.45 billion in the fourth quarter.
The sale which was completed on January 3 significantly strengthened Dean Foods' balance sheet and increased our financial flexibility.
I'd like to thank the Morningstar employees for their many contributions and dedication to Dean Foods over the years and wish them well in the next chapter of their business lives.
Dean will continue to support them in many ways for 6 to 12 months through customary transition service agreements.
We expect the Morningstar transaction to result in at least $887 million in net proceeds after tax payments and transaction expenses including the $60 million paid to WhiteWave in the associated asset sale.
Tax payments associated with the Morningstar sale will begin -- will not begin until the second quarter allowing us to benefit from the additional cash on our balance sheet for some time and lowering our 2013 quarterly leverage and interest expense.
We expect to pay 1/2 of the total tax bill in Q2 25% in Q3 and the remaining 25% in Q4.
These proceeds are combined with our strong 2012 operating cash flows and the proceeds related to the WhiteWave IPO we have reduced total net debt outstanding at the Dean Foods level by over $2 billion in the last year.
Let me repeat that.
We have reduced total net debt outstanding at the Dean Foods company by over $2 billion in the past year.
As of the end of the fourth quarter total net debt outstanding excluding WhiteWave's standalone debt stood at $2.3 billion.
Dean Foods leverage ratio as defined by our credit agreement was 3.54x a decline from 3.71x at the end of Q3.
This is a reduction of over a full turn from the end of 2011 and more than 1.5 turn below Q4 2010.
This is before the impact of the Morningstar sale which I noted earlier closed early in 2013.
On a pro forma basis which includes the expected after-tax net proceeds from the Morningstar sale and excludes the related EBITDA our leverage is 2.85x.
Furthermore due to the timing of the tax payment schedule our only current outstanding debt is our $1 billion in bonds.
Following the Morningstar sale and excluding WhiteWave our interest expense run rate is approximately $115 million per year which is over $100 million decline from 2010.
We are very pleased with the progress of these transactions and their positive impact on the Dean Foods balance sheet.
We are in a strong position to move forward with our strategic plans including our accelerating -- our cost reduction efforts which I will discuss later in the call.
Now let me turn to the operating results for the quarter.
On an adjusted pro forma basis which is consistent with 2011 adjusted results and our fourth quarter guidance we earned $0.40 per diluted share a 48% increase from a year-ago period and well above our guidance of $0.27 to $0.32 per share.
Q4 marked our sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year operating income and EPS growth.
For the full year pro forma adjusted consolidated earnings per diluted share of $1.39 or 81% above 2011 adjusted earnings.
Fourth quarter adjusted pro forma consolidated operating income of $157 million compares to $135 million reported in Q4 2011 a 16% year-over-year increase.
Full-year adjusted pro forma operating income of $611 million was 32% above 2011 levels.
As I mentioned earlier we continue to deleverage the company reducing our debt outstanding at the Dean Foods Level excluding WhiteWave debt by $1.4 billion over the course of 2012 through strong operational cash flows and the WhiteWave IPO.
Overall I'm very proud of our employees in the fourth quarter and full-year 2012 that they delivered in the face of a challenging environment.
With that overview let's look at the performance of the business in a bit more detail focused in particular on the ongoing Dean Foods Fresh Dairy Direct business.
At FDD our employees are to be commended for the results they delivered through a continued focus on the fundamentals of the business which include volume performance cost control and effective pricing to offset the impact of commodity inflation.
And importantly we delivered these objectives while never losing sight of our commitment to quality safety and service.
This has resulted in a strong turnaround in the business in 2011 and 2012.
In 2012 the results of our focus were clear.
We drove material cost reduction across the business we grew share and gained customers and we effectively priced to offset rising commodity costs resulting in significantly increased profitability.
Our field organization effectively passed through inflationary commodity costs in the third and fourth quarters.
Class I raw milk prices rose materially every month of Q3 and Q4 hitting a near historic peak of $21.39 in December.
This is the third highest month in the last 5 years and 40% above the low of the year hit in June.
On average the Q4 Class I price was 23% higher than the previous quarter.
Despite this challenging rise in costs in the back half of the year and Q4 in particular fourth quarter gross profit per gallon was above both Q3 and year-ago levels demonstrating the benefits of our focused agenda and beginning to break the old paradigm that we're reliant on favorable commodity prices to perform.
The Class I Mover hit its near-term peak in December.
Since then prices have declined in both January and February and are expected to fall again in March.
The Q1 average price is expected to be approximately 10% below Q4.
Looking ahead while varied economists have varied opinions we expect Class I prices to trade in a relatively narrow range and to average roughly this price level through at least the first half of the year.
Despite the rise in retail prices industry volumes improved in the fourth quarter from third quarter levels.
As we discussed last quarter the USDA publishes an adjusted volume number and methodology that normalizes for the number and quality of days in the period.
On this basis industry fluid milk volumes continued their trend of improvement declining just under 1% in Q4 from the year-ago period.
Although we are lapping some volume gains from a year ago our volumes continue to outperform our peers in the fourth quarter.
This better industry volume performance is a significant and welcome improvement from earlier trends.
Total overall industry and Dean Foods volumes are likely to dip slightly on an absolute basis in the first quarter due to the overlap of leap year.
However on a per-day basis our volumes through January are tracking at levels consistent with the improved fourth quarter trends.
Consistent with our strategy we also maintained our focus on cost reductions in 2012 helping to deliver solid bottom line results.
Initiatives across distribution manufacturing and SG&amp;A reduced cost and helped drive our turnaround in 2011 and 2012.
You can see the dramatic impact when you look at our Q4 2012 spend versus Q4 2010.
More specifically we reduced SG&amp;A costs excluding incentive compensation and advertising by $51 million in the fourth quarter from Q4 2010.
Across the supply chain we more than offset inflation to reduce costs excluding fuel by $15 million in the fourth quarter.
And as a result of our focus on debt reduction our interest expense in Q4 2012 was $11 million below Q4 2010 levels.
Adding this up over the past 2 years excluding the impacts of advertising incentive compensation and fuel we have reduced expenses at FDD and corporate by over $77 million per quarter.
Annualized this equates to over $300 million of yearly cost.
With debt reduction from the net proceeds of the WhiteWave IPO and the Morningstar sale we expect our interest expense to decline by an additional $25 million per quarter.
The elements of our focused strategy came together in Q4 to deliver solid results.
Q4 Fresh Dairy Direct gross profit was $509 million roughly flat with year-ago results despite the significantly more challenging commodity environment.
Disciplined cost management parlayed our gross profit performance into $102 million of FDD operating income on an adjusted pro forma basis a 2% increase over the 11% growth posted in the year-ago period and the fifth straight quarter of operating income growth for this platform.
With a significantly strengthened balance sheet and clear momentum behind our core objectives we enter 2013 on solid footing.
With that I will turn the call over to Shaun for a review of the consolidated P&amp;L.
Shaun? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q4 and full-year results by platform and then take you through the P&amp;L for the same period.
These slides show adjusted pro forma Q4 and full-year 2012 results on the same basis as our guidance and reported 2011 adjusted results allowing for an apples to apples comparison.
Again this includes Morningstar's results as well as our intercompany pricing in place prior to the WhiteWave IPO.
The fourth quarter was stronger-than-expected particularly in FDD.
As Gregg noted FDD delivered 2% growth in Q4 operating income despite significant commodity headwinds.
Morningstar's strong 31% growth was driven by continued innovation and close customer partnerships.
And WhiteWave's advantage categories strong stable of products and new innovations delivered strong growth with operating income 12% above year-ago levels on a pro forma adjusted basis.
Corporate expenses declined 13% from prior year as we continue to focus on reducing SG&amp;A costs across the business.
The net result for Q4 was consolidated operating income growth of 16% and full-year operating income growth of 32%.
It is this strong performance from across the business that has enabled the value-creating strategic actions like the Morningstar sale as well as the WhiteWave IPO and planned spin-off.
Looking at the pro forma adjusted P&amp;L view which again presents an apples-to-apples basis to 2011 and our guidance Q4 gross profit increased 4%.
Operating expenses were up slightly driven largely by increased advertising and fuel costs.
Although SG&amp;A costs were flat overall SG&amp;A costs excluding incentive compensation and advertising declined $10 million or 5% from the year-ago period.
As I mentioned operating income increased 16%.
Also as a result of our debt reduction interest expense was $7 million below year-ago levels.
The result of all this is Q4 net income growth of 47% and diluted EPS growth of 48% from the year-ago period.
By a pro forma adjusted basis for the full year 2012 gross profit increased 5%.
Operating expenses were flat despite a $29 million increase in advertising.
In fact SG&amp;A excluding incentive compensation and advertising declined $93 million or 11%.
Operating income of $611 million was 32% above 2011 levels.
Below operating income a $33 million decline in interest expense and flat tax rate translated into full year net income growth of 83% and 81% growth in diluted EPS to $1.39 for the year.
Overall 2012 represents a strong turnaround for the business from the challenges we faced in 2010 and 2011.
2012 was also a very successful year from the cash flow perspective.
Full-year operating cash flow from continuing operations which excludes Morningstar was $384 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $228 million resulting in free cash flow from continuing operations of $156 million.
This strong cash flow augmented by the strategic actions taken to date had allowed Dean Foods to reduce net debt by over $2 billion over the past 12 months putting the company on solid financial footing and in a sound position to spin off WhiteWave in May.
Finally as Gregg mentioned earlier our plan is to retain up to 20% or a 34.4 million share stake in WhiteWave to provide Dean significant financial flexibility going forward.
As we look to 2013 the new Dean Foods will be reporting much different than the results we just reviewed.
The first big change is that we will exclude the results of Morningstar from Dean Foods results due to the sale.
Second concurrent with the spin-off in Q2 we will also exclude WhiteWave from Dean Foods results and record it as a discontinued operation.
Lastly our reporting will also account for changes in cross-entity pricing as part of the separation of the businesses which we discussed on the Q3 call and implemented in November 2012.
Therefore Slide 15 shows 2012 results on a basis consistent with how we will report the business after the spinoff and going forward.
We wanted to present the 2012 results on this basis to provide a foundation for 2013 comparisons as we think it is the best view of the ongoing business.
To walk across the page the changes in cross-entity pricing increased FDD's base operating income by $12 million for 2012.
The move of Morningstar to disc-ops results in a $6 million increase in corporate costs representing a reversal of corporate costs charged to Morningstar that were not directly assignable to Morningstar.
Additionally when WhiteWave results are disc-opped at spin-off it will result in a credit of $8 million to Dean Foods' corporate expenses representing incremental signable cost above previous allocations.
The net result is a revised 2012 base for FDD of $440 million of operating income that represents the 2012 results assuming the new intercompany pricing as of January 1 2012.
A revised corporate cost spend of $184 million representing Dean corporate cost after eliminating a directly assignable cost from Morningstar and WhiteWave as of January 1 2012 yielding a consolidated 2012 operating income number of $257 million and a 2012 EBITDA number of approximately $435 million which is consistent with the structure of the business in 2013.
We have provided more detail including quarterly presentations and reconciliations in our press release today.
Additionally because we will only have one operating platform with all corporate activities focused on supporting FDD when the spin-off of WhiteWave occurs we plan to report corporate and FDD together as one segment.
Finally today is my last call as CFO of Dean Foods.
I'd like to leave by thanking the employees of Dean Foods as well as our investors for their support.
My time at Dean has been extremely fulfilling and I think we have greatly improved the financial position of Dean for our shareholders.
As I move on I am confident in Chris Bellair's ability to fill the CFO role and believe Dean is well-positioned for continued success going forward.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg Tanner for comments on our corporate strategy going forward as a more focused lower-levered business as well as a review of our 2013 outlook.
Gregg? Thanks Shaun.
Clearly 2012 was a successful year for Dean Foods and with a narrowed focus and strong financial platform we are well-positioned across many fronts heading into 2013.
I'd like to now spend a few minutes discussing how we see the business going forward.
With the separation of Morningstar and expected full separation of WhiteWave from Dean Foods our focus will narrow to our core business of Fresh Dairy Direct where 3/4 of the business is focused on the fluid milk category.
The fluid milk category enjoys a number of attractive attributes.
First fluid milk is ubiquitous.
It is a nutritious and healthy product that is found in over 90% of U.S.
homes.
As a result fluid milk is a very large category with roughly $20 billion of annual sales.
This size and pervasiveness plus the perishability of the product make it an important category for retailers and consumers as well as a large long-term opportunity for the best-positioned processor.
However the fluid milk industry is not without some well-documented challenges.
A slow decline in consumption per capita lower birth rates demographic shifts have resulted in a flat to modestly declining fluid milk consumption.
Those factors combined with increased industry efficiencies has led to significant excess processing capacity over time.
Additionally the industry remains highly fragmented with over 150 processors in the U.S.
while the customer base of retailers has consolidated significantly over the past decades.
With these business dynamics we believe there are several reasons why we are uniquely positioned to win over the long term.
For example as a function of our scale and capabilities we believe we have unique opportunities to reduce costs and drive efficiencies that few of our competitors can match.
We are the largest processor and distributor in the country.
In fact we are roughly 5x the size of our next largest competitor and uniquely positioned as the only processor with a coast-to-coast network.
This position brings unique capabilities and cost-reduction opportunities.
We believe we have many years of significant cost-reduction opportunities ahead of us across the supply chain and SG&amp;A as we work to create a significantly advantaged low-cost position.
Our relative size means that in procurement for example we can drive greater savings across our major purchases like resins paperboard and fuel.
Also while the majority of our competitive set is comprised of relatively small operations with limited options for improving capacity utilization our coast-to-coast network allows us opportunity to significantly improve asset utilization drive efficiency and lower our cost per unit through network optimization activities.
We expect to accelerate the activities in this area which I'll discuss more in a moment.
Additionally because we operate dozens of production facilities across the country we are able to discover and distribute best practices through a professional continuous improvement team that works hand-in-hand with local management to increase in-plant efficiency through employee-led initiatives and workflow optimization.
In distribution our relative size and superior financial and technical resources allow us to use leading picking and routing technologies to increase the productivity of our distribution system and reduce miles driven and assets required.
Although we've been working to take cost out of distribution for several years we believe we have only begun to realize the opportunities to drive savings in this area of the business.
We have also materially reduced SG&amp;A expense over the past 2 years.
We plan to further reduce costs in this area over the coming years as we remove stranded cost left after the Morningstar and WhiteWave separations.
Our success in pursuing our cost reduction strategy is driven by the best employees and management in the industry and augmented by a strengthened financial position that increases our flexibility to invest in productivity and growth while continuing to deleverage.
Based on this model over the coming years we expect to average mid-single-digit consolidated operating income growth and to achieve and maintain leverage below 2.5x.
We will maintain a focus on free cash flow generation and total shareholder returns.
With that said our strategy for 2013 is relatively simple.
We plan to build upon our strengths through a continued focus on the core fundamentals that drove our success in 2011 and 2012.
We will continue to work to drive volume performance at attractive economic returns.
We have grown share over the past 2 years.
However business in our industry is regularly put out for bid.
In a recent bid by a significant customer we lost a portion of our low-margin private label milk volume.
As a result we expect our volumes to underperform the industry in 2013.
We believe this volume loss was a result of strategic sourcing decisions by the customer as well as pricing discipline on our part.
We feel very good about the business we kept with the customer and we continue to pursue other volume opportunities at price levels that make economic sense.
As a result of this RFP for 2013 we expect total volumes to decline in the low single digits.
We will also continue our focus on cost taking advantage of our unique position and cost reduction opportunities to create a significantly advantaged low-cost position in private label milk.
This is our #1 near-term priority and with our improved balance sheet we plan to accelerate our investment behind these efforts in 2013.
As I said earlier we entered the year with strong momentum behind our cost-reduction efforts and we expect to accelerate those efforts to offset the financial impact of declining volumes and reduce our overhang of excess capacity in our system.
On a fully loaded basis some of our private label business including the volume we recently lost was very low profit margins.
We will therefore move aggressively in 2013 and beyond to eliminate unnecessary fixed cost and underutilized capacity.
In 2013 that will mean an expedited effort to close more capacity than what was represented by the lost volumes.
In total we expect to accelerate the closing of 10% to 15% of our plants to eliminate fixed costs as well as an effort to eliminate a significant number of distribution routes as well as associated SG&amp;A.
These initiatives will provide some benefit in the back half of 2013 and will mitigate some of the impact of private label volume decline.
But their most significant benefit will be in 2014 and beyond.
Additionally major cost reduction initiatives already underway across distribution continuous improvement procurement and SG&amp;A will continue.
Lastly we'll continue to improve our pricing protocols to ensure that we pass through commodity inflation and reduce commodity-driven volatility in our results.
New pricing tools and increased focus have produced strong results that we plan to build on in 2013.
Turning to the forward outlook as we separate Morningstar and WhiteWave from Dean we will continue to focus on driving value in our core business and expect to build on the success of 2012 to deliver solid 2013 growth.
As discussed we are accelerating structural cost-savings initiatives including multiple plant closures and route reductions this year to significantly reduce excess capacity and increase our asset utilization and reduce costs.
We expect current volume trends to continue until the second quarter when the recently lost business will begin to transition out.
Overall for the year we currently expect a low-single-digit decline in total volumes and we expect to substantially offset the financial impact of the lost volume through accelerated cost reduction activities resulting in a mid-single-digit decline in the FDD segment's operating income.
However with significantly lower corporate costs we expect full year operating income for Dean Foods to increase low- to mid-single digits from the fiscal year 2012 perspective base excluding WhiteWave.
With the dramatic debt production of the last year we expect interest expense to be approximately $110 million to $115 million in 2013.
We expect our full-year tax rate to be approximately 37% to 39%.
As a result for the full year we expect diluted EPS of between $0.45 and $0.55 excluding WhiteWave and Morningstar.
After backing out depreciation and amortization and other noncash items we expect 2013 EBITDA of between $430 million and $460 million.
Full year 2013 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $150 million to $175 million.
This level of expenditure is above what we believe our long-term CapEx will be as we increase nearing spending to rightsize our network and increase asset efficiency.
Longer term we would expect CapEx to be roughly $125 million per year to focus on driving free cash flow and returning value to shareholders.
For Q1 we lose a day due to the overlap of leap year in 2012.
Inclusive of this we expect first quarter EPS of between $0.10 and $0.15 per share excluding WhiteWave.
Including the midpoint of guidance that WhiteWave gave for their results our consolidated guidance equates to an approximate EPS range of $0.22 to $0.27 for Q1 and $1 to $1.10 for the full year.
In summary Q4 was an important quarter.
Not only was it a solid finish to a strong year but for the second quarter in a row our field organization proved that they could meet the challenge of rising commodities and continue to perform.
We enter 2013 with strong confidence in our ability to pass through rising commodity costs dollar momentum in our cost-reduction initiatives and a continued focus on driving performance in a price-disciplined manner.
While we have some challenges in the year ahead our organization is focused and nimble with the financial flexibility to drive accelerated cost reduction and investment in the business to differentiate our competitive position.
I am confident we have the right leadership team and employees to drive continued success in 2013 and beyond and I look forward to meeting many of you in person in the months to come.
Thank you for your continued interest in Dean Foods.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call up to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg you mentioned 10% to 15% of capacity coming out and can you provide a little bit more color of what is the timeline of that capacity coming on and as it comes on I mean understanding what the volume impact for this year is next year in 2014 how does that impact operating leverage for the business? Let me start with our network and the opportunity and ability to optimize it I think gives us a real competitive advantage.
And I'll reiterate again that our balance sheet allows us to accelerate much of this optimization plan.
We're currently working through the sequencing and timing of each of those closures.
We've already announced 2 of those and we'll announce more in the coming weeks ahead.
But as far as the impact to 2013 we had identified about $80 million in cost reductions that were in our ongoing cost reduction program and we think that these incremental -- or the acceleration of these closures would give us another 50% on top of that.
So you could take another $40 million for 2013 and then you could translate that as you go into '14.
Got it.
And as a follow-up what gives you the confidence that the volume loss that we had in this -- in the second quarter will not repeat as we go along as other competitors come in and bid below you? I'm sorry the volume lost...
What I'm saying is you showed pretty significant pricing discipline and gave up the volume to preserve margins in that business.
What gives us the confidence that more of these volume losses will not occur in future? Well I think the biggest thing is being the low-cost provider.
We're going to assure ourselves that we're the low-cost provider no matter how or whether it's in the private label business or the branded business.
And I think the other thing that I would look to is is if you look back to the past 2 years we have gained share in almost every quarter for the last 2 years.
So we've been winning bids and taking share for the last 2 years.
It just happens to be that this bid was one where it got to the point where we didn't feel like we could go there.
And if I may have a quick quick follow-up.
The share -- the total shareholder return is dividend part of that equation as well? Shaun would you take that? What's the question again Amit? I'm sorry.
Sorry I'm saying that youre talking about total shareholder return given the strong cash flow is dividend part of that equation as well? I think in the future we'll talk through that.
I think right now we're working through the details of it.
Next we'll go to Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask first about retail pricing dynamics during the fourth quarter and into January as we saw Class I Mover push up to relatively high levels.
Did you see anything in terms of retail margins that suggest a greater willingness short term to sacrifice margin on their part? No we have seen nothing.
In fact it's been interesting to see that the category actually improved in the fourth quarter with increased retail pricing.
So we have seen no activity to tell us that we should have a negative impact to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And just one quick follow-up.
Just the interest expense guidance that you provided of $115 million just to clarify is that x WhiteWave and does that include the recognition of swap losses? It excludes WhiteWave and does not include swap losses.
[indiscernible] It's based on where we think the cash flow will be during the year.
[Operator Instructions] And next we will go to Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I maybe just follow-up on this question about the retailer environment? I'm sorry to push the point again but clearly in that particular region where you lost the volume you weren't the low-cost producer in that particular area.
What's to stop other retailers in that region from switching suppliers if there's someone else that is able to supply that retailer through lower costs? I'm just trying to figure out whether this is the beginning of the same kind of I guess renegotiation of contract that started in late 2009 or whether this really was an isolated incident that really is not likely to be repeated elsewhere.
Well I don't think that you can draw the conclusion that we were not the low-cost bidder mainly because this was set up as a regional bid and there was strategic decisions that were made by the customer to try to segment their business further.
So I wouldn't -- I wouldn't automatically assume that where we lost the volume that we were not the low-cost bidder.
What I would also tell you is that if you just look at the historical rates of bids that have been coming out we're not seeing any increased activity that would tell us that this thing is going back to the 2009 scenario.
Beyond that we have seen nothing that -- because I think the retailers played a fairly significant role in what happened in 2009.
And again we've see none of that activity.
So I guess you can never say never but we're not seeing anything that would indicate that's the case.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And maybe one quick follow-up.
That was really helpful.
On the outlook for commodity cost inflation across milk and diesel and resin prices how do you think -- see things shaping up during the course of this year? Well as we've said in the prepared remarks I think from a Class I perspective we expect it to be relatively benign.
It will be higher than 2012 but we don't see any significant ups or downs as we look to it.
Now will caveat that with that's all based that we will have an average corn crop this year and that we don't have a second drought like we did in 2012.
So from a Class I perspective I'm relatively comfortable especially with the first 6 months of the year that with the pricing we're seeing today is about what we'll see through the first 6 months and we don't anticipate it to change dramatically in the back half.
As far as the other basket of commodities we're not seeing a lot.
They're all about on their 5-year averages and as far as fuel and energy resin we don't really see any inflationary factors there.
And it built a little into our plans.
And next we'll go to Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to clarify on the corporate expense and interest expense sort of on going-forward numbers.
So corporate expenses based on the pro forma adjustments and your guidance looks like it's probably around like $160 million or $170 million for 2013 and I think that implies that only a modest amount went with Morningstar.
And I just wanted to see if there's a big opportunity to kind of take the stranded cost down on the corporate expense side.
And then at the same time the interest expense line it does imply that your debt cost still is pretty high.
So is there opportunity to refi some of those high-cost debt to get the lower interest expenses going forward? Judy take a look first of all at corporate expenses.
The '13 number you should be thinking about is probably $140 million to $150 million.
That's about what we have in our guidance that we gave.
We still think there's another $20 million to $30 million in stranded cost there as we think about the Morningstar and WhiteWave businesses moving out.
With that we're going to have a hard time getting to that until the CSAs that Gregg mentioned are over which is towards the end of this year beginning of next year.
So as you think about an ongoing number it's probably $110 million to $125 million but for this year it's $140 million to $150 million.
As you look at the interest expense the interest expense this year is basically our bonds effectively ascribing the incremental interest expense or the high-interest expense out there overall.
So we have the opportunity to re-look at that and some of that is callable.
The 9.875 is actually callable against 2014 but what you're seeing is really the fact that that number or the debt number as such driven by the bonds is driving up the interest expense number as a rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then I just wanted to get clarification as to the comment about the cost savings this $80 million kind of an ongoing cost reduction and then you said the capacity -- the plant closures driving another 50% on top of that and then in addition there's a corporate expense coming down over time.
So if you look out sort of 2014 and '15 it looks like those 3 components are likely to drive much meaningful growth versus kind of the mid-single-digit operating profit guidance that you've given on FDD.
Is there something that I'm missing just kind of on that math? I don't think there's anything you're missing in the math.
I mean it's consistent with what we had shared with you earlier.
So I would tell you that I think you've got at least the 2013 piece and that will ramp up in 2014 as we get the full-year benefits of many of the closures and additional closures in '14.
Just to clarify Judy the 50% more is not just the plant closures there's other things in there in distribution routes as well as some SG&amp;A.
So those are all inclusive of that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So run rate cost savings in 2014 still is $120 million? Run rate will probably be higher than that actually if you think through the -- when we're going to get the savings.
But yes the number for '12 was -- I'm sorry '13 will be more close to $120 million.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then it ramps up again in '14? Yes.
It's a full-year benefit.
Yes.
And next we'll go to Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Can you just clarify I guess on the cost saving side I guess what's the net number? How much is it going to drop to the bottom line in '13 and '14 because that $120 million -- $80 million to $120 million number is a pretty big number on your new adjusted base of $257 million of operating profit.
This is Chris.
Good question.
So the amount of cost savings that's going to drop is embedded in our guidance.
Some the cost savings will drop some of it is to offset inflation.
So the savings that we will see in 2013 similar to the way we've experienced the same levels of cost savings in 2012 in 2011 in 2010.
Kind of going back on our history on this program over the past several years we feel we have very good performance on the cost savings and some of some of it drops to the bottom line and some of it goes to offset inflation and other but the total amount for 2013 that you're seeing is included in our guidance that we gave today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the CapEx number going forward is the '13 number -- is that -- how much of that is maintenance versus the spending you have to do on the cost savings and I guess is that a good run rate going forward or might that come down over time? The go-forward number is about $125 million is what we think it's going to be.
I think you get a little bit higher than that in '13 and possibly '14 but the ongoing rate of CapEx we think is about $125 million.
I'm sorry I may add a little more color to that.
If you -- in normal circumstances about 40% of our GAAP spend would be maintenance spend.
Obviously as we take additional facilities out that maintenance spend will come down accordingly.
And one more point I guess Ryan on the cost savings we talked about I mean you say how much drops to the bottom line remember the volumes are down a little bit too so its going to partially offset that.
So it's kind of hard to say how much actually hit the bottom line but we are ascribing towards the $120 million number for '13.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly in terms of free cash flow for '13 and maybe '14 in that matter what are those numbers expected to be? Because I think I calculated maybe '13 could be $100 million and what will that be used towards? I think if you look at '13 there's a lot of activity that's going be involved from a cash standpoint of the separation of the businesses and everything else.
But if you exclude some of the onetime numbers there we think $75 million to $100 million for '13.
There's a high level of capital there as we talked about already.
If you basically look to the future it's probably $100 million to $150 million overall.
And then in terms of what we're going to do with the cash I think we have more work to do on that and come back in the next couple of calls on that one.
And next we'll go to Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess a lot of my questions have actually been asked but to follow-up on the free cash flow question I guess obviously this is a U.S.-based company with somewhat more limited growth prospects just inherently.
I guess why aren't you at the stage given what you know about your share position and the general free cash flow generation why aren't you in a position today to give us a little bit more guidance as to what your preference is in terms of share repurchase versus dividends? I mean again given the business and being at 2.5x EBITDA it's not like debt reduction is a -- would seem to be much of a priority.
I think Eric one thing you've got to think about we've talked about this share retention that we have and the monetization of that.
We've got to figure that piece out as we kind of go through the next 6 months and then from there to kind of decide what we want to do from a standpoint of what use of cash are.
We want to make the balance sheet a strength for Dean Foods.
I think we've progressed towards that with all the work we've done on the IPO as well as the Morningstar sale and that's going to continue through this monetization of retained shares.
So we will come back to that and we'll have a little more clarity probably either in the -- probably more in the second quarter call maybe the first quarter call.
We also have to figure out the bonds what we want to do with that and what's the payback in those things are.
There's a lot of moving pieces still on this and that's why we don't have a clear answer on it at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> So the monetization so the -- I thought that when you listed less than 20% that the tax-free ruling was given so that you could spin-out the rest and not sell a portion? I mean it sounds like that's changed or my understanding is incorrect because wouldn't the -- if you decided to let's say hold 19% of WhiteWave and then sell it wouldn't that be a -- would that be a taxable event and therefore the after-tax proceeds of what you sell would be less than they otherwise would be? Eric this is Gregg Engles.
Let me take the question.
We structured this deal I think in a way that gave Dean Foods a tremendous amount of flexibility.
So you'll recall on the WhiteWave IPO we established a high-low vote structure that allowed us to meet the requirement of distributing 80% of the vote which is what's required under our tax ruling to our shareholders but retained for Dean more than 20% of the net proceeds on a cash free basis.
So Dean is retaining 34 million and change in terms of shares of WhiteWave that it has a lot of flexibility with.
It can ultimately distribute those to its shareholders again and a second distribution on a tax-free basis or it can sell all of them or part of them again on a tax-free basis and retain the capital.
So Dean has got some things it's got to figure out in terms of what it ultimately wants its balance sheet to look like and that will be an important part of determining first of all what it's going to do with the bonds as they become callable or as they mature.
So the 2018 bonds become callable at 1/2 of the coupon so 4 and -- 4.9% or something like that at the end of 2014.
When you do the math on that you'll find that it is -- provides a tremendous interest expense reduction opportunity for Dean Foods beyond the 2014 time horizon.
And then the 7% bonds that Dean has outstanding the $500 million of bonds mature midyear 2016.
So Dean has got to figure out all of that because it's going to have to refinance effectively those bonds to capture the interest rate savings implied in either refinancing them into additional bonds or into the bank market.
So there are a bunch of moving pieces before we get the dividend policy.
But I would say I think it will all happen relatively quickly over the next few quarters as Shaun said.
The other point I will make Eric on that is we received as Greg said in the script that we received we our private letter ruling earlier this week or late last week and it was specifically called out in there.
So this will be a tax -- if we decide to monetize it it will be a tax-free piece of that.
Research Division</strong> So I guess just a last one but back to I guess either Gregg.
So if you're doing roughly let's call it $100 million of free cash flow and the implied value of Dean's shares today given WhiteWave's weakness is -- I mean I guess that works out to about 13% free cash flow yield but that -- it sounds like that should only accelerate because you're going to make a decision on the -- whether you monetize it the remaining WhiteWave asset or cut cost or reduce the interest expense et cetera.
So I mean it seems like you would have a fair amount of flexibility.
Is it as to what you do to reward shareholders? But that sounds more like with all these moving parts that it's like a 2014 event.
Is that a fair description? Yes I think what the policy will be will probably be determined in the back half of 2013.
Your supposition that the cash flows only get better here I think is correct.
As we redeemed ultimately these 2014 bonds interest expense is going to go down close to $40 million just by virtue of getting rid of those bonds.
So the cash flow of Dean is going to go up meaningfully over time the interest burden will go down meaningfully over the next several quarters which should give Dean a tremendous amount of flexibility as it thinks about how to return value to its shareholders.
And our next question is from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the base business could you just share with us in your fluid milk business what portion is private label and what portion is branded? Roughly? Yes it's about 30% to 35%.
Is branded.
Is branded and the rest is private label.
Which has been relatively consistent over the last couple of quarters.
[indiscernible] about that or actually our branded share has actually increased over the last almost 2 years.
I mean we're -- our branded share is as high now as it's been since 2010.
Research Division</strong> And so on that branded business are margins significantly better versus private label and do you think now your private label has stabilized after this share loss? It's really hard to say.
I would -- I believe that our branded business is in good shape.
I think we've got the pricing that we need as an organization and I think our private label business is -- I mean it just hasn't changed a lot over the last -- as far as mix over the last probably 4 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a final question.
Do you think -- since the issue wasn't that you were not the low-cost producer for this contract is it that your competitors are willing to take a lower return than you are and do you think that's going to impact that private label portion going forward? Do you think as you cycle into more kind of situations where you have RFPs that you are going to be able to meet the pricing required to win the business with the return hurdles you have? Yes.
I mean I think the -- the one clarification I would provide you is we are confident that we are the low-cost producer and I would also tell you that doesn't necessarily mean we will be the low-cost bidder in there that there's a very clear differentiation there.
So I think from where we're at we're going to continue to drive our competitive advantage from a cost perspective which I think gives us continued flexibility to be competitive in any environment that we're going to bid.
And we get the RFPs basically all the time...
It's a normal part of the business.
Go back to the last couple of years as Gregg said we've won more volume certainly over the last couple of years and this was like arguably the exception.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what was different -- sorry this is the last question.
What do you think was different about this RFP versus all the others that you faced? I think one of the things is is that there was a strategic shift by the customer that they were not looking for a national bid.
So they wanted to break this down regionally and locally by bidding.
We looked at it and kind of pooled different bids together regionally to make sure we were doing what we needed to do to have the price discipline that we expected for our shareholders.
And I think they -- we still maintain a significant business with that customer and I would -- we want to continue to service them as effectively as possible.
I mean...
And our next question is from David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Question on scale and M&amp;A.
Recently a couple of our industry friends have wondered aloud if Dean could even go further with some of the breaking up of the company.
Essentially the thinking is that the scale advantages have been limited for FDD and the dreams of synergies across the dairies particularly as it goes across regions and nationwide have dimmed therefore it makes sense to break up FDD essentially sell pieces to regional players or private equity.
Would there be any merit to such an idea or perhaps are there scale advantages or strategic value that Dean has from having a nationwide scale that we may not be seeing? I would first tell you that I don't think there's any value in breaking it apart.
I think there is significantly more value in having a national network and especially in an environment where you've got a consolidating retail environment.
So I would tell you that I don't see the value.
I mean we constantly look at alternatives to create value and -- but that is -- that's one that I just don't believe would be -- would create a significant amount of value.
And there's likely a pretty significant tax burden with that if -- to execute a strategy like that so we'd have to look at that in detail before we'd do anything like that.
If you look at our track record of cost and productivity over the past couple of years I'd suggest that a large portion of it is due to scale advantage and to the advantages our network provides.
So I think probably the analysis suggests the opposite.
And our next question is from Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I thought over the last couple of years one of the consequences of taking market share and getting more private label business and being aggressive in the bidding would be a positive for the industry because it might push some of the smaller players to exit the industry.
And you yourselves have said there's probably 25% to 30% overcapacity.
But I guess what I'm seeing today is that Dean is cutting back.
Dean is the one  cutting back and accelerating its plans to cut back which I think is a positive for supply and demand but I'm just wondering if -- have you seen any evidence over the past couple of years if you really look back that your competitors have reduced capacity as well? I would tell you that it has not had the impact that I guess I would've assumed as well.
We have not seen a lot of capacity come out of the industry.
I think from our perspective I think in many cases as we said in our prepared remarks I think we have a number of individual facilities or a limited number of facilities that don't give them opportunities.
So it is not a matter of increasing their asset utilization it is a matter of closing the door.
And so it limits their ability to reduce their cost structure where I think that's what our network provides us that nobody else has.
You'll recall how fragmented the industry is.
So if you're a 1-plant operation reducing capacity means exiting the industry.
Or if you're a 2-plant operation that lumpiness makes it hard for some of our competitors to do the kind of things that we can do.
Research Division</strong> Right.
How much capacity do you think you've reduced in the last couple of years from your own network? Yes I mean we've taken out probably 10 to 12 facilities and that probably translates to 10% to 15%.
Equal amount of distribution -- equal amount of distribution capacity so we're always optimizing in our distribution network as well.
So as we optimize the production footprint we do the same with distribution.
Research Division</strong> And then you have another 10% to 15% to go? Yes.
Next we'll go to John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thinking about the consolidation differently now that leverage has come down how do you view the opportunities to go out and effect more role of consolidation particularly in areas where you're underpenetrated across the U.S.? Is that an interest going forward? It's not something that's on our radar over the near-term at all.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Gregg just a follow-up thinking outside the 4 walls of the plants as you reduce facilities thinking about the G&amp;A expenses coming down and even opportunities maybe to reduce the overload or premiums over time is there any sources of cost outside the plant closure that you could hypothetically get at over the next few years? I mean I think you always have the opportunity to continue to look at the milk procurement side.
And I think we continue to look at that and see whether or not there is a need for us to do more independent milk or not.
And we have time for 1 additional question.
We'll go to Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about margins.
On the FDD business you talk a lot about gallons and profit per gallon.
I'm looking at your guidance and on volume and just -- I'm getting to profit per gallon EBIT per gallon around $0.14.
Historically I believe it had been around $0.20.
You're talking about cost savings of $0.04 to $0.05 a gallon.
Any reason why the historical number doesn't hold anymore? That's question one.
And the second question is what impact does moves in commodity prices especially milk have on your ability to increase EBIT at a mid-single rate over time? I'm sorry Akshay could you ask the second part of the question again.
I apologize.
Research Division</strong> Yes sorry.
The second part was milk prices have been extremely volatile and that may or may not be the norm but can you just help us understand the sensitivity for EBIT and the FDD? Because there's so many moving parts with your cost savings I'm sure that sensitivity changes.
So with your ability to grow at 5% your EBIT how is that impacted by changes in milk prices? Yes I'll take the second one first and it's a hard question to answer because as you said there are a number of moving parts.
So in addition to kind of the simple sensitivity model around a 5% or a 10% increase or decrease in the cost of Class I milk would yield this kind of change in EBIT there's also price thresholds to take into account.
So if the change is merely from $4.49 to $4.89 that might have a different result on the business than if you break a $4 or $5 barrier for example.
Additionally we do have a decent piece of our business that is on a fixed bid.
Many of our schools are on fixed bids.
So as the price of milk fluctuates up or down you wouldn't see the same impact there as you would in the business that's more formulaic.
So it's not easy for us to really translate that change.
And obviously given for example on the school business given the seasonality of that business it would dramatically affect the answer based on when you saw that change in Class I milk.
So tough for us to put a number out there that you can use and rely on kind of day in and day out as being the perfect sensitivity to Class I milk prices.
On your first question the number that you're calculating there the $0.20 to the $0.14 there's no doubt that the FDD's EBIT per gallon has come down over time.
We think we've done a very good job over the past 5 quarters of sort of bringing that number back up again.
And where we're at for guidance right now for both Q1 and for 2013 we think we've got the profit per gallon back to levels that are good for us and given the cost savings program we've got in place and the pricing discipline that we're always working on we think that the EBIT per gallon in 2014 -- 2013 and '14 is headed in the right direction as well.
Research Division</strong> But can you get back to historical levels on the EBIT per gallon as it was the real question? Because at your guidance longer-term doesn't seem to imply that you're getting there.
Yes I think that $0.20 number that you quoted earlier is a historical number that would be a tall order for us to get back to in the short run.
And this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Tanner.
Great.
Thank you all again for joining us for the call this morning.
I look forward to seeing many of you over the next few months and we appreciate very much your continued interest in Dean Foods.
And this concludes today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is a property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our first quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during the call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters transaction-related costs and other non-recurring items.
In addition pro forma adjustments were made to our 2012 results to reflect transactions between our segments under our current commercial agreements that went into effect upon the completion of the WhiteWave IPO rather than under the intercompany agreements that were in effect throughout the majority of 2012.
The WhiteWave Foods Company released first quarter results and held an investor call earlier today.
We will not be discussing their results but we'd refer you to their press release Form 8-K filing and the replay of their conference call which is available on their website at www.whitewave.com for more information on their performance.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings leverage ratios and various other aspects of our business including the announced spin-off of a portion of our ownership interest in The WhiteWave Foods Company and any future disposition of our remaining ownership interest in -- following the WhiteWave spin-off.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with an update on the WhiteWave spin-off plans and a review of Dean Foods first quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
As I'm sure you've seen from the press release the first quarter marked a solid start to the new year.
Although before getting into the results I'd like to provide an update on our effort to unlock shareholder value through the spin-off of WhiteWave from Dean Foods.
We are moving forward with our plans to effect the full separation of the business.
The post-IPO lock-up period expired April 23 2013.
On May 1 the Board declared a dividend of The WhiteWave Foods Company stock.
We will spin an aggregate of approximately 47.7 million shares of Class A common stock and approximately 67.9 million shares of Class B common stock of The WhiteWave Foods Company to Dean Foods shareholders as of the close of business on the record date of May 17.
Accordingly on May 23 we plan to distribute WhiteWave shares to Dean Foods stockholders of record.
Based upon the number of shares of Dean Foods common stock outstanding on March 31 2013 we expect that each share of Dean Foods owned will entitle the holder to approximately 0.256 Class A shares of WhiteWave and 0.364 Class B shares of WhiteWave with fractional shares to be settled in cash.
The final distribution ratios will be determined on the record date.
We will retain 34.4 million Class A shares or approximately 19.9% of WhiteWave which we plan to monetize in a tax-free manner within the next 18 months.
We are pleased to reach the final stages of the strategic realignment of Dean Foods.
Gratified by the stockholder value we have been able to unlock through this process I'm optimistic about the future of both companies as we look ahead.
Because the spin-off will deliver a significant amount of value to our shareholders in the form of WhiteWave shares we anticipate Dean Foods' share price will adjust lower concurrent with the spin-off.
As a result at our Annual Meeting next week we are seeking stockholder approval for a potential reverse stock split following the spin-off of WhiteWave.
We anticipate some volatility immediately following the spin-off as investors reposition their holdings.
Assuming stockholder approval of the reverse stock split proposal the Board plans to wait sometime before determining whether to enact the reverse split and if so the appropriate split ratio.
So turning to the results of the first quarter.
You see a continued focus on the fundamentals of costs volume and price.
The narrowed focus on the key drivers of the business and our company-wide "say what you'll do and do what you say" attitude have helped delivered 9 consecutive quarters of results at or above our guidance.
Beginning in the first quarter we have combined the results of our core dairy operations previously referred to as Fresh Dairy Direct and our corporate expenses into a single segment called Ongoing Dean Foods.
Our Ongoing Dean Foods segment which excludes all impacts from WhiteWave earned adjusted EPS of $0.16 per share as compared to our guidance for adjusted earnings of $0.10 to $0.15 per share.
Including the 86.7% economic interest of WhiteWave that we owned on March 31 2013 our consolidated Q1 adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.29.
This is a 16% increase from the year-ago period and above our Q1 guidance of $0.22 to $0.27 per diluted share.
For the Ongoing Dean Foods segment first quarter adjusted operating income of $74 million compared to $66 million reported in Q1 of 2012 on a pro forma and comparable basis a 12% year-over-year increase.
We also significantly deleveraged the company through the $1.45 billion sale of Morningstar.
Leverage at the end of Q1 stood at just 2.13x debt to EBITDA as defined by our credit agreements.
Over the past 12 months we have reduced Dean Foods' net debt by over $2.6 billion.
Total volumes across Ongoing Dean Foods business including fluid milk ice cream cultured and other products came in at 727 million gallons for the quarter a decline of 4.5% from 762 million gallons in Q1 of 2012.
Roughly half of this decline is directly related to the loss of 2 sales days in the quarter due to the overlap of leap year and the fact that March included 5 Sundays this year.
Within fluid milk our share of U.S.
sales volume held steady from fourth quarter levels at 38%.
Category volumes softened a bit in the quarter from recent trends.
The category declined approximately 3.6% on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize the impact of leap year and selling day quality between periods.
On this same basis we slightly underperformed the broader market and our competition in the quarter due to the recent loss of some customer volumes.
Our fluid milk volumes declined 4.1% on an unadjusted basis similar to our volume performance.
We believe roughly 1/2 of our fluid milk volume decline was due to the number of quality days in the quarter.
On an adjusted per sales day basis we believe the category was only down modestly from fourth quarter levels.
In recent quarters we have been publishing adjusted volume performance based on USDA data.
The USDA has not published adjusted data for the first quarter and it's not clear if or when they will again.
The overall volume performance was a result of solid growth in small format offset by continued weakness in the large format groceries certain mass merchandisers and food service.
Our nation-wide DSD system is giving us a competitive advantage as consumer purchasing patterns continue to shift milk sales from large to small format retailers.
We continue to focus on strengthening our volumes at margin-appropriate pricing levels.
However we expect our lower-margin private label volumes to continue to underperform the broader industry through the balance of the year due to the loss of a portion of a significant customer's business that we discussed last quarter.
Considering category trends in the first quarter and the coming volume losses over the rest of the year we now expect our full year fluid milk volumes to decline in the low- to mid-single digits.
A notable bright spot in our volume performance in the quarter was our flavored milk business under the TruMoo brand which continued to outperform the flavored milk category.
TruMoo was recently ranked as the fourth most successful consumer packaged goods brand of 2012 by Information Resources Inc.
or IRI out of 1 900 new CPG brands that were introduced in the U.S.
between 2011 and 2012.
The TruMoo brand was first introduced in August of 2011 when we reformulated and converted all of our flavored milk business to the new brand giving us the ability to innovate and market the product on a national scale.
Since its introduction in 2011 we have invested over $30 million in support of the brand.
TruMoo with 35% fewer grams of sugar than its largest rival lower fat and no high-fructose corn syrup represents a healthier and delicious flavored milk alternative.
This brand conversion and innovation has been very successful with TruMoo now 3x larger than the next largest flavored milk brand.
We are very pleased with the success of the TruMoo portfolio and expect the brand to continue to grow in the years ahead.
Turning back to the white milk category.
Retailers continue to price private label milk at levels consistent with historical norms with the margin over milk or the spread between the Class I Mover and the retail price of private label gallons at approximately $1.54 per gallon compared to $1.47 per gallon in the previous quarter and $1.65 per gallon in Q1 of 2012.
Price gaps between brands and private label in Q1 remain consistent with prior periods and were $0.05 per gallon above last year's levels.
We don't believe recent retail price trends suggest any evidence of a return to the aggressive price discounting that the industry experienced in 2010 and 2011.
Our priority brands continued to take share with our share of the U.S.
branded milk up over 1.5 in the last 12 months and 2.5 points over the last 2 years to 48.4%.
In contrast to the back half of 2012 Class I raw milk prices declined sequentially in Q1.
On average the Q1 Class I price was 10% lower than the previous quarter.
This sequential decline in raw milk costs helped drive a sequential improvement in gross profits.
Despite the decline raw milk prices remained 6% above year-ago levels contributing to a slight decline in gross profit per gallon on a year-over-year basis which was also influenced by volume de-leverage in our plants.
The year-over-year softness at the gross profit line was more than offset by strong cost performance in distribution and SG&amp;A.
Class I milk prices have been relatively flat through the first 2 months of the second quarter declining $0.14 in April and then rising just $0.10 in May.
Recent movements in the markets for storable dairy commodities lead us to expect about a 6% sequential increase in the June price.
However we continue to view the fundamentals in the U.S.
market as relatively balanced with solid supply growth ample inventories and continued tepid demand.
Barring any unusual weather patterns like we experienced last year we expect Class I prices to drift higher over the back half of the year but to remain within manageable levels.
Consistent with our core business strategy we continue to focus on efficiency and cost reduction in Q1.
We significantly reduced distribution and SG&amp;A costs helping us to deliver solid bottom line results.
As a result of our strong focus on rightsizing our SG&amp;A cost infrastructure over recent periods SG&amp;A costs for our Ongoing Dean Foods operations declined $23 million in the first quarter from the year-ago period.
Excluding advertising and incentive compensation SG&amp;A was $16 million below year-ago levels.
Our renewed focus on distribution costs resulted in a $17 million decline in distribution expenses from Q1 of last year for our Ongoing Dean Foods operations.
We are making solid progress in our distribution efficiency efforts.
And over the next 18 months we expect to eliminate a significant number of routes from our network driving higher distribution asset utilization and route economics and resulting in a more variabilized cost structure within our distribution system.
Our accelerated cost-reduction efforts also included the planned closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network.
In addition to the 3 plants announced late last year that are still in the closure process we have recently announced the closure of 2 additional plants.
We have closed our Shreveport Louisiana facility and have recently notified employees of the upcoming closure of our Buena Park California fluid milk plant.
We have strong momentum and expect to announce additional plant closures over the balance of the year and into 2014.
Paramount to our planning as we approach these initiatives is maintaining continued excellence in quality safety and service.
These are values that we refuse to compromise on and values that ensure our ability to provide a completely seamless transition from 1 plant to another for our customers.
Within our ongoing plant network our commitment to quality is relentless.
This focus has led to a healthy competition among our manufacturing plants which compete across several metrics to be the highest quality facility in the Dean Foods network.
I'd like to take a moment to recognize and congratulate our Purity Dairy in Nashville and that is our fluid milk plant; and our Toledo ice cream plant for winning the 2012 Dean Foods CEO Quality Award as the 2 plants that best exemplified our quality culture in 2012.
Your hard work is noticed and very much appreciated.
As a result of our strong cost performance adjusted operating income per gallon for Ongoing Dean Foods segment including the former FDD and corporate segments increased 18% from year-ago levels to reach $0.102 per gallon the highest per gallon result in more than a year.
This drove a total adjusted operating income increase of 12% in the quarter over the prior-year quarter.
This year is off to a solid start and we expect to continue to deliver against our objectives as the year progresses.
With that I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q1 results for the Ongoing Dean Foods segment as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance in the quarter.
As a reminder the numbers I'll discuss are only for our Ongoing Dean Foods segment and thus exclude the impact of WhiteWave ownership interest and Morningstar.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L.
As Gregg noted volumes declined in the quarter to 727 million gallons in part due to modest softening in our categories and also impacted by the absence of leap year and the quality of days in the quarter this year versus the last.
This drove a bit of volume de-leverage in our plants resulting in a year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of about 6%.
However a $17 million reduction in distribution costs and a $23 million reduction in SG&amp;A costs drove solid adjusted operating income growth of 12% to $74 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter for Ongoing Dean Foods was $116 million.
On an adjusted basis interest expense came in at $26 million for the quarter.
This in combination with our tax rate of 37.5% yielded adjusted diluted EPS of $0.16 for the quarter just above the higher end of our ingoing expectations.
As of the end of the first quarter total net debt outstanding excluding WhiteWave's stand-alone debt stood at approximately $1 billion.
Dean Foods' leverage ratio on March 31 as defined by our credit agreement was 2.13x a significant decline from 3.54x at the end of the fourth quarter of 2012.
The sharp decline is predominantly the result of the debt reduction driven by the proceeds received from the Morningstar sale.
Our leverage is likely to move a bit higher over the balance of the year due to the upcoming tax payments associated with the Morningstar transaction.
As a reminder we will pay 50% or approximately $215 million of the Morningstar tax bill in Q2 25% in Q3 and the remaining 25% in Q4 of this year.
Our goal remains to achieve and maintain a leverage ratio below 2.5x net funded debt to EBITDA.
Once we have reached our target we will evaluate best uses for free cash flow going forward.
Net cash flow used in continuing operations for Ongoing Dean Foods was $89 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $16 million resulting in a negative free cash flow from continuing operations for Ongoing Dean Foods of $105 million.
Our negative free cash flow was driven by a couple of significant one-time items.
A large net use of working capital in the quarter was due to the move of Morningstar from intercompany to external accounts receivable and swap termination fees associated with interest rate swaps extinguished in connection with the debt retired from the Morningstar sale.
Also impacting cash flow in the quarter were higher incentive compensation payouts related to our strong 2012 performance as well as inventory builds related to ice cream and butter production.
Net of our large income tax payables and litigation payment we expect to generate positive normalized cash flow throughout the remainder of 2013.
Total cash flow was supplemented by the receipt of approximately $1.45 billion of proceeds from the MorningStar sale offset by the payoff of $1.3 billion of Dean Foods debt.
Finally as Gregg mentioned earlier in connection with the spin-off of WhiteWave we will retain an approximate 19.9% interest or a 34.4 million shares stake in WhiteWave which based on yesterday's closing price is worth more than $550 million.
This will provide Dean significant financial flexibility going forward as we expect to monetize this ownership interest on a tax-free basis within the next 18 months.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Gregg Tanner for comments on our corporate strategy going forward as well as a review of our forward outlook.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Our focus remains very clear.
We are working to extend our competitive advantages in the core areas that drive our business: Volume cost and pricing.
In the near term we are especially focused on cost reduction.
We are accelerating our cost-reduction efforts including the closure of 10% to 15% of the plants in our network.
We are also eliminating a significant amount of distribution routes and continuing to rightsize our SG&amp;A.
Progress so far is consistent with our expectations and we anticipate meeting our objectives.
As a result of the loss of some business with a significant customer that we previously disclosed our private label white milk volumes are expected to underperform the industry this year.
However we believe that as we move past this volume loss we will return to our long-term trend of gaining share due to the strength of our network our advantaged cost structure our strong brands a significantly strengthened balance sheet and a focus on service quality and customer relationships.
Additionally we will continue to improve our pricing protocols to ensure that we pass through commodity inflation and reduce commodity-driven volatility in our results.
Turning to the forward outlook as we complete the spin-off of WhiteWave we will continue to focus on driving value in our core business and expect to deliver a solid 2013 growth.
With softer-than-anticipated industry volumes to start the year we now expect our volumes to decline low- to mid-single digits this year.
The dairy commodity environment looks to be a neutral factor in our forecast.
Diesel resin and sugar are expected to be modest tailwinds.
We are confident the momentum behind our cost-reduction activities will deliver solid bottom line results.
Overall for the year we continue to expect to substantially offset the financial impact of the lower volumes through accelerated cost reduction and productivity initiatives resulting in a low- to mid-single digit increase in Ongoing Dean Foods operating income from the pro forma 2012 results.
With the dramatic debt reduction of the last year we expect the interest expense to be approximately $108 million to $112 million in 2013.
We expect our full year tax rate to be around 38%.
As a result for the full year we continue to expect diluted EPS of between $0.45 and $0.55 excluding WhiteWave.
On the same basis for Q2 we expect adjusted diluted earnings of $0.11 to $0.15 per share.
In summary Q1 was a good start to the year.
We're delivering on our initiatives.
With our solid momentum heading into Q2 we expect to deliver strong Q2 and full year results.
I want to again thank our employees for their hard work in delivering the first quarter and the groundwork they are putting in place to produce solid full year results.
To our investors I want to thank you for your continued interest and support of Dean Foods.
And with that I will ask the operator to open the call up to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to the side of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chris just wondering if you could speak a little bit to the 9 3/4% 2018 senior note in terms of bringing those in early with some of the lower cost bank debt here given the environment? You bet John.
Obviously a very active conversation for us here.
As I think you're probably aware the takeout premium for those right now is a fairly substantial number.
So we're sort of doing the assessment right now of -- the balancing act of when that takeout premium comes down relative to the -- our first opportunity to call those at the end of next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then in terms of the other larger inventories of butter and ice cream was that just typical seasonality or was there anything opportunistic in terms of build getting ahead of the cost inflation later this year? It's a little bit of both.
Some of it was driven by commodity input costs.
Some of it was driven by some of the best scheduling for both the ice cream plants and our butter churn.
And we'll go next to the side of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask you a question -- actually 2 if I could.
The first one would just be as you think about the earnings -- the gap you have in your earnings range for say the second quarter or even just a little [ph] wider gap for the year I just want to understand -- obviously there's a lot of variability in those numbers and what can go into that.
But would you attribute the variability mostly to volumes and maybe just to try to be conservative with your volume outlook for the year? Is that -- would be that the biggest factor in that EPS range? Chris I would tell you that I'm not sure.
I mean volume obviously is one of the concerns coming out of the first quarter.
But I think it's just that there are so many moving parts right now as we start to exit some of the business with a customer who we lost the RFP to.
But I just -- I think this second quarter we're just trying to be as prudent as we can with our forecast because of the second quarter and third quarter volume that will be moving out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I had a second question just in relation to pricing and pricing protocols and the success that you've had in being a little bit more diligent around the milk price change every month and getting that through and really managing your mix.
There's a lot of factors that go into that I realize.
So just curious if you could speak to that and if you're -- the kind of progress you're seeing there and how that's aiding profitability? We saw it in Q4.
I guess we saw it to a degree this quarter as well.
Yes.
So I think we continue to make good progress on that.
We actually reviewed some of the new tools the team is working with last week some of the new things they put together to work with our field sales teams as they set price every month.
The first quarter was maybe a little bit of an interesting quarter to test those because with milk moving down sequentially -- as you saw in the numbers our gross profit per gallon did increase sequentially.
So those tools will probably come to be tested more fully in quarters and months where we're seeing sequential movement up in the milk price.
But right now we feel pretty good about the tools being developed how they're being rolled out and how they're being adopted.
We'll go next to Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First just -- now that you've finalized the spin-off of WhiteWave I was just curious when you think you would get more clarity on your capital allocation plans? Just given that if I look at your leverage even if you adjust for the gain that you have to pay on Morningstar it seems like you're pretty much close to your target level? Yes.
Judy I would tell you that -- I mean our continued focus is to continue to drive down our debt and we need to get it below the 2.5 target that we've set for ourselves and we need to keep it below that for an extended period.
So my take would be that -- as we get to that point and maintain that that we will come back with what we believe are the alternatives or the best use of that cash -- that excess cash that we'll have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Chris just clarifying the premium that you would be required to pay on retiring the 9 3/4% debt can you use your gain on Morningstar sales against that premium that you have to pay so your cash payments on the gain is actually less? That's correct.
It would be -- there is the offset there.
But even with that right now the decision that we're looking at it still isn't completely obvious that would be the best use of cash right now.
And we'll go next to Alexia Howard with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So we've had several examples of other people in the industry rationalizing capacity.
I'm -- and you've obviously closed plants as well.
Could you give us any rough estimates of what proportion of the total industry capacity has come out over the last year to 18 months? And in particular are you able to give any commentary on what happened specifically with the Waukegan plant and where the volume went? And as other plants close in the industry do you expect the competition of volume as that plays out? Thank you.
As far as other industry capacity I can't really speak to what has come in or out as I don't -- I can speak to what we've done.
And as I talked to earlier we're going to take 10% to 15% of our facilities out.
That should translate in very similar types of capacity.
It may be a little bit less but it should be relatively close to the percentage of facilities that we take.
So I think that -- from my perspective as far as your question on Waukesha Waukegan I don't -- I know that we picked up some of that business coming out of that facility.
And where the rest of it went I can't really speak to because I'm not sure.
We'll go next to Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gregg just want to revisit the comments you made around the second half outlook for raw milk costs.
When you say you expect price to drift higher during the second half are you benchmarking that against the second quarter average or off a higher June Class I price? And then just the range of forecast that you'd consider can you give us an update on what you'd consider a realistic range for Class I prices for the full year and can you give us a sense of at what point if things do drift higher you'd start to see a little bit of risks to the operating profit growth outlook? Okay.
But there's a lot of there so let me start with sequentially our prices would go up in June -- starting with June.
So as we said there we think there's about a 6% or somewhere around $1 a hundredweight increase in June.
And then as that moves forward on average second half of the year between $18 and $19 a hundredweight would be kind of what we would think of as a range.
Right now Matthew USDA is forecasting a 0.70% increase in total production this year versus last.
So as we -- and obviously that's also somewhat dependent upon the corn crop.
But as it looks right now the factors impacting the back-end of the year there's nothing -- nothing looks particularly ominous after we get through that modest pickup in June.
And I think you'll see a little bit of the reaction early on in the -- over the last quarter to what was going on in New Zealand with the drought in New Zealand.
They've now received rain so that's kind of gone away.
And now their focus has kind of moved to the lower production rates in the EU.
So I just -- you don't see it I don't see it in the U.S.
market.
I think we're going to be relatively stable through the back half of the year slightly increasing.
Per cow output within the U.S.
has remained very strong so some of the fundamentals look pretty good.
We'll go next to Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Now Gregg you've laid out a pretty persuasive case of reducing capacity and really bringing down your operating structure.
Now in addition to that as we look at some of the external players that have a bearing on margins your retailers your competitors what can you -- could you give us some comfort in terms of where do you see that? Is it moving towards the rational environment or it's as usual? It feels as usual.
We're not seeing anything out there retailer-wise or even consumer-wise that is dramatically changing the landscape.
So I don't -- I can't speak to anything specifically that I'm seeing that would tell us there's -- that their capacity rationalization and us being more cost-effective is not going to work and work effectively.
Got it.
And then as a follow-up TruMoo as you laid out is very successful right? And clearly there are differences between the chocolate milk and the white milk market.
But are there any lessons in terms of what can you do to your brand development in the white milk sort of business or is that completely different? Well I think there's multiple things.
I think it is a little bit different but I think there are some of the learnings when you can scale up a national brand and you get the economies of scale.
Whether it be from an advertising or just distribution perspective there's definitely some synergies there to be gained.
And I think that's probably the biggest thing coming out of TruMoo that we've been able to accomplish is being able to take advantage of that from a national perspective.
And I would think the same would play true whether -- on white milk as well.
You also see the strength of our DSD network coming into play there as well.
DSD for us I think is a  nice opportunity [ph] to grow the TruMoo business and we still have opportunities yet to go.
We'll go next to Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
This is Clay [indiscernible] standing in for Rob.
A couple of questions.
So I know that you mentioned in your prepared remarks regarding the Ongoing Dean free cash flow of a negative $105 million.
Wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on the moving parts there specifically kind of the amounts related to the accounts receivable shift and the hiring incentive compensation and the swap repayment? Hey Chris do you want to take that? So the swap repayment was $28 million.
The accounts receivable is kind of in that $25 million to $30 million range.
Similar for the inventory build probably a little less and then -- and incentive compensation was also kind of in that range perhaps even a little higher than that range.
So 4 items and all 4 of them contributed to about -- roughly in line with the same amount to the $105 million negative cash flow for the quarter.
Okay.
And is that $28 million on swap is that included in the $1.3 billion of debt repayment or is it separate? Separate.
Separate okay.
And then you had kind of mentioned that free cash flow going forward you expect it to be positive.
Are you prepared to kind of give anything more specific there or you just want to leave it at that? No I think at this point we'll leave it where we did and then we'll provide more color as we go throughout the year.
And we'll go next to Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question actually on the outlook for 2014.
Given that the -- I guess the TSA agreement you have with WhiteWave is going end or roll off at the end of this year and you'll get the full year benefit of the run rate of the cost savings from this year possibly assuming that you'll have some additional cost savings.
You can easily get to a double-digit profit growth as opposed to your long-term target of a mid-single digit profit growth.
I guess is there any headwinds that you've seen actually that may offset some of those tailwinds? I think that -- I wish I could predict that.
But what I would tell you is as we move into -- as we look at 2014 we will have some significant tailwinds but we'll also be overlapping the loss of some significant volume.
So as we've lost the volume we're not able to take the capacity out at the same rate.
So we get a little bit behind that curve.
But as that starts to pick up I think you will see the -- you'll see it play out very similar to as you are defining it.
We'll go next to Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions I guess.
First is the savings that you're talking about are obviously this year very meaningful relative to your gross profit and your just total cost.
When I look at our model versus what you generated there was much more SG&amp;A savings versus let's say cost of goods.
And so I'm just trying to kind of get a gauge how that $120 million -- with some of it I guess stranded overhead which would be G&amp;A how that kind of flows through for the year like how we should kind of think about that? And then on the financing side of things am I kind of reading it correctly that you're basically deferring decision on returning cash to shareholders to really towards maybe the end of this year when you figured out the capital what to do with the long -- the bonds and the tax payments? All right.
Well I'll let Chris try to break down the cost structure for you.
I can tell you on the use of capital we're going to continue to look at all our alternatives but we're not going to do that and talk to it until we're below our 2.5x debt to EBITDA and maintaining that.
So that's why we continue to defer that point because we're not there and I don't want to distract the organization away from that until we're there and staying there.
So that will answer the capital question.
Do you want to take the cost? Yes on the cost structure Eric I think as you saw and as we discussed in the first quarter it was clearly more heavily dependent upon both distribution and SG&amp;A for the productivity that we drove in Q1.
I think as you go throughout the balance of 2013 you'll see that begin to take more traction in our -- in the plant costs and in raw materials.
So the plant cost effect obviously is -- as some of the plants that we have closed here in the first quarter the 2 that we discussed today on the call as those get traction then you'll see conversion cost savings -- plant cost savings begin to increase.
So I think in the back half of the year it does become more balanced and then similarly into 2014 as you get the positive effect of a full year of closure of facility the next year and the routes that Gregg mentioned that we'll be taking off the street throughout this year.
You see the savings fall into the plant costs and distribution costs probably more heavily than you'll see them continue with SG&amp;A.
We'll go next to Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> On your 10% to 15% plant rationalization any time horizon as to when you're targeting that? Yes it's over the 18 months.
Research Division</strong> Over the next 18 months? Yes.
So it will be 2013 2014.
Research Division</strong> And for each plant I understand that different plants have different sizes.
Historically you would save about $3 million to $4 million of overhead.
Is that number still relevant for you? Yes it's close.
I mean it -- you're right it varies depending on size.
But in general that's probably pretty close.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you're taking out 10% to 15% of your plants how close will you be to -- at the end of 18 months to your target of being up from 50% to 75% of capacity? There's a lot of variables that go into that obviously because we're continuing to push -- from a continuous improvement standpoint we continue to push efficiencies and OEEs in our facilities to much higher levels which continues to create capacity as well.
So it's just a continued focus on the productivity side of this.
I would assume that we will continue -- as we continue to become more and more productive and remove more and more waste that we will continue to have to take assets out to maintain that 75%.
We'll go next to Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So my questions are on free cash flow.
Previously you had said normalized free cash was $75 million to $100 million in '13.
Are you now sort of backing off of that? That's the first question.
And when will free cash flow normalize? And then lastly on CapEx within that free cash flow number what is your estimate for restructuring charges? Okay.
Let me tell you -- yes we intend to -- we're not backing away from the $75 million to $100 million in free cash flow for this year.
So we -- it's fully intend to deliver on that.
As far as the Ongoing our capital -- we would anticipate that our capital will stay high in 2014 closer to that $175 million range versus where we've been running.
But then I think as you look to 2015 our capital will get back in line with close to the $125 million that we've historically looked at.
Now as far -- the last part of your question again? Akshay? What was the last part of your question? [Technical Difficulty] I'm sorry Akshay.
We missed the -- you kind of have 3-parter there I think.
Research Division</strong> So yes I was just saying when will free cash flow normalize? Because the reported number this year in 2013 it would be great if you tell us what the reported number would be that's associated with the $75 million to $100 million.
And then when should we just expect reported to equal normalize? So we think in 2014 as the CapEx starts to adjust down if 2013 is elevated 2014 will be as well.
So you started looking at 2015 as being where we would describe it as more of a run rate.
And I think that your -- the third part of your question was kind of the overall cash cost of restructuring.
And on a per plant basis the cash cost of restructuring absent the CapEx that we spent to close a plant down is relatively modest.
It's -- we don't have significant cash costs that get consumed in each individual plant closure.
And we'll go next to Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I wanted to do a gut check.
It looks like EBITDA for the Ongoing business on an LTM basis is in like the $430 million range.
Is that correct? Yes $430 million to $450 million I think is what we've talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it looks like if you exclude the WhiteWave debt that you're already pretty close to your target of the leveraged total debt to EBITDA of 2.5x.
Is that correct? I mean actually it looks like pro forma is like 2.4x? That is correct.
But the real question is that we still have the taxes on the Morningstar sale to pay.
So if you look at that and you translate that through 2013 at the end of '13 we'd be a little over 3x.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Amit Sharma with a follow-up from BMO Capital Markets.
Chris I really appreciate giving out the volume number for the quarter.
Can you give us the quarterly volume breakdown for 2012? We can.
We'll need to follow up with you and everyone else Amit we don't have it here with us today.
But we were thinking about just kind of rolling that out quarter by quarter from this point forward but we can certainly give the 4 quarters of history for 2012.
I hope that helps with you guys...
Absolutely.
And we will go back to the side of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc for a follow-up.
Research Division</strong> Again I want to focus on free cash flow.
So just to be clear in 2013 the difference in reported and normalized is more than just the CapEx coming down right? There's a bunch of other stuff going on.
So if you could just help us bridge the gap like what's the reported number expected to be in '13 compared to the normalized? And really the question for '14 is other than the CapEx coming down is there any other one-time issues that we need to be worried about or focused on that might impact reported free cash? So in '14 we still have 3 more years '14 '15 and '16 of the litigation payment.
So that will be in the number next year and for 2 more years after that.
But sort of back to this year the -- so similarly the litigation payment is of -- one of the other big things that as we sort of adjust or normalize to give you guidance in the $75 million to $100 million range you have to take that into account plus the ones that we have described here in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the CapEx just to be clear again you're saying the restructuring cash costs related to plant closures et cetera are generally included in your longer-term guidance right? Yes.
So 2 different things.
So CapEx -- separately we've guided to $150 million to $175 million this year for CapEx.
And we're -- we only have been giving guidance for next year as we've described kind of an 18-month -- Gregg just talked about an 18-month glide path for our accelerated plant closures.
Think of next year's CapEx as probably being elevated versus our long-term run rate as well.
So that's CapEx.
And then separately cash costs of restructuring it is embedded in our numbers.
And I would tell you on a per plant basis it doesn't end up being an overly large number.
And our last question comes from the side of John Malcolm with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just had -- as it relates to your remaining shares of WhiteWave when you state debt for equity exchange is that simply just selling your remaining shares into the open market bringing proceeds back into either tender or call any bonds or are you looking at some other transaction? It's probably a little more complicated than just selling.
So we -- the mechanics of it are a little complicated.
But essentially we have a relationship with the bank where we will take debt out from them.
And then we'll -- they'll sell the shares and take the proceeds from that to pay off that -- the debt that we've taken.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> It does.
And there are no additional questions.
Are there any closing remarks? There are thank you.
And I want to thank you again for joining all of us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and we'll talk to you all in August.
Thanks.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Glen and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our second quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the Morningstar divestiture and those related to our former subsidiary The WhiteWave Foods Company.
In addition pro forma adjustments have been made to our 2012 results to reflect transactions between our former segments under our current commercial agreements that went into effect upon completion of the WhiteWave IPO in October 2012 rather than under the intercompany agreements that were in effect throughout the majority of 2012.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings leverage ratios network optimization plans and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements might made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with an update on the recent disposition of our remaining WhiteWave shares and a review of Dean Foods second quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thanks Barry and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
As I'm sure you've seen from the press release overall results for the second quarter came in as forecasted.
But before getting into the results I'd like to provide an update on the final step in our efforts to unlock shareholder value through the recent disposition of our remaining interest in WhiteWave foods.
As previously discussed we spun off 67% of WhiteWave Foods outstanding common stock in May of this year.
Upon completion of that transaction we retained 34.4 million shares of Class A common stock of WhiteWave.
At the end of July we completed our disposition of our residual stake in WhiteWave in a tax-free debt-for-equity exchange resulting in $589 million of net proceeds for Dean Foods.
All of the proceeds will be available for general corporate purposes including reducing Dean Foods' net debt position and offsetting the tax payments associated with the Morningstar transaction.
The successful execution of this transaction represents the completion of the separation of WhiteWave from Dean Foods.
We are very pleased to have completed the strategic realignment of Dean Foods which is unlocked latent value in this business.
This value unlock helped deliver almost $2 billion or an 84% increase in shareholder value over the past year since we announced the WhiteWave IPO in August of 2012.
I'm also pleased that we have been able to significantly focus our business and strengthen our balance sheet in the process providing us significant financial flexibility going forward.
But turning to the second quarter.
As I said the results were in line with our forecast and guidance despite a challenging environment.
We are making progress in our efforts to reduce costs and drive efficiencies.
These efforts offset much of the volume deleveraging associated with the transition of the private label fluid milk volumes we lost in the recent RFP with a large customer that we have discussed on previous earnings calls.
We produced operating income of $65 million compared to $72 million in Q2 of 2012 on a pro forma and comparable basis.
This drove net income of $24 million and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.13 per share as compared to our guidance of $0.11 to $0.15 per share.
Our net debt position increased during the quarter as we paid the first installment of the tax bill related to the sale of the Morningstar business.
This will be more than offset in the third quarter with the proceeds from the successful disposition of the WhiteWave shares in July.
The transition of volumes to other providers related to the partial business loss with our large customer combined with general category weakness resulted in total volumes including fluid milk ice cream cultured and other products of 703 million gallons for the quarter.
This represents a 6% decline from 748 million gallons in Q2 of 2012 on a pro forma and comparative basis.
As we exit Q2 the transition of the vast majority of volume is complete.
Within the fluid milk specifically industry category volumes declined approximately 2.1% on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods.
On this same unadjusted basis our fluid milk volume declined 6%.
To put the decline into perspective it's important to note that roughly 2/3 of the decline in our fluid milk and total volume this quarter is attributable to previously disclosed business losses related to the customer RFP and a customer's decision to vertically integrate late last year.
The balance of the decline is related to the general category softness in fluid milk and other categories.
Excluding these onetime losses we believe our underlying performance continue to outpace the category.
Overall weakness in large-format retail is offsetting solid growth in food service and small format channels.
As a result our share of the overall U.S.
fluid milk sales volume declined approximately 140 basis points from Q1 to 36.4% while our share on the branded milk category increased slightly.
We continue to focus on strengthening our volumes at margin-appropriate pricing levels and recent wins will begin positively impacting our volumes in the fourth quarter.
However we continue to expect our volumes to underperform the broader industry through the balance of the year due to the ongoing impact of the lost business.
On a year-to-date basis our total milk volumes have declined 5%.
Considering category trends in the second quarter and the impact of the lost volume over the rest of the year we now expect our full year fluid milk volumes to decline in the mid-single digits.
Our national flavored milk brand TruMoo continued to outperform its category at retail.
Even as we lap the strong 10% growth from the second quarter of 2012 TruMoo retail volume sales increased 1.4% in this year's second quarter compared to flat overall category growth.
Retailers continue to price private label milk at levels consistent with historical norms with the margin over milk or the spread between the Class I Mover and the retail price of private label gallons at approximately $1.57 per gallon compared to $1.58 per gallon in the previous quarter and $1.74 per gallon in Q2 of 2012.
Average price gaps between our brands and private label in Q2 declined slightly from Q1 and were in line with year ago levels.
For the quarter Class I raw milk prices declined a bit in April before rising in both May and June resulting in a modest decrease in the quarterly average from Q1 levels.
The increase in the month of June was particularly pronounced with the Class I price rising more than $1 per hundredweight from May to June.
On average the Class I price in the quarter was 1% lower than the previous quarter and 16% above year ago levels.
We continue to view the fundamentals for raw milk in the U.S.
market as relatively balanced at these levels for the remainder of the year.
We believe solid supply growth ample inventories and continued modest domestic demand is somewhat offset by the increased global demand for milk powder.
Given this we expect Class I prices to remain relatively in line with current levels.
Consistent with our core business strategy we continued to focus on efficiency and cost reduction.
Our accelerated cost reduction efforts include the planned closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network or 8 to 12 plants through mid-2014.
As part of this initiative we have closed or have announced the upcoming closure of 8 facilities since we began ramping up activities late last year.
This includes yesterday's announcement of the closure of one of our Denver facilities.
We only began realizing a small amount of the savings from these closures in the first half of the year.
We have strong momentum behind these initiatives and expect increased savings over the balance of the year and into 2014.
In Q2 we also significantly reduced our distribution and SG&amp;A costs helping to offset the majority of the volume deleverage and to deliver the bottom line results.
This focus helped reduce SG&amp;A cost by $43 million in the second quarter from the year ago period.
Excluding advertising and incentive compensation SG&amp;A was $17 million below year ago levels.
We built on these cost savings with an $11 million decline in our distribution expense from Q2 of last year.
The rapid transition of volume as a result of the RFP created a significant volume headwind in Q2 particularly in the latter part of the quarter resulting in a 10% year-over-year decrease in operating income.
However we were encouraged by the fact that operating income per gallon decreased at a much slower rate indicating that our cost takeout initiatives have gained traction.
Operating income totaled $65 million for the quarter which is a decline of $7 million compared to the prior year quarter.
Overall Q2 results were consistent with our expectations despite a challenging environment that included additional category volume softness in large-format retail.
Our cost and efficiency initiatives are progressing.
And as we look ahead to 2014 and beyond we expect to offset volume deleverage through continued reduction of fixed costs.
With that I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thanks Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q2 results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance in the quarter.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L.
As Gregg noted volumes declined 6% in the quarter.
Although we are making progress in our cost-reduction initiatives including the closure of 8 to 12 plants the transition of these volumes out of our network resulted in fixed asset deleverage within the quarter particularly toward the end of the quarter when we experienced the bulk of the volume transition.
This drove a year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of $61 million or 11%.
An $11 million reduction in distribution costs and a $43 million decline in SG&amp;A costs resulted in an operating income decline of $7 million or 10% to $65 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was $105 million.
On an adjusted basis interest expense came in at $26 million for the quarter.
This in combination with our adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded adjusted diluted EPS of $0.13 for the quarter.
As of the end of the second quarter total net debt outstanding stood at approximately $1.2 billion.
Dean Foods' leverage ratio on June 30 as defined by our former credit agreement was 2.69x a significant decline from the 3.54x at the end of the fourth quarter of 2012.
The sharp decline is predominantly a result of the debt reduction driven by the proceeds received from the Morningstar sale offset by the June payment of $213 million or roughly 50% of the tax build associated with the gain on that sale.
We expect to make the large majority of the remaining associated tax payments in the third and fourth quarters of this year.
Despite these additional payments our leverage will decline substantially in the third quarter due to the successful July tax remonetization of our remaining stake in WhiteWave Foods resulting in a $589 million in proceeds and leaving us at pro forma leverage as defined by our new credit agreement of approximately 2.07x net debt-to-EBITDA as of June 30.
The tax remonetization of our residual WhiteWave stake increases our balance sheet strength going forward.
Our objective remains to maintain a leverage ratio below 2.5x net funded debt-to-EBITDA as defined by our new credit agreement.
With the disposition of our remaining WhiteWave stake we are now below that level on a pro forma basis.
While dramatically reducing our debt load through the first half of this year we have continued to improve our capital structure in other ways as well.
In March and July we reset and extended the maturities of our AR facility and revolving credit facility to 2015 and 2018 respectively.
Year-to-date net cash used in continuing operations was $245 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $49 million resulting in free cash flow used in continuing operations of $294 million.
Negative free cash flow was primarily driven by the $213 million tax payment associated with the Morningstar sale.
The $30 million impact of moving Morningstar to external accounts receivable the $28 million interest rate swap termination fee associated with our Morningstar sale-driven debt reduction approximately $24 million of deal costs and our $19 million litigation payment as well as other onetime items primarily associated with the separation of Morningstar and WhiteWave from the business.
Excluding our remaining income tax payables we expect to generate positive adjusted free cash flow throughout the remainder of 2013.
On an adjusted basis which excludes the Morningstar tax payments as well as other onetime uses of cash associated with our strategic activities this year and litigation payments we continue to expect to deliver $75 million to $100 million of free cash flow in 2013.
We believe we will be able to substantially accelerate our free cash flow generation from this level over the coming years.
First we expect to average mid-single-digit EBIT growth as we continue to extend our competitive advantages and return to our history of share growth in fluid milk.
Second we have the opportunity to refinance some of our higher coupon debt.
At today's indicative rates refinancing a portion of our bonds would result in a substantial reduction in our annual cash interest expense.
We will continue to evaluate our options given the significant make-whole premiums associated with an early refinancing of our existing bonds.
And third as we move past our current phase of accelerated plant closures we anticipate a decline in our CapEx needs over time.
This year we expect to spend approximately $150 million to $175 million of CapEx.
2014 spend will likely be elevated as well compared to what we view as our base run rate of approximately $125 million to $150 million.
As we move past this phase of accelerated cost reduction we expect CapEx to trend towards this base level.
Combined we expect these opportunities to significantly increase our free cash flow in the years to come.
With our leverage now below our targeted level we plan to maintain status quo as it relates to free cash flow allocation throughout the balance of this year.
We think this is prudent as we move through this period of volume deleveraging and accelerated cost reduction.
However as we look forward we are now in a position to begin evaluating other uses of our cash flow to maximize shareholder value beyond debt repayment.
We expect to communicate our plans for go-forward free cash flow allocation before the end of the year.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Gregg for comments on our corporate strategy as well as a review of our forward outlook.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Our focus remains clear: we continue to work to extend our competitive advantage beginning with costs and efficiency.
We have accelerated these efforts including our plans to close 10% to 15% of the plants in our network.
We expect these efforts to offset the volume deleverage we are experiencing and to further differentiate us from our competitive set from an efficiency and productivity perspective.
Our advantaged cost position is important as we work to return to our long history of share gains.
I expect these category share gains combined with our portfolio of strong brands a significantly strengthened balance sheet industry-leading pricing tools and our uncompromising commitment to quality safety and service to provide the platform for our success going forward.
Turning to the forward outlook we believe that the momentum behind our cost reduction activities will enable us to deliver solid full year results.
This is despite a challenging environment that includes fluid milk category volumes that appear to be a bit softer than we originally anticipated.
The dairy commodity environment looks to be a neutral factor in our forecast.
Overall for the year we continue to expect to substantially offset the financial impact of the lower volumes through accelerated cost reduction and productivity resulting in a low single-digit increase in operating income from the pro forma 2012 results.
With this in mind we are narrowing our full year guidance for adjusted diluted EPS to a range of between $0.47 and $0.53.
Lower than previously forecast interest expense due to continued debt reduction is expected to help offset a modest decrease in our EBIT and EBITDA assumptions.
We now expect full year EBITDA to be between $410 million and $430 million.
With the full quarter impact of the RFP-related volume reduction impacting all of Q3 continued soft trends and normal seasonality in the business we expect the third quarter to be the most challenging of the year.
We expect adjusted diluted earnings of $0.05 to $0.08 per share.
We expect Q4 to be stronger than the third quarter due to a normal seasonal strength new business wins entering the system and accumulating benefits of our accelerated cost reduction initiatives.
In summary as expected Q2 was challenging.
However the hard work of our team to drive cost productivity delivered overall results largely in line with our forecast.
We are delivering on our initiatives and with our decreased interest expense and cost reduction momentum heading into the second half of the year we anticipate delivering earnings consistent with our initial full year guidance.
I want to again thank our employees for their hard work and focus on delivering the second quarter and the groundwork they are putting in place to drive our future success.
Part of that groundwork has been an unwavering commitment to safety which has resulted in fewer accidents and lower costs for Dean Foods.
To our investors I want to thank you for your continued interest and support of Dean Foods.
And with that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is really related to the full year guidance and the phasing in the second half.
And clearly you've called out the third quarter being the most challenging and then improving in the fourth quarter.
And I'm just wondering if you can go through in more details the drivers of the sequential improvement whether it's volume sequentially getting less bad the cost savings and whether you're assuming additional benefits in the fourth quarter from either debt refi or share buyback or any other benefits that you're assuming in the fourth quarter? Okay.
I would tell you Judy it's not the latter.
So I would start at the beginning of our expectation.
We have -- we are bringing on some new business that will start in the fourth quarter that obviously will help.
We also expect the acceleration of our cost reductions to start to take effect and continue to compound itself as we do more coming out of the third and fourth quarters.
So we do expect our costs to get better in the fourth quarter.
We also expect our volume to get better in the fourth quarter.
And I think the other piece of that is basically the seasonality.
The fourth quarter is always stronger for us than the third quarter.
Third quarter is usually a fairly difficult quarter for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess my follow-up is just from a capital allocation perspective what is kind of holding you back from announcing any kind of a capital return strategy sooner rather than later? So clearly the leverage has come down now to below 2x.
What do you need to sort of evaluate more as you come out with the announcement? And is there concern over the fundamentals in terms of volume or industry softness that gives you a little bit of a pause and really evaluating what that EBITDA generation could look like? No I don't think it's any hesitation around the category or the business itself.
I think it's more around the strategy as we better define what our longer-term strategy is and understanding that we had said from the beginning that we wanted to get below 2.5x and maintain that for some period of time.
And one quarter doesn't necessarily mean that you're there and everything is good although we anticipate that we will stay well below the 2.5.
But the other piece of that would be I think trying to understand all the trade-offs and what do we need around investment going forward because once we make that commitment from a shareholder perspective we don't want to ever look back.
And your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask specifically how much the volume impact from this new business that's coming in Q4 will be? And then a broader question about the risk of further loss of contracts going forward how tough is it right now? And is there a lot of turn over and a lot of RFP activity going on out there? Yes I would tell you I'll start with the last question.
I think from an RFP perspective we're not seeing any incremental activity Alexia.
I think it's pretty much as we have seen.
It is extremely competitive and continues to be but has been for an extended time.
So we haven't seen any drop-off of that nor have we necessarily seen it continue to heat up anymore than normal.
As for the volume in the fourth quarter it's not going to -- we're not in any position yet to be specific about what it is because some of it will come in and some of it is still -- we're still anticipating that it will start in the fourth quarter.
So I'm not going to get into specifics around how much volume it is but it is -- it will be substantial when it's all said and done.
And your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Trying to understand second quarter trends a little bit.
Is it really just simply timing in terms of the softness you're seeing because of the categories was June particularly bad and you expect subsequent quarters to improve this? Could you talk about profit trends? Are you profitable in June because that's such a surprisingly low number to me for the quarter.
I think from a volume perspective June was soft but not overly surprising.
We had anticipated that the volume would start to come out from our loss of the RFP or a portion of that RFP so I don't think we were necessarily shocked by the volume in June.
As far as the profitability in June I think it was pretty much in line with what we had anticipated.
If you think about it in the context of where we had the volume coming out but our costs were not coming out at the same rate because a lot of that volume was coming out in the month of June.
So our profitability was kind of in line with what we had anticipated with what's coming out.
So Farha you said surprisingly low.
Were you referring to Q2 or Q3? Research Division</strong> More -- sorry Q3 -- kind of this summer period Q2 to Q3.
Just the volumes have been lower but they're in line with your expectations because it's really -- it did -- the industry volume kind of -- because the industry volumes have been a little bit surprising to me and I think your volumes came in just a little bit softer than we had anticipated as well.
So do you think it's just a factor more industry trends or is it just the exit out of Walmart? I think it's both.
I mean yes.
I don't think -- I mean as we've said in our prepared remarks I think there's a piece of that that is there's basis the Walmart volume that came out.
But I think there's also that the industry's soft.
I mean we were down 2.1% which is a little more than what we had anticipated.
And most of that again Farha is in the large-format areas.
So our large format is down quite a bit.
I mean our food service and small formats seem to be doing well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is the industry softness do you think is related to pricing that can improve if milk prices go down? Is there any particular reason for industry volume softness? I think there's lots of reasons why it is what it is.
I mean you start with just some of the overall demographics fewer children being born.
You can look at the natural demographics of the aging population and I think all of that.
You look at some of the categories that are down the ready-to-eat cereal category continues to decline fairly dramatically and that obviously has an impact on fluid milk consumption.
And then I think the other piece of that when you look at it from where we sit just the overall volume with our business in total than -- about in line for what 30 years now.
The industry has been dropping at about 1% to 1.5% so...
So also Farha while we think the category is soft we wouldn't characterize it as being sort of catastrophically soft.
2% 2.1% in Q2.
If you take the last 6 quarters and do just a simple average it comes out to be down 2% over the last 6 quarters.
So as Gregg said the 50 year average probably closer to 1.5% but those 50 basis points are certainly not a tailwind for the business but they're a headwind that we're doing our best to take in stride.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And my final question is there's been a lot of articles talking about lower grain prices factoring into lower commodity prices for you guys.
When do you anticipate enjoying that commodity benefit? Well I think it's hard -- I'd love to say when that will actually happen but it's hard to project.
I'm guessing that if the corn crop comes in as currently anticipated you'll see the corn prices continue to decline and our feed prices decline.
You look at the overall price of milk in general the rest of this year we expect it to be relatively benign.
It may go up a little bit at the end of the third quarter and in the fourth quarter but I wouldn't -- not significantly.
So it would probably be 2014 before you would start to see that.
I mean you look at milk production I mean it's a supply market right now.
Milk production in the first half of the year was up about 0.5%.
We're anticipating it'll be up about full 1% at the end of the year.
So production continues to be up.
Demand's a little bit tepid so I would expect you would see that moving into 2014.
USDA publishes their next update on the corn crop next week I think on Monday.
So obviously we'll be paying attention to that pretty closely and who knows depending on what they say will see some movement after that.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Chris can you I don't know how difficult it is to talk in specificity about this but can you give us a bit more clarity on the make-whole premium attached to the 9 3/4% note and how that phases over the course of the next 12 months or so? And if you were to try and retire those notes by year end what -- can you give us a sense of what type of premium you would be paying then? So if we acted soon it would be to the tune of about $70 million.
So that's the trade-off between sort of the net present value of taking it out today and being at a more depressed net present value but recognizing the more fully loaded upside of reduced interest expense versus the kind of those 2 bars flipping place over the next year as we get to the first call date seeing less interest savings but sort of a better return on investment.
That's the math that we're working on kind of that trade-off on right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would the math really change materially over the next 3 or 4 months? Over the next 3 or 4 so I would characterize it as modestly.
But beyond that it continues to -- those bars do continue to switch places and it gets more material as time goes on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to clarify can you give an update on the magnitude or the exact magnitude of the remaining tax payments due on Morningstar? It's a little over $200 million.
We expect in the neighborhood of $100 million slightly more than $100 million in each of Q3 and Q4.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question for you.
I wondered I just was curious about your -- if you look at your underlying volume performance x the lost volume from the RFP would you say your share is holding about steady with the market? I didn't see that in your results or can you talk about that in broader terms? Yes I would tell you that if you take the RFP volume and then you take the volume from the vertical that went or the retailer that went vertical back late last year then I would say our volume is basically -- it may even be a bit better than the category.
But it's on the category.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- go ahead sorry.
Does that help? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I was trying to understand just how the base business performance.
So would you expect them with some of the new product wins -- new account wins? It sounds like some of them will be coming in Q4.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is what's going to drive you to gaining share in the category? Is it just some of the new account wins later in the year or is there something you're doing better on the branded side that may allow you to gain share.
I'm just trying to understand that if that's for the rest of the year or kind of 2014? Yes I think it is both.
I think it's our cost advantages and some of the competitive advantages that we believe we have in the marketplace that's going to allow us to continue to gain share.
The other piece of that is we do have volume coming on.
And our expectation is that that will help us be in a position to gain share as we go the rest of this year and into 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up for Chris on the sort of the capital return if and when that could happen later this year.
And any potential larger debt reduction similar to what Matt just asked about.
Do those likely happen in unison therefore do you have to make some movement on the debt use the cash to get more comfortable with returning cash to shareholders? I'm trying to understand what may instigate either one of those to occur? No I don't think that there's any sort of intrinsic tying of those different activities.
I think kind as we said in our prepared remarks we think it's prudent to work through -- so first we've had a lot of balls in the air as you all know with the spin-off and then with the monetization the retaining shares.
So a number of activities has been going on that we wanted to make sure those were done flawlessly.
Now we turn our attention to the next set of activities and yes I think you're right on point.
Capital allocation becomes that next key activity that that that same team of people who led the effort around the spin and the Morningstar sale and the monetization will turn their efforts to.
And so I think we work through that and then we have this period of a little bit of turbulence in Q2 and Q3 as the Walmart volume transitions out.
So we thought during that period of time we could be over our skis if we went too far.
So it's really more just a prudent sequencing of working through the onetime strategic efforts working through the short transitional turbulence in our underlying business and then at the end of the year moving to as Gregg said capital allocation policies that we feel 100% confident with because once we got those in place that's now a commitment that you live to going forward.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I don't recall hearing about the vertical integration of a retailer before -- I think most of the commentary was just about the loss of the RFP.
So I mean most of the retailers have been moving away from owning the production assets other than I guess Kroger or maybe ATB [ph].
So what -- can you kind of talk a little bit about that? Is that something that you fear in the market or is this just kind of a one-off that we're just kind of now hearing about? Yes Eric we put out a press release back in February that talked about -- it occurred in the upper Midwest in the Michigan area.
So we thought we had talked about it.
If you didn't pick that up I apologize.
But I don't think it's a trend.
I mean in fact we're seeing the trend actually go the other direction.
The majority of retailers have -- more of the retailers have come to us.
If you look at some of our acquisitions over the last few years those were verticals who we had purchased.
So I don't necessarily see this being a trend going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to the this Slide 16 and the use of the free cash flow over time.
The productivity investments are obvious return of capital.
Maybe you could say whether dividends versus share repurchases based on your initial view what is the priority? But in terms of growth investments I mean is there -- I mean I realize you have a lot of balls in the air but is there like any M&amp;A under consideration that investors should think about in let's say other cultured products or is there -- or would you even be allowed to at this point from an antitrust perspective to pursue anything in terms of M&amp;A that would I guess ultimately lead to maybe less return of cash to shareholders than maybe the market is expecting? Yes there was a lot in there Eric.
What I would tell you is we are in the midst of evaluating and I think you started off with what is the best -- what we believe is the best return -- the best way to return to the shareholder and whether that's a buyback or whether that's a dividend.
And we're going through all of that now.
As we said earlier we continue to -- the same team and we've cut our SG&amp;A back considerably so a lot of the people are still doing the same -- are doing a lot of the work here have been very busy with the other side.
So I think from that aspect we can't answer that today as to whether we prefer one over the other.
From an M&amp;A perspective we're always going to be interested if there's something out that's going to add value.
But that is not -- as part of our algorithm to be successful we don't have to go do M&amp;A to make it work.
So that's always going to be more opportunistic than anything else.
What was the -- there was one other piece that you were asking about in there? Research Division</strong> No I don't think so.
No.
Just one quick last comment for you.
The third quarter because WhiteWave used to be part of the numbers I mean the seasonality impact in the third quarter is a function of the school milk right and the absence of that.
And so the fixed cost absorption this quarter is particularly challenging because you don't have the extra school volume.
Is that the way to think about it? That and you really don't have -- because the fourth quarter you start getting into holidays where there's a lot of dairy products that play into the holidays.
So your mix get better.
And your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg I have a 2-part question here.
First of all you've been talking about stronger performance your volume performance being stronger in the small-format channel.
So the recent volume wins have they been in that channel? And the second part question is given that and some of the other competitors have talked about being profitability-challenged in that channel so do you need to readjust your distribution assets in order to improve profitability in the small-format channel? Well I think we continue to look at our efficiencies and our effectiveness of our distribution.
That's one of the areas where we have said from the very beginning here 1 year ago 9 months ago that we think distribution is one of the areas where we have significant opportunity for efficiency gains and be more effective.
And a lot of that plays out in this shift from large format to small format.
You have to be more efficient to service the small format customer than what you may have to be on large format where it may be full truckload.
So absolutely we have to work hard to figure out how to get more efficient with that business.
And you asked about where the volume winds had come from I would sort of characterize them as coming equally across channels so we certainly had some in large format.
Small format food service as well seems to have been a place where the selling story has been particularly well presented and well received over the past couple of quarters.
Got it.
And if I may ask one more.
Given the volume weakness and especially with Walmart at least in one region stepping into the vertical integration now the pace of plant closures can you just walk us through what are the decision points when you decide to close a plant? Is it just a matter of finding the right price or are there more factors involved in that? There's a ton of factors involved in making that decision.
But I would tell you that in general they're all determined off of lowest landed cost.
So as we look at shutting down a facility and how we're going to continue to service our customers as effectively as they've been serviced in the past we look at that and then we look at our lowest landed cost and we determine which facility we need to take out.
So that's how the process works.
It's a fairly extended process and that's why you see us kind of lay these out over a sequencing period over the year.
We said we were going to close 8 to 12.
We've announced 8 already of which 5 of them have already produced their last bottle.
So there's still 3 that the team is working on day-to-day including the one that we announced yesterday in our Denver market.
And your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just first question is on cash flow.
I'm looking at Slide 15 here.
Did you say what the 2013 numbers would be for each of those lines starting with free cash flow.
What's the reported free cash flow going to look like for 2013? So Akshay what we're guiding to is on a normalized basis kind of that $75 million to $100 million range so that's where we think after you take into account the transitional items the onetime items kind more of a onetime nature the $75 million to $100 million of free cash flow this year is the guidance we've actually announced since the beginning of the year.
Research Division</strong> I understand that.
I'm just -- so another way to ask it is when do we get to a normalized level? Because it looks -- obviously $75 million to $100 million I know how you get there; it makes sense.
But what you're reporting is nowhere close to that and I'm just trying to understand what quarter we'll start to see something in that run rate is it 1Q '14 is when we should start to see them? I mean the litigation payments are going to continue but they're small piece.
Some of the other onetime issues are going to go away in '13 right? I mean...
Absolutely.
The 2 big remaining or the 1 big remaining onetime item that we'll see in both Q3 and Q4 is as I mentioned in the prepared remarks and I think also in Q&amp;A earlier is the remaining Morningstar tax payment.
There'll be some other smaller ones but I think you're right.
Through the balance of this year it starts to lessen because most of the separation activities that generated those onetime in nature cash payments are now behind us.
And so then as you get into 2014 we think normalized will start to tend toward reported pretty quickly.
Research Division</strong> And then CapEx staying at elevated levels I mean why -- can you be more granular on that? And if not why not at this stage? And when might we get a CapEx guidance number for next year because it's pretty much in your control so I'm wondering why you can't be more granular on that for next year? We haven't guided in general on anything for next year.
But we have said we do believe that as accelerated cost reduction takes place this year and throughout the first half of next year and potentially depending upon the work we do and the opportunities that we uncover even on through the balance of 2014 that you'll see elevated levels.
And I think we've said sort of elevated levels about in line with this year so our guidance for this year of $150 million to $175 million next year will probably be in a similar range to 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one on EBIT per gallon.
First of all the gallon numbers that you provided are very helpful so thank you for doing that.
But I think your guidance is assuming a sequential like a significant drop in EBIT per gallon somewhere around $0.05 or $0.06 a gallon and that would probably be lowest I have ever seen it.
So can you first address sort of is that the lowest we should ever see it? And then secondly all these cost savings initiatives sound good but when should we really expect those to flow through to that EBIT per gallon number? Should we start seeing that more in '14? And what will be the driver of that? Yes so I'll take the last part first and then I'll backtrack to the first part of the question.
So on sequencing of the savings the first half of this year was mostly the preparation starting the work some small start-up costs.
So the amount of accretion that we would have seen from the accelerated cost reduction in half one of 2013 was I would characterize as very modest.
And then in Q3 you start to get a little bit of traction and then Q4 it begins to hit more of a stride.
Not full stride because we still have more work to do in 2014 but Q4 of this year we'll start to feel a bit more robust in terms of that accelerated cost-reduction actually flowing through to the bottom line.
So on EBIT per gallon in the third quarter absolutely right.
I mean that is the math.
It will be lower in the third quarter.
And some of that is normal seasonality some of it is kind of back to I think Eric's question because WhiteWave and Morningstar previously made the total Dean Foods EBIT per gallon look better because it's a more stable seasonal business now with just the Dean Foods business the Fresh Dairy business.
You will always see a bit more of a depressed EBIT per gallon third quarter but this year perhaps more than most because the full amount of that -- the volume that we lost will transition out in the third quarter.
Recall that the way it seasonalized in the second quarter in April we had lost very little of the Walmart business and by June we lost about 90% of it.
So you sort of see a portion of it come out in the second quarter and then we're at full run rate of volume loss in the third quarter.
With -- as I said a second ago not much of the savings kicking in it.
So that low EBIT per gallon number that you're seeing in the third quarter I can't actually parse how much of it is.
It will be normal going forward because of our seasonal trend and how much of it is going to be onetime in nature but both of those things are going on.
And your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gregg first off there's been some reference to working to variabilize your distribution assets? So just wondering if you can speak to that a little bit? And my follow-up is secondly with Kroger acquiring Harris Teeter how should we be thinking about that or any impact on your business from that if any can you expect it? Great.
As far as variabilizing our distribution we've got a new head of distribution who we've brought in who continues to look at the strategies around what we need to be doing.
And Tony and his team I think are doing a great job of laying out the strategy to figure out what we need to do on the distribution front.
I would tell you that I think we're obviously in the very early innings on distribution so I think we still have a ton of opportunity.
And I think from a variabilization perspective it's probably more on third-party types of distribution that would help us on the distribution side to try and variabilize some.
So I think there's more to come on that as we get further into the year and get the team in place.
As far as the Harris Teeter and Kroger we really don't really see any impact.
And I don't think it'll have any impact on our business.
And your next question comes from the line of Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the outlook.
It seems like according to your guidance last quarter you laid out that you expected volumes be down low to mid-single digits and it seems like you're going to be at the low end of that.
It was down mid-single digits but still within the range and yet you've lowered your EBITDA by about $20 million.
Can you just bridge that gap and what happened there? So it is the effect of moving the -- sort of saying that at this point we don't see low single-digit volume decline as being particularly likely given the -- primarily attributed to what we've talked about a couple of times already the category being a bit softer than we thought it would be.
So that certainly is a contributor to us taking EBITDA down.
And then the other is just kind of the making sure that we're pacing through the cost savings.
And as we said since we've got variable contribution due to the way it seasonalized in the first half now ramping it up in the third quarter and then getting to a higher level of contribution of cost savings in the fourth quarter all of that sort of as we tumble those numbers led us back to saying that at this point the EBITDA being a bit lower seems prudent.
And your next question comes from the line of Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most of mine were answered but could you just give us the revolver balance at the end of the quarter and the availability? Carla if you want to call Tim Smith our Treasurer he'll walk you through the various [indiscernible] outstanding right now.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Clay Crumbliss in for Rob.
just wondering if you could talk about -- if volume continues to decline at this pace can you discuss any changes that you might need to make to your capacity in the future or how you guys are thinking about that? First of all we don't anticipate with -- as we start to take share and as we get our network right we don't anticipate that that will be the case.
But I think you would use the same analogy that we use as we have responded to the RFP.
If you lose too much volume you have to take capacity out.
And I think we would continue on that similar path if that would be the case.
At this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gregg Tanner for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and everybody have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Glen and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our third quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the disposition of our remaining investment in WhiteWave common stock the Morningstar divestiture and those related to our former subsidiary The WhiteWave Foods Company.
In addition certain pro forma adjustments were made to our 2012 results to reflect transactions between our former segments under our current commercial agreements that went into effect upon the completion of the WhiteWave IPO in October 2012 rather than under the intercompany agreements that were in effect throughout the majority of 2012.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings leverage ratios network optimization plans our planned dividend policy our pending debt tender offers anticipated share repurchases and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our third quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Barry and good morning everyone.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today.
Today we reported third quarter adjusted diluted EPS in our guidance range and strong adjusted free cash flow despite a challenging business environment.
Before getting into the details of the quarter however I would like to take a moment to review the progress we've made so far this year against our strategic initiatives to drive our success and create shareholder value which we feel very good about.
We have successfully separated the Morningstar and WhiteWave from Dean Foods including the Q3 disposition of our remaining stock -- stake in WhiteWave which generated $589 million of proceeds and furthered our leverage reduction efforts.
These separation activities allowed us to deliver over $2 billion of value to our shareholders while creating a more focused and deleveraged Dean Foods.
At the end of Q3 our leverage stood at just 1.64x net debt to EBITDA on all cash netted basis.
We have also made strong progress against the accelerated cost reduction initiatives that are helping to offset the impact of the loss of some private label businesses and continued category softness.
To that end we have announced 8 plant closures over the past 12 months 7 of which have been completed.
The closures will improve the efficiency of our remaining network and drive increased competitiveness going forward.
This bolstered competitive position has already enabled us to add significant business wins this year from both new and existing customers.
These wins are beginning to positively impact volumes in the fourth quarter and have started to offset the volume decline related to the previously discussed RFP.
All of these efforts have put us in position for today's announcement that the Board of Directors has adopted a cash dividend policy with the expectation to begin paying a $0.07 quarterly dividend in the first quarter of 2014 equating to annual payments of $0.28 per share.
Dean Foods is a strong cash flowing business and with our healthy balance sheet we believe now is the right time to adopt our dividend policy to provide another avenue of value creation for our shareholders.
This initial dividend payout level is a level that we believe appropriately rewards investors while maintaining our flexibility to also invest to drive value in other ways.
Additionally the Board of Directors has approved an increase in the amount available for share repurchases of our outstanding common stock up to a total of $300 million.
This provides an additional tool to drive shareholder value going forward.
We plan to be opportunistic in our share repurchase activities.
We continue to take action to further bolster our financial strength and flexibility.
This morning we announced that we are initiating cash tender offer for up to $400 million aggregate principal amount of our 2018 and 2016 bonds with priority given to the 2018s.
The transaction is expected to close before year end and if successful should significantly reduce our 2014 interest expense and provide additional free cash flow going forward.
We will fund the tender offer through existing cash on hand and borrowings under our senior secured credit facility.
So overall we have made clear progress year-to-date on several key fronts to strengthen both our financial and our competitive position and to deliver value to our stockholders.
However as I mentioned we had a challenging third quarter.
Industry volumes remain soft raw milk cost increased and our transitory costs in production and distribution associated with the loss of volumes and plant closures were higher than we anticipated resulting in an operating performance that was below our plan.
In this difficult environment we generated adjusted operating income of $42 million compared to $57 million in Q3 2012 on a pro forma and comparable basis.
This resulted in adjusted net income of $11 million and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.12 per share which was within our guidance range of $0.10 to $0.16 per share.
Strong working capital performance drove a solid quarter of cash flow resulting in year-to-date adjusted free cash flow of $97 million.
This compares to our full year guidance for adjusted free cash flow of between $75 million and $100 million.
We now believe we will end the year at the top of that range.
And as I mentioned net debt to EBITDA declined to 1.64x in the quarter.
The partial loss of business with a significant customer combined with our general category weaknesses resulted in total volumes of 685 million gallons for the quarter.
This represents an 8% decline from 749 million gallons in Q3 of 2012 on a pro forma and comparative basis.
Within fluid milk specifically industry category volumes declined approximately 1.7% for the quarter on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods.
On this same unadjusted basis our fluid milk volumes declined 10%.
This quarter's volumes reflect the full negative impact of the RFP-driven volume loss for the first time but don't yet reflect the offsetting business we are beginning to build with other customers.
Excluding the impact of the RFP and another customer's decision to vertically integrate last year our fluid milk volumes declined 1.7% in the quarter which is consistent with the overall category.
On a channel basis weakness in large-format retail was particularly -- was partially offset by continued strength in the school and small format channels.
We continue to focus on strengthening our volumes and recent wins have started to positively impact volumes in the fourth quarter.
The new business wins that are coming online in the fourth quarter of this year equate to roughly 60 million gallons on an annualized basis.
However we continue to expect our volumes to underperform the broader industry in Q4 and through the first half of 2014 due to the ongoing year-over-year impact of the lost business.
On a year-to-date basis our total milk volumes have declined 7%.
Considering category trends in the third quarter and the impact of the lost volume and new business over the rest of the year we expect our full year fluid milk volumes to decline about 7%.
Our share of the fluid milk category was 34.9% in the quarter.
We expect our share to stabilize and begin to increase from this level over the coming quarters.
Our national flavored milk brand TruMoo lapped the strong 21% growth from the third quarter of 2012 with a 2% volume decline in this year's third quarter consistent with the overall category decline.
Looking at the fourth quarter we are back on air with television advertising after a break during the traditional summer quiet period.
The Halloween season is quickly becoming one of our most important for TruMoo.
We have introduced new seasonal TruMoo products that we've seen deliver a sales lift in our past pilots including limited edition vanilla milk that's tinted orange for Halloween a chocolate peppermint flavor that we're introducing in the Northeast this December and a vanilla milk tinted green for St.
Patrick's Day in the Northeast.
We continue to see opportunities to grow the popular TruMoo brand as we move forward.
We are leveraging some of the learnings from the success of TruMoo to apply to our portfolio of regional white milk brands.
For example we are transitioning these brands to a common graphics look that includes our Purity checklist that assures our consumers that our farmers' pledge not to use artificial growth hormones and that we test all of our milk for the presence of antibiotics among other important differentiators.
Through robust research we know that this messaging resonates with consumers.
And the conversion of our graphics to a new common look allows us to begin to benefit from our brand equities across our portfolio.
At the same time it opens avenues for us to leverage marketing spend across traditional regional brand borders.
Turning to pricing retailers continue to price private label milk at levels consistent with historical norms with the margin over milk or the spread between Class I Mover and retail price of private label gallons at approximately $1.52 per gallon in Q3 compared to $1.58 per gallon in the previous quarter and $1.65 per gallon in Q3 of 2012.
Average price gaps between our brands and private label in Q3 were consistent with Q2 and year ago levels.
Class I raw milk prices continue to increase in the third quarter.
On average the Class I price in the third quarter was 5% higher than Q2 and 15% above year-ago levels.
Strong Chinese demand for whole milk powder has helped keep world milk prices stubbornly high this fall.
We expect this to continue through the balance of the year with Q4 milk prices now expected to be above our previous forecast and to top $20 per hundredweight in both November and December.
While we remain watchful of our global supply and demand dynamics as we look ahead to 2014 assuming normal weather patterns we continue to believe that solid global supply growth will lead to declining prices in at least the first half of 2014.
A major cornerstone of our efficiency efforts in 2013 and '14 includes the planned closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network or 8 to 12 plants by mid-2014.
As part of this initiative and as I noted earlier we have announced the closure of 8 facilities with 7 already closed.
Since we began ramping up activities late last year we have strong momentum behind these initiatives and expect increased savings in the fourth quarter and into 2014 to help to offset the volume deleverage associated with the lost business.
However with the full impact of the RFP volume declines and associated accelerated plant closure activity in the quarter production costs declines lagged the decline in volumes resulting in higher per unit cost in the quarter and lower overall gross profit.
Similarly distribution costs declined $15 million on a year-over-year basis.
However this 5% reduction is behind the rate of volume decline in the quarter leading to an increase in per unit distribution costs.
While closing manufacturing facilities drives production efficiencies these are partially offset by increased miles driven by products -- driven as products are shipped back into the areas surrounding the closed facilities.
However in Q3 with the significant plant closure activity and the full brunt of the volume losses associated with the RFP the level of additional distribution expense temporarily increased even beyond the normal uptick.
We believe the increase per unit production and distribution cost is temporary and that cost will come in line with volumes as we move past this period of accelerated plant closure activity.
Helping to offset this increased cost was a $38 million reduction in SG&amp;A costs in the third quarter from the year-ago period.
A major portion of the decrease is attributable to the reduction of incentive compensation expense related to operational performance that is below our targets.
As a result of the Q3 headwinds related to the rapid transition of volume due to the RFP and the associated transitory costs we reported a 27% year-over-year decrease in operating income.
Operating income totaled $42 million for the quarter which is a decline of $15 million compared to the prior year quarter.
As we look ahead to Q4 and into 2014 we continue to see difficult overlaps through the first half of the year but expect performance to improve as we reach the anniversary of the volume loss realize the benefit of our cost and interest savings initiatives and accumulate additional new volume wins.
With that I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q3 results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance in the quarter.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as Gregg noted total volumes declined 8% in the quarter.
Although we are making progress in our cost reduction initiatives the transition of these volumes out of our network outpaced the impact of our efforts and resulted in fixed asset deleverage within the quarter.
This drove a year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of $67 million or 13%.
Lower volumes and cost productivity drove a $15 million net reduction in distribution costs.
SG&amp;A cost declined $38 million in large part due to reduced incentive compensation expense.
This resulted in an operating income decline of $15 million or 27% to $42 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $81 million.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA through the third quarter is $301 million.
Interest expense came in at $24 million for the quarter in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded adjusted diluted EPS of $0.12 for the quarter.
As of the end of the third quarter total net debt outstanding stood at approximately $671 million.
Our net debt to EBITDA leverage ratio on September 30 was 1.64x a significant decline from the 3.52x at the end of the fourth quarter of 2012 with all cash netted against outstanding debt.
This sharp decline is predominantly a result of the debt reduction driven by the proceeds for the Morningstar sale and the July disposition of our investment in WhiteWave common stock offset by nonrecurring cash outlays associated with our separation activities including the Q2 and Q3 payments toward the tax bill associated with the gain on the Morningstar divestiture.
Our objective remains to maintain a leverage ratio below 2.5x net funded debt to EBITDA.
With the disposition of our remaining WhiteWave stake we are now comfortably below that level.
Following our Q4 Morningstar tax payment and the increase in total debt associated with the bond tender we expect our net debt to EBITDA leverage ratio to be approximately 2x at year end.
Year-to-date net cash used in continuing operations was $259 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $90 million resulting in free cash flow used in continuing operations of $349 million.
Negative free cash flow has been primarily driven by the $315 million tax payment associated with the Morningstar sale the $35 million impact of moving WhiteWave and Morningstar to external accounts receivable and accounts payable the $28 million interest rate swap termination fee associated with our Morningstar sale-driven debt reduction approximately $31 million of deal costs a tax payment of $15 million associated with certain tax obligations recognized upon completion of the WhiteWave spinoff and our $19 million litigation payment as well as other onetime items primarily associated with the separation of Morningstar and WhiteWave from the business.
On an adjusted basis which excludes the Morningstar tax payments other onetime uses of cash associated with our strategic activities this year litigation payments and certain other items we have generated approximately $97 million in year-to-date adjusted free cash flow.
We expect to end the year at approximately this level.
We believe we will be able to substantially accelerate our free cash flow generation before dividend payments from this level over the coming years through decreased interest expense and capital expenditures as well as operating income growth.
These expectations and our strengthened financial position give us the confidence to adopt a dividend policy initiate a cash tender offer for up to $400 million of aggregate principal amount of our 2018 and 2016 bonds and increase our available share repurchase authorization to a total of $300 million.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Gregg for some closing remarks and a review of our forward outlook.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
In summary notwithstanding the challenges of the third quarter we continue to feel confident in our long-term trajectory.
We are actively working to extend our competitive advantages through aggressively reducing costs and enhancing our strengths and capabilities.
We continue to work through the impact of the significant volume loss we experienced due to the customer RFP by closing excess production capacity in our network and targeting new business.
At the same time we have put the pieces in place to enhance shareholder value by utilizing our strong balance sheet and growing free cash flows.
That said over the near term the external environment remains challenging.
With soft industry volumes and persistently high milk prices additionally with approximately 8% of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or SNAP benefits spent in the dairy category we're cautious about the impact that the recent 5% reduction in those benefits related to the expiration of the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will have on industry and broader grocery volumes.
The dairy commodity environment looked more challenging than previously expected as prices remain stubbornly high despite strong global production growth.
Industry volumes remain soft.
We expect to continue to have temporarily high cost in Q4 related to the plant closure activities.
We expect this to be partially offset by our recent new business wins that will begin to improve our volume performance in the fourth quarter.
All told we expect Q4 EPS of $0.17 to $0.23 per share resulting in full year earnings per share of between $0.85 and $0.91.
Additionally we now expect full year adjusted EBITDA to be between $391 million and $400 million and for adjusted free cash flow to end the year at approximately $100 million.
As we look ahead difficult overlaps will make the first half of 2014 challenging and we would expect volumes and operating profit to continue to trend below year-ago levels through the first half of next year.
To wrap up although Q3 was more challenging than anticipated we believe many of the factors impacting our performance were transitory as we move toward a more efficient cost structure.
We are excited about today's dividend policy announcement bond tender offer and share repurchase authorization and believe these will be important tools for bolstering total returns for our stockholders in the future.
We remain confident we are taking the right steps to build a strong foundation for future success and I'd like to recognize and thank our employees for their very hard work toward that goal.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gregg you gave us a sense that raw milk costs could be down year-on-year during the first half of 2014.
Assuming that does hold should we -- I guess does the continued impact of the private label contract loss and then as you mentioned the potential for volume pressure from the reduction in SNAP benefits limit your flexibility to potentially see some upside to mid-single-digit EBITDA growth even if we're looking at a deflationary environment? I think it will depend Matthew to some degree on what level of deflationary environment we see.
Right now as we look at the first half of next year we see that being difficult and I think that that's going to continue to play out with our higher prices.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Chris just on the balance sheet you mentioned where you expect to be at year end but assuming some level of ongoing borrowings from the senior secured facility to fund buybacks or to fund the ongoing dividend what should we consider sort of a steady-state level of leverage going forward? And should it be slightly above 2x or do you see that 2x holding? And then with respect to share repurchases can you give us a rough sense of the level of buybacks you'd expect on a run-rate basis? Yes so I think the right way to think about that Matthew is for leverage kind of at that 2x to 2.5x that we've set as the ceiling.
We certainly have no expectations of going above but we think the 2% -- the 2x that we're at now is the level going forward that makes sense.
We wouldn't think to fund the dividend out of borrowings.
We'd think to fund the dividend out of free cash flow.
And as far as repurchases as Gregg said in the prepared remarks we are thinking about that opportunistically.
So it's not really so much about kind of having a vision today of how much we would dedicate to that but more how those opportunities to buy back Dean Foods shares might present themselves.
And your next question comes from the line of Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just on the dividend I guess can you talk about what the outlook is in terms of what the growth potential of that is and is there like a target payout ratio or will it grow in line with earnings? Yes I mean I think it's one where any board -- we will continue to look at this on an annual basis and see what we should do with it.
But right now we're seeing it as a payout of between 30% and 35% and we would expect that to continue to be somewhere in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly on the business in terms of I guess a follow-up on Matt's question looking out for next year.
I guess I thought -- you had a transition services agreement at WhiteWave that would roll off.
It would be a pretty significant impact to the P&amp;L that should help you I guess grow next year.
And then just thinking about the business longer term in terms of you're growing mid-single digits.
I guess is that -- what does that assume in terms of volumes? Is that just the category declines 1% to 2% a year and you guys are in line with the category or do you take share to get there? Can you give us I guess maybe some parameters around that as well? Yes I'll -- let me start with the $20 million to $30 million in stranded costs associated with the Morningstar and the WhiteWave businesses.
So if you think about those those are coming off.
We're continuing in removing these costs as we speak.
But some of those transition costs will continue for the next 3 to 9 months.
So as we work off the transition services agreements we'll take those costs out of the system.
Second part of your question can you remind me the second? Do you want to say the rest of your question again? Research Division</strong> Yes just in terms of thinking about getting back onto track of growing EBITDA mid-single digits what does that imply in terms of volumes you guys versus what your outlook is for the category and kind of what your share gains are relative to that -- to get to that number? Basically Ryan all -- we have to maintain basically flat volume.
So we'll have to continue to outperform the category of which we're very confident we can do.
We think our third quarter was our low point.
We have gained share 14 out of the last 16 quarters and we expect to get back on that trend here in the fourth quarter of this year and as we go into 2014.
But to be able to deliver the algorithm we have to be able to maintain about flat volume.
And I really would -- I think about the same way Gregg answered the first question think about next year in terms of kind of half 1 half 2.
So throughout the first half of the year while we're still overlapping the volume loss from the private label RFP that will continue to create challenges.
Now even though our accelerated cost reduction program will start to contribute more and more to that offset the first half of the year with that tough half volume overlap and even though we do have -- we expect to have some favorable tailwinds from lower milk cost I don't think it will likely make up the total difference between the volume loss on the RFP.
Then you get into the back half of the year now we've anniversary-ed the volume loss and at that point we feel like that that mid-single-digit operating income growth target that we talked about at that point we're kind of into the future state for Dean Foods and where we've got that volume loss fully behind us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just to be specific the volume loss started in the middle of the second quarter? I'm just trying to think of when you lap it.
It was towards the end of the second quarter.
It was right towards the end that we started losing big pieces of it.
I'd kind of characterize the second quarter as being about half of the ultimate run rate and then the third quarter we were at run rate.
So throughout the second quarter next year we'll be anniversary-ing the loss.
And your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gregg thinking of the cost savings here you're already working through 8 of these 8 to 12 facilities I guess.
Are you seeing anything out there that may lead you to either stop the program here or would you anticipate hitting the full 12 or going further from there? I don't see anything that would stop us where we're at.
We're continuing to look at our network to see where we have additional opportunities.
We think -- we've closed 7 of the 8 so far and we anticipate that there will be additional announcements coming.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I guess maybe second generation savings.
Is there a way to think about packaging opportunities or centralized sourcing or even the direct store delivery fleet and better monetizing that going forward? P I think there continues to be opportunities on both those fronts whether it be in the indirect procurement side of things or whether it be in what we call purchase for resale.
We think there continues to be opportunities in that arena on the procurement side to leverage our scale.
On the distribution side I think we just -- we have continued opportunity on multiple fronts.
I think there's the optimization of just our current fleet.
I think there's ways that we can take miles and optimize our routes that will allow us to take money out.
So I'm confident in our cost reduction efforts over the next 2 to 3 years that we'll maintain close to the levels that we've seen in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first I wanted to just go back to the volume trajectory.
So the industry kind of declining at about 2% the RFP loss is about 8 points and then the new business wins are about 2 points.
So I guess really in the first half of next year assuming that the industry kind of still down a little bit and you still have the impact of 8 points or so it sounds like the first half volume's going to be still pretty challenging.
And I'm just wondering if there is any other number one other business opportunities that you can win to offset some of the volume loss that you're looking actively at? Secondly the volume deleveraging that you're experiencing at this point can you just help me understand sort of the phasing of how that gets impacted as you get into the first half? Have we seen really that the most negative impact from a profitability perspective do we start to see that flow more positively in the first half? Okay.
Let me take the first part of that.
There continues to be opportunities as we continue to drive our competitive side of our business that we think there's volume out there to be had.
So I am confident that we can -- we'll continue to chip away at the 180 million gallons that we have lost.
So I think that's the big piece that we continue to have.
Is there any one customer who can make that up? Absolutely not so we're going to have to continue to go after multiple customers to try and offset some of that volume.
And our expectation is is we'll do that over some period of time.
I don't know if that's a couple years or 3 years or what period of time that is but we will continue to work towards that.
On the second part of that I think we have reached the low point from a transition -- a transitory cost perspective.
The biggest thing Judy as we have transitioned out of the plants has been the kind of the lingering cost structure.
So you have severance that goes on for 2 or 3 months.
You have multiple other as long as you're maintaining the security of the facility until you can dispose of it so there's a number of costs that continue on.
Those will start to fall off as we come out and we will then start to pick up more of the cost savings that we've delivered this year and get the full year effect as we move into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then Chris just on -- I know you talked about the share buyback being more opportunistic.
But as I think about next year your free cash -- adjusted free cash flow probably would step up with the lower interest expenses.
You'll be ending the year sort of 2x net debt to EBITDA leverage and the dividend is probably about $27 million $28 million per year.
So it sounds like you do have flexibility $80 million-plus sort of flexibility to the buyback next year.
Is that kind of how we should think about just in terms of what you can do from a buyback capacity perspective in 2014? Well first I'd say Judy kind of the way I'm thinking about it is the lower interest next year about $20 million after tax benefit of the lower interest payments that feels pretty close to the amount of the dividend that we're talking about.
So those feel in a similar range you have the ability essentially to fund the dividend most of the dividend through the lower interest expense that we'll enjoy next year.
Then on share repurchase you could look at it in terms of what's free cash flow leftover at that point whether it's kind of in that same $75 million to $100 million range as this year or you can say hey we just have a lot of dry powder on the balance sheet and if the opportunity presented itself you could actually buy back since the authorization is now increased to $300 million.
I wouldn't think of it as being limited by free cash flow so much as by our -- the capacity of the balance sheet.
But it's really limited by how we and the Board of Directors assess the opportunity to go out and opportunistically buy those shares back.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I have just 2 questions for you.
I want to make sure I was clear on as you're closing these plants and obviously you've already lost the volume from Walmart are you still in a position where that obviously is a drag on profitability such that as you get to 2014 and you have sort of the full run rate of savings and of course you've lapped the volume you've lost this year should we see an acceleration in operating profit growth just due to the timing factor around those 2 items? Yes I think Chris I think it goes back to what Chris talked about earlier Chris Bellairs talked about earlier.
And that is this kind of half 1 half 2.
I think you'll see that in the second half of '14.
I think in the first half of '14 it will continue to be tough just because of the volume lap.
And I wouldn't think of half 2 as being acceleration beyond our mid-single-digit rates that we've talked about in the past.
The first half is challenging and the second half starts to look more like what we think the long-term trajectory looks like.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I want to ask as you're seeking new business and new volume presumably you have a margin target -- or should we think about this new business being at least neutral to accretive to your margins in the dairy business? Well that's really a tough one to call Chris because it's going to be very dependent upon channel geography customer.
So it depends on where that gets obviously if it's in the outside of the large-format retail it's going to be a higher margin.
If it falls within the large-format retailer it's probably going to be pretty weak margins.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess kind of related to that or a follow-up would be I understood -- you seem to be less volume-focused than you have been historically.
And I guess I'm just trying to understand are you looking just to add volume I won't say at any cost but basically trying to add volume or is there sort of a return threshold maybe within each segment which you're trying to hold? I don't think there's -- I think what we're trying to do is make sure that we're pricing competitively and that we're pricing prudently to make sure that we do have margin that's appropriate for our returns.
And I think that's what we'll continue to do.
We're not going to chase volume just for volume's sake.
We're going to make sure that we're going to make money at it.
Yes I think that business you see coming on in the fourth quarter is a good example of the team doing a nice job of kind of striking that balance between pricing to win the bid but also pricing to deliver a fair return to the business and I think we're putting some pretty good processes in place to strike that balance.
Your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> You do anticipate getting $120 million of cost savings in 2013 and are you still expecting to get sort of 75% of those here in the second half of '13? We continue to believe that we're on track for our $120 million.
I'm not sure where the 75% in the second half comes from Farha.
But we do anticipate that we'll be on our $120 million in cost savings for the year.
Research Division</strong> And then for next year you're going back to your normalized rate of $80 million? Yes $80 million to $100 million.
$80 million to $100 million maybe a little higher than that.
There's 2 components Farha.
There's 2 components to next year.
Obviously there's the benefit that we'll get from the accelerated cost reduction activities from this year so those are really just now ramping up.
As we talked on the call last quarter we got and we expected to get fairly little benefit from the accelerated cost reduction in the third quarter.
That will ramp up some in the fourth quarter.
And then throughout next year you get an accelerated benefit from that -- from the positive overlap.
The other component though is kind of our base cost savings that will result from our annual planning process.
And so that's still playing its way out.
So I think Gregg and I are a little reluctant to commit too much to the cost savings algorithm for next year until we put the planning process to bed here in the next few weeks.
But I would think there is nothing that would keep us from believing that we would stay on a similar trajectory to past years.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just on the category with the SNAP programs being cut and commodity dairy prices being high what do you look for in terms of 2014 volumes for the industry? And are you seeing increased competition for volume in the industry given that volumes are contracting? We're in an extremely competitive industry so I expect that competitiveness to continue.
I don't think -- we'll continue to fight for volume the same as we have all along.
I like the hand we have and I think we're going to -- we're in a competitive position to be able to win the majority of those fights.
So I think from that aspect I don't see that changing.
As we look at commodity prices and the SNAP program moving into 2014 I can't really speculate on SNAP at this point.
It will be very dependent upon what our representatives do.
And then as far as the commodities we believe that we're going to see it start to fall off in the first half of next year.
It's going to be well over somewhere around the 20-plus in the fourth quarter and we expect that to start to decline in the first and second quarters of next year as we think milk supply around the world will continue to pick up.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I start with the retailer environment? You mentioned that the price gap between private label milk at retail and Class I Mover have compressed sequentially over the last little while.
Are you seeing more pressure from the retailers as general II [ph] prices have come down that might cause you some problems going forward? No Alexia I don't think so.
I think what we're seeing is that the reason that starts to compress to some degree is that as prices get so high there's thresholds and price points that retailers don't want to go beyond.
And I think that that's really what drives that compression more so than anything that would tell us that they are trying to reduce their margin over milk.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a quick follow-up the volume decline in the -- although the volumes were obviously coming through a little worse than expected in the third quarter I just wanted to get clarity.
It sounds as though that was more to do with weaker-than-expected market share.
Was it the category that was also a little weaker than expected? And was it branded that came through -- for you was it branded volume that came through a bit worse than expected not just the private label RFP that we -- you'd already lost? All right on the first part of that it was really more the category.
I think our volume was pretty much what we had anticipated with the loss of the RFP and the other changes in our business.
But the category was softer than what we had initially anticipated.
As far as where that came out of our brand share actually was at an all-time high in the third quarter.
We were up 120 basis points versus the second quarter.
And that -- so we're happy with how our brands are doing.
It's just that we got to get the category going.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Well I don't know you're probably in a room so you may not be aware but your stock is down about 7% to 8%.
And so I think it's probably fair to then ask with the market not particularly happy today maybe you can kind of go into the decision to offer what I would say is a relatively modest dividend and dividend yield payout ratio versus a more significant authorization? Maybe you could kind of walk us through kind of the decision between those 2? Well let me -- first of all I will tell you that I believe and I think our Board of Directors believes that when we were evaluating options for returning value to shareholders we wanted to be very comfortable with the amount of the dividend we launched when we launched the program.
And we think that that provided investors with a market competitive yield.
It's about at the average of the S&amp;P 500.
So I'm not sure why anybody would be disappointed with where that would come out.
And then I think beyond that we believe that we preserve the flexibility to invest in the business and return capital to shareholders through other share repurchases in an opportunistic basis and other opportunities that we may have.
So I don't -- I'm not sure there's a need to apologize to anyone for the dividend rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question I guess this is maybe a little bit of hindsight's 20/20 but it seems that with all the cost savings efforts that you are making and plant reductions et cetera but the overhang of the Walmart account loss is now -- it sounds like the battle to offset that is going to essentially last into the let's say middle of 2014 before kind of shareholders see the benefit of the cost savings effort.
So I guess Gregg if you had to go back would you have bid more aggressively for that and not have to deal with so much reduced fixed cost absorption? And maybe it's more appropriate to ask then is with your new cost position is there really accounts that you could see are vulnerable or you would not go through this kind of exercise again? Eric I often looked in the mirror many times over the last year to figure out if we would have or should have done something different in that process.
And I still come to the same conclusion.
We were I think prudent with the shareholders' money in what we thought was right for Dean Foods Company.
So I wouldn't have necessarily bid it differently.
I think we are -- we did what we believed was right.
And I think in our trying to take our fixed cost and the volume out or the capacity out of the system now is going to serve us better when this is all said and done.
So I don't -- I wouldn't say that I would probably have done it differently.
There may have been geographies that we may have looked at differently but other than that I think we did what was absolutely right.
Research Division</strong> Last question and I'll pass it on.
Just looking -- there's been some obviously some questions about 2014.
And Chris I'm trying to kind of think about the bridge here.
Let's kind of start at the bottom.
So given the stock's weakness I assume you're going to be more aggressive and there'll be some share repo benefit to 2014.
You've got maybe $0.20 benefit from your lower interest expense roughly and you're talking about maybe $80 million of savings maybe even higher than that relative to call it I don't know $220 million $230 million of EBIT wherever you're going to end this year.
So I'm kind of having a tough time -- unless the fixed cost absorption is so severe I'm kind of having a tough time seeing why EBIT in the second half is really only up 4% 5% which I guess would lend itself to being a 2014 EBIT growth rate of just very modest.
Am I just thinking about that incorrectly or...? I'll start at the beginning.
First I'd just caution you on the share repurchase piece because we haven't laid any plans in place on that yet and the board and management will continue to look at that.
So I just -- before you go down the path of assuming share repurchase for next year I would advise caution.
On the operating income algorithm I think kind of the way we talked about it in the call several times already with the first half being challenging and then the second half starting to improve from there as we anniversary the volume and then also have the sort of the final benefit of the cost savings I think you do see an improvement sequentially.
But I think you're thinking about it right.
I think next year with the slower start that we're expecting coupled with a back half that starts to get back towards the longer-term algorithm we described feels like the math that we're looking toward.
But again not having put the 2014 plan to bed yet it's premature for us to have that conversation and we will be back in 3 months to walk you through our guidance for 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg can you talk about the raw milk environment? Clearly we talked about it a couple of times already that prices are a little bit higher than what we would have expected going into or what you expected going into the quarter.
What's the outlook look like in the first half 1Q and 2Q sequentially and then now year-over-year for the rest of the year? I mean if you just kind of think about our forecast anyway I would probably call you -- sometime -- somewhere in the mid 18s as you think about the first quarter of next year.
And then probably getting down in the mid 17s sometime in the second quarter.
I just think it's going to be very dependent upon on the powder demand in China.
I mean that's probably the single biggest driver we have right now of the global demand is whole milk powder and skim powder going to China.
Got it.
And then looking forward if we look at your cost-saving initiatives and you've certainly made some changes to your management team your reporting lines is the trajectory still the same what it was last year or earlier this year? Or you feel like you're getting to the point where some of these contributions are going to start to show up a little bit more in the back half of this year -- or 2014 I mean? Well I think the changes we made in the third quarter were really more focused on the commercial and the growth side of this business and the desire to get more focused on the commercial and growing the business.
So that was why we made the change.
I think from a cost perspective Tony Brooks and Shay Braun who lead our logistics and our operations team are on track to do what we need to do as we finish this year and go into 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify about the front half guidance for next year.
Are we talking about on an EPS basis you expect the entire front half or each of the 2 quarters of the front half to be down year-over-year? Just a clarification on that please? Yes I think it's an overlap.
We haven't done our 2014 plan.
So anything that we're talking about all we're trying to say is that we know that the overlap in the first half of next year because of the volume loss is going to be tough.
I mean that's just that's the given part.
I don't think it's a quarter-to-quarter as much as it's just -- we don't want to -- we can't get into 2014 guidance because we have...
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So it's really premature to say? Yes we'll put the plan together now and we'll be back to you.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And on the adjusted cash flow looks like you came in at the high end -- you're going to come in at the high end for the full year.
You were talking $75 million to $100 million I think on the last call.
On an adjusted basis I know what the puts and takes are on a pre-adjusted basis but on an adjusted basis what sort of -- clearly the results this quarter were in the middle and now next quarter is looking to be a little bit disappointing.
So what's the big delta on an adjusted basis in terms of cash flow? What's the big delta in the fourth quarter or...? Research Division</strong> Yes in that fourth.
It looks -- it seems that -- in that fourth quarter yes.
Yes so we still have one more of the Morningstar tax payments to make in the fourth quarter.
We still have $100 million of the Morningstar tax payment that falls into the fourth quarter.
So we think after getting to the full year on -- getting to year-to-date where we are at the high end of the range and with the Morningstar tax payment in the fourth quarter and it's kind of the normal seasonality for our business a very large portion of our full year CapEx will get spent in the fourth quarter.
So those 3 factors kind of conspire to suggest to us that we'll finish the year about where we are now at the high end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And just finally I know you haven't committed to a level of share repurchase or anything like that and the board has to discuss that.
But could you talk about when you think about the other things you could do with cash I mean clearly you've talked about a 2 to 2.5 range.
You told us you'll finish the year at 2 so there's cash there potentially to use.
What sort of hurdle rate do you think about or use as you apply to areas of the business whether it's an incremental plant closure or something else an acquisition something else you might do besides share repurchase.
Just what number do you use philosophically to think about your rate of return? I think it's going to be that there's 2 different ways that I think about that.
And one is what do we do with that money from an investment back into our business locally.
And much of that is around how do we improve our own internal capabilities and drive cost reductions.
So there's a certain part of that that I would expect.
We're trying to drive 25% 30% returns on our cost reduction efforts.
And we continue to drive -- other alternatives would be is there any other ways to figure out how to grow the business.
So is there M&amp;A opportunities or other opportunities that may allow us to grow the business.
But all of those should be coming in that same vein of similar types of returns.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Gregg I was interested in your comment that your brand market share was up sequentially 120 basis points versus second quarter.
And I wanted to know was that a pleasant surprise? And if so why would that not have helped your profits more? I think you've said in the past that your branded businesses is much more profitable than your private label business and I wanted to make sure that that's still true and maybe you can give me an order of magnitude and why didn't it help third quarter more? Yes I mean I think it's one where -- first let me clarify the 120 basis points is over prior year not over the previous quarter.
But I think it's our brand volume as a share of brands out there we're in the 44 range from a share perspective.
And that -- but it's tough to offset when the category itself has declined at the levels that it has.
I don't think our profitability on our brands have changed dramatically from what we've talked about in the past.
So Chris you have any...? No I think that's exactly right.
I think the profitability the incremental profit that we enjoy on the branded business is about what it's historically been.
It's a good premium and it was in the third quarter.
But as Gregg said we've gained that share over the last year not over just one quarter.
So the effect of kind of the quarter-over-quarter increase or even the increase over the prior year is in our P&amp;L.
It just does get sort of overwhelmed by the soft category by high milk prices by the lagging cost takeout relative to volume.
So it's definitely in there but it gets a little bit lost in the noise of all the other things that are sort of working against us right now.
Research Division</strong> May I ask is there anything you're doing operationally to push your brands a little harder and is it getting any traction with retailers? Or like I don't get -- I don't ever get the sense that when you talk about your brands that you're really -- that there is any initiatives to extend them further versus private label? Well I think if you think about our brand we talked a little bit in our prepared remarks about moving towards a more consistent type of brand with our dairy pure initiatives.
And I think that's one thing that we try to do is to take advantage of the scale across buying our advertising and other things on a national basis versus a regional basis which comes at about 1/2 the price.
So there's things like that that we're doing Robert.
But as far as major innovation on the brands we continue to do our consumer research to find out where the consumer believes there's value to be had.
But I feel confident in our regional brands and we have some very very strong regional brands.
We continue to look at opportunities to consolidate those regional brands to try to get more scale.
And our real success in the branded environment -- our real focus in the branded environment over the past couple of years hasn't been on white milk so much as it's been on the flavored milk.
So TruMoo is the huge success that it's been within the branded consumer packaged goods environment not just in milk but I think we've demonstrated begun to demonstrate that there is an opportunity there is an avenue for relevant brands with consumers via the TruMoo successes that we've had.
And your final question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So first question is in terms of your EBITDA guidance and it coming down relative to the preliminary number can you tell us what the main drivers of that were and in terms of -- and if you can rank them too that would be great.
So I think it's kind of across the entire portfolio of our P&amp;L Akshay.
I think it starts at the top of the category throughout this year has been a bit softer than we expected going in.
I think milk prices raw milk prices have been a bit higher than we expected them to be and that results in both the softer category has an impact on the category.
Gregg talked earlier about kind of high price points on average for milk out in the retail environment.
And it has a cost drag on our P&amp;L as milk is more expensive that does flow through our P&amp;L in areas like milk shrink.
So if we spill more expensive milk on the floor there's no way to get around that that has a drag on our P&amp;L.
And then you continue down through the P&amp;L I think that the cost savings that we plan for this year for both the accelerated cost reduction program that was in response to the RFP loss and just the base cost savings that we churn out every year that kind of $80 million to $100 million run rate that we've been on for the past several years I think both of those have lagged a bit versus our expectations.
So really whether it's the top of the P&amp;L category our volume pricing as it relates to the raw milk cost environment or our cost savings initiatives each one of those has probably been just a bit off of where we expected it to be.
And the convergence of all of those factors results in that lower EBITDA number that we're guiding to now.
It's not really one thing.
It's a portfolio of things that has sort of broken against us throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when I just think of sort of gross profit or EBIT per gallon I mean first of all what's the -- which is a better number to look at as a base starting in 3Q? That's point number one.
And number two is shouldn't that number sequentially just continue to get better? And what is a normalized number that you think you can get to either on gross profit per gallon or EBIT per gallon? Feels like we're back into the 2014 AOP question again.
So first on your first question I'm not sure which is the better number.
I mean are they different? We look at both and we think they're both valuable.
And they kind of -- they probably end up taking you in about the same direction whether you're looking at OI per gallon or EBITDA per gallon.
And then on the sequential aspect yes we do believe that from this point forward whether it's on an absolute volume or kind of a cost structure as it relates to any deleveraging that we've experienced we think we are at or near the bottom of that now that we're in the third quarter at the full run rate of our volume loss.
We think in the fourth quarter we're beginning to see the benefits of the volume that we've gained as a response to that.
So we think going forward other than the normal seasonal flows that you experience on our business so when you say sequentially every quarter no.
When we get to the third quarter next year we think that like the third quarter of this year our business deleverages as the school business is lighter.
And we think we'd see a reduction in profit per gallon sequentially or seasonally.
But as a general trajectory from here forward yes we're going to head back to that same path that Gregg talked about earlier that from the period from 2009 to 2012 over those 16 quarters we gained share in 14 of them.
We're right back on that path from this point forward and we think that whether it's 2014 or 2015 or 2016 we're looking at a P&amp;L algorithm that will lead to sequentially increasing OI per gallon.
Exactly what number that gets to over time I'm not ready to tell you yet but I will tell you it gets higher.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one on capacity utilization.
So what was roughly the utilization rate in your plants this quarter? And after you finish closing the 7 plants that you've announced where will utilization be and what quarter will we be at that run rate assuming the volumes are what you think they're going to be? Well I -- that's a really tough one to answer because I think if you look at our overall capacity you would think about our capacity being somewhere around 6% to 7% volume decline.
And we're telling you we're taking 10% to 15% of our capacity out -- or our plants out.
So my expectation is you're going to get somewhere around 5% to 7% improvement in our asset utilization assuming that the category continues on the trajectory that it's at today.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your questions.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Gregg Tanner for closing.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you again for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and we'll look forward to talking to you in 3 months.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer Mr.
Tim Smith.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Mina and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to an 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with a slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the spin-off and disposition of our remaining investment in WhiteWave common stock the Morning divestiture and the early retirement of debt.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings network optimization plans dairy commodity pricing the payment of any future dividends anticipated share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our first quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
I would expect approximately 30 minutes of prepared remarks followed by 30 minutes of Q&amp;A.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Tim and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
As you know we entered 2014 facing substantial margin pressure in our milk business as Class I raw milk prices have continued to reach all-time new highs and for the quarter were 22% higher than last year.
This morning we reported first quarter results that were below our previously articulated adjusted diluted earnings per share range of approximately breakeven with $0.03 of potential risk or benefit to such guidance.
For the quarter we reported a net loss of $0.05 in adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted operating income of $7 million both were down considerably from year-ago results.
The first quarter continued to be affected by a challenging environment which we previously indicated would be the case through the first half of 2014.
Key challenges during the quarter included the following: First raw milk costs posted all-time highs in February and then again in March which can create increased pressure on our margins as pricing in retail can be pressured by price gap and price threshold considerations.
In addition higher raw milk costs raised the cost to Dean Foods of route returns dumps production losses and other forms of shrink.
Secondly fluid milk category volumes remained soft although consistent with the fourth quarter of 2013.
However as prices continue to rise we experienced additional softness in our volumes during March and April.
Based on another rise in May's Class I price we would expect this additional volume softness to persist into Q2.
Continued transitory cost in production and distribution associated with our plant closures and loss of volumes is the third item.
The fourth we estimate that during the quarter we had a negative impact associated with winter weather disruptions of approximately $4 million or $0.03 of diluted earnings per share.
This impact came in the form of lost school milk volumes and incremental costs.
To address the non-weather-related issues and begin to rebuild our profitability we will continue to focus on 3 business fundamentals: accelerated cost reduction price realization to pass-through input cost inflation and volume performance.
While we have a long way to go I'm cautiously optimistic that the trajectory of our business in the second half of the year is upward and that we are on a path for continued progress as we move through the balance of the year.
During the quarter we also managed our working capital diligently in the face of continued rise in raw milk costs.
As a result we were able to drive improved performance in our cash conversion cycle on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
Despite a 12% sequential quarterly rise in the Class I raw milk price our invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable were flat at $510 million.
Year-over-year we achieved an improvement of $108 million against the 22% rise in Class I raw milk prices.
Finally during the quarter we repurchased $25 million of our common stock or approximately 1.7 million shares at an average purchase price of $14.45.
The partial loss of our private label business with a significant customer combined with a general category weakness resulted in total volumes of 685 million gallons in the first quarter of 2014.
This represents a 5.9% decline from 727 million gallons in the first quarter of 2013.
While we had not yet began to lap the RFP-related volume losses in the first quarter our volume growth improved sequentially due to realization of previously discussed new volume wins.
Within fluid milk specifically industry category volumes declined approximately 2.1% for the quarter on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods.
On this same unadjusted basis our fluid milk volumes declined 6.7%.
This quarter's volumes continue to reflect the full negative impact of the RFP-driven volume loss but the recent wins we discussed on our last call are continuing to materialize in our volumes and share performance.
Excluding the impact of the RFP and another customer's decision to vertically integrate last year our fluid milk volumes increased 1.1% in the quarter significantly better than the overall category and an improvement from last quarter's comparable 0.6% decline.
Year-over-year weakness in the large format channel continued to be partially offset by strength in the small format channel where we experienced an approximate 7.6% increase versus the prior year.
This quarter also marks the 11th consecutive quarter of growth for Dean Foods in the expanding dollar channel.
Overall we continue to expect our unadjusted volumes to underperform the broader industry through the first half of 2014 due to the ongoing year-over-year impact of the lost private label RFP business in the second and third quarters of 2013.
Our share of the fluid milk category was 35.9% in the first quarter.
This represents 0.1% increase from the prior quarter as we continue to benefit from the new volume wins and continued strength beyond large format channels.
Since bottoming out in the third quarter of 2013 we have increased our share of fluid milk category by 1%.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix we ended the quarter at approximately 36.4% branded which was down about 0.5% versus the prior quarter.
Dean's share of branded white milk at retail has increased for 4 consecutive quarters and we are approximately 130 basis points better than the prior year.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of TruMoo brand and are very excited about its potential for continued line extensions.
We are seeing positive consumer and retailer response from our seasonal promotions and flavors.
During the month of February TruMoo Chocolate Marshmallow in conjunction with our Try it Hot promotion drove 22% incremental volume as measured by IRI.
Our plan is to continue delighting our consumers with limited time offers during peak selling seasons.
We are also focused on growing our national distribution beyond our DSD footprint by leveraging extended shelf life products.
In January a large retailer authorized TruMoo ESL in 1 000 new stores.
In the grocery channel year-to-date ending March 31 TruMoo distribution is 10 points above the prior year and 15 points above our branded white milk distribution.
This is clear evidence that TruMoo continues to win with our consumers and retail customers alike.
We are also pleased with the results of our regional launch of the TruMoo Protein and plan to expand distribution nationally later this year.
Turning to pricing.
As Class I raw milk prices continue to move higher the margin over milk or the spread between the Class I mover and the retail price of private label gallons has compressed to approximately $1.43 per gallon in Q1 compared to $1.50 per gallon in the previous quarter and $1.58 per gallon in Q1 of 2013.
Although we are near the lows of late 2010 we would expect that as raw milk prices moderate the margin over milk would move back toward the post 2010 historical mean of $1.50 to $1.60 as we expect retailers will restore greater profitability in the dairy case.
Average price gaps between our brands and private label in Q1 were consistent with Q4 but slightly below year-ago levels.
Since August of 2013 Class I raw milk prices have continued to increase every month ending the quarter at $23.64 per hundredweight an all-time high.
On average the first quarter Class I price was 12% higher than the fourth quarter and 22% above year-ago levels.
On a comparable March 2013 to March 2014 basis the Class I raw milk price is 33% higher.
As of May 1 the Class I price has increased an additional 4% from March to another all-time high of $24.47 per hundredweight which is 38% higher than year-ago period.
Obviously these price levels both in absolute terms and persistency from unprecedented in our history.
Beginning February we have had 4 consecutive months of all-time high Class I milk prices and May's increase represents the ninth consecutive month of higher raw milk prices.
I'll come back to this topic in my closing remarks to give you a better sense for our balance of year expectations around raw milk prices.
A major cornerstone of our efficiency efforts in 2013 and '14 includes the planned closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network or 8 to 12 plants by mid-2014.
As part of this initiative we've closed 8 facilities since we began ramping up activities late in 2012 and have announced an additional 3 closures in 2014 including 2 announced in April.
We have strong momentum behind these initiatives and expect increased savings from plant closures into 2014 to help offset the volume [Audio Gap] associated with the lost business in 2013 and the current record high dairy commodity environment.
However as we have previously stated with the full impact of the RFP volume declines and the associated accelerated plant closure activity in the back half of last year production cost declines lagged the decline in volumes resulting in higher per unit costs in the first quarter and lower overall gross profit.
First quarter distribution costs were flat on a year-over-year basis which was behind the rate of volume decline in the quarter leading to a temporary increase in per unit distribution cost.
As we have stated in the past while closing manufacturing facilities drives production efficiencies these are partially offset by increased miles driven as products are shipped back into the area surrounding the closed facilities.
We believe the increased per unit production and distribution costs are temporary and that costs will come in line with the volumes as we move past this recent period of accelerated plant closure activity.
Helping to offset this increased cost was a $12 million reduction in SG&amp;A costs in the first quarter from the year-ago period.
As a result of the record-high raw milk prices unusually severe weather the full impact of the RFP volume loss and the associated transitory costs we reported a $67 million year-over-year decrease in operating income.
Operating income totaled $7 million for the quarter versus last year's $74 million.
As we look ahead in Q2 we continue to see difficult overlaps but expect performance to improve as we reach the anniversary of the RFP-driven volume loss and realize a greater benefit from our cost initiatives.
However we remain concerned about fluid milk category volume weakness and the continued pressures historic high-raw-milk costs are putting on our gross margins.
That being said we continue taking the necessary actions to reduce our cost structure and better position the business to succeed despite the challenging marketplace.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the income statement.
As Gregg noted total volumes declined 5.9% in the quarter.
Although we are making progress in our cost reduction initiatives the transition of these volumes out of our network outpaced the impact of our efforts and resulted in fixed cost deleverage within the quarter.
This combined with the margin pressures resulting from record-setting Class I milk prices drove a Q1 year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of $80 million or 16%.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses declined $12 million from the year-ago period.
In distribution lower volumes and continued cost productivity reduced expenses $1 million versus the prior year which lagged our first quarter volume decline of 5.9%.
However as Gregg mentioned earlier while facility closings drive production efficiencies they are partially offset by increased miles driven as products are shipped back into the areas surrounding the closed facilities.
SG&amp;A cost declined $12 million resulting in an operating income decline of $67 million to $7 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter was $46 million a 60% decline versus the prior year's $116 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense decreased $12 million from the year-ago period.
This decrease is a result of significantly lower debt levels and benefits from our successful late 2013 repurchase of a portion of our higher coupon senior notes.
This in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded a Q1 adjusted net loss of $5 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of negative $0.05.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
As of the end of the first quarter total net debt outstanding was $906 million up from the $881 million at the end of Q4.
This increase was primarily related to a $15 million tax payment associated with the Morningstar divestiture and $25 million in share repurchase.
On an all-cash netted basis our Q1 leverage ratio was 2.75x net debt to EBITDA.
As we move through Q2 we would expect to hit our peak leverage and then move toward our stated objective of maintaining an average leverage ratio below 2.5x net funded debt to EBITDA.
Year-to-date net cash flow from continuing operations was $33 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $28 million resulting in free cash flow from continuing operations of $5 million.
On an adjusted basis which excludes the Morningstar tax payment and the receipt of a $9 million tax reimbursement from our former subsidiary WhiteWave Q1 adjusted free cash flow was $11 million.
Overall we performed above our going-in expectations as we were able to drive improved performance in our cash conversion cycle on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
As Gregg noted despite a 12% sequential rise in the Class I raw milk price our invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was flat at $510 million.
And year-over-year we achieved an improvement of $108 million against a 22% rise in Class I milk prices.
Finally effective January 1 2014 we de-designated all open commodity derivative positions that were previously designated as cash flow hedges.
During the first quarter of 2014 we reclassified $200 000 net of tax of hedging activity related to these commodity contracts from accumulated other comprehensive income into operating income.
As of the de-designation date all commodities contracts are now marked to market in our income statement at each reporting period and a derivative asset or liability is recorded on our balance sheet.
Therefore going forward our GAAP versus adjusted earnings will net out the changes in fair value of our commodity derivatives.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on our balance of the year outlook before opening the call to your questions.
Gregg? Thank you Chris.
During our fourth quarter 2013 conference call I noted the following items would drive our 2014 earnings progression: first a more challenging dairy commodity outlook; secondly fluid milk category softness; third shrink costs; and fourth overlapping of RFP-driven volume loss.
First as we previously indicated the consensus view of the dairy commodity outlook for 2014 appeared to be significantly more challenging than expected as current dairy commodity prices had moved near or beyond all-time highs despite strong global production growth.
Since our fourth quarter call domestic raw milk prices continue to be meaningfully impacted by global developments with May's Class I raw milk price of $24.47 being 38% above the prior year and well ahead of our prior expectations for May.
Although global dairy prices are moving lower as evidenced by recent global dairy trade auctions volatility remains as evidenced by the recent auction in the cheese markets.
Exceptionally strong demand for U.S.
cheese both domestic and international coupled with milk production issues in a few important cheese producing states caused fresh cheese prices at the CME to reach all-time record highs in late March lending support to the all-time high Class I raw milk price announced for May.
Weak cheese production a 37% year-over-year increase in March U.S.
cheese exports and depressed cheese stocks continue to provide price support to this market.
However since this all-time high the spot cheddar markets have moderated 14% to 16% with the exception of -- with the expectation of additional declines.
Beyond cheese all major U.S.
dairy product export volumes have continued to experience meaningful year-to-date increases with total dairy exports up 23% compared to a year ago.
In March exports volume across nonfat dry milk butter and cheese were up 31% 79% and 37% respectively.
We also said on our last call that we believe that in order for domestic raw milk prices to experience a noticeable decline in the second half of 2014 there will need to be a significant supply response from both the U.S.
and the European Union.
To date global supplies appear to be meeting those expectations.
European output is up 4% to 5% versus the prior year.
And it appears as though the way is being paved for 2% to 3% full year production growth which will be the biggest advance in at least 5 years.
New Zealand's production has also been relatively strong with full season production which ends in May expected to increase 5% to 7% against last year's weak comps.
Production in the U.S.
continues to grow at a slow rate largely as a result of harsh winter weather conditions in the Midwest and Northeast through March.
U.S.
milk production increased approximately 1%.
However sequential production improvements are being forecasted by the USDA.
Overall U.S.
milk production is expected to increase 4.9 billion pounds or 2.4% in 2014 which is a slight increase from the prior USDA forecast of 2.1%.
Based on current Class I raw milk forecasts we anticipate the second quarter of 2014 will be the highest quarterly average on record exceeding the first quarter's average of $22.38 by approximately 6%.
The result of this continued upward movement in raw milk prices has increasingly moved us into uncharted territory with respect to price elasticity within the fluid milk category.
As I previously mentioned we continue to work to pass through the increasing raw milk costs to our customers.
However in doing so volume softness has begun to manifest itself in both March and April.
We would expect to see that continue through Q2 given current raw milk price levels.
While we remain watchful of global supply and demand dynamics as we look ahead assuming normal weather patterns we continue to believe solid global supply growth will lead to moderating raw milk prices in the second half of 2014.
These historically high raw milk prices continue to be an undeniable headwind for our business.
Second the fluid milk category continued to show weakness with industry volumes down 2.1% in Q1.
We continue to keep a watchful eye on the impacts associated with the higher dairy commodity prices and the late 2013 reduction in SNAP benefits.
We are hopeful that our recent new volume wins and increasing share gains will partially offset the asset deleverage that soft category volumes create.
However soft volumes coupled with historic raw milk inflation and price gap and threshold pricing decisions can negate some of the impact of our cost reduction efforts and make it harder to take those savings to the bottom line.
Finally as raw milk costs rise so does our cost to shrink.
To help offset a portion of this cost we have recently implemented a per gallon price increase to our customers.
Even so at current forecast dairy commodity levels we expect shrink costs to continue to be a headwind for us in 2014.
As you can tell from my commentary we expect Q2 to be particularly difficult given the unprecedented level of raw milk costs continued overlaps of the RFP-driven volume loss and category declines that may be worse than recent run rates given our current price elasticity concerns.
However as we lap the most difficult challenges of our cost reduction efforts continue to take hold we expect results to strengthen in the back half and exceed 2013 performance in third and fourth quarters.
Taking all of these factors into account and looking ahead to the balance of the year many challenges remain and thus our forward guidance will reflect a cautious tone.
All told we expect a second quarter adjusted diluted loss per share of $0.02 to $0.08.
Based on our performance in the first quarter as well as our expectations for the second we are lowering our full year guidance to at least $0.60.
This full year guidance is predicated on a moderation of Class I prices beginning in June with an end of the year assumption of $20 to $21 per hundredweight.
Beyond the Class I milk assumptions there are a number of additional interdependencies embedded in our full year guidance as we begin to decline from historic raw milk cost levels.
Key interdependencies would include a return to the mean around a number of factors including: the elasticity of the category and a reinflation of the margin over milk allowing for the maintenance of appropriate price gaps between private labels and brands.
We remain comfortable with our prior adjusted free cash flow guidance of at least $125 million with our full year capital expenditure forecast unchanged at $150 million to $175 million.
In summary we believe the market environment continues to be a difficult one with several factors continuing to impact our earnings progression particularly over the first half of 2014.
However later in the year we expect earnings to improve as we -- as the overlaps become less difficult and the full benefit of our cost reduction efforts take hold.
We are currently operating in a very difficult environment.
However we remain confident the right steps are being taken to build a strong foundation for future success.
Before I turn the call over to the operator I want to acknowledge a couple of recent awards.
First Dean Foods was recognized with the 2014 Best of Sustainable Supply award in the category of Animal Health and Wellness (sic) [Welfare] by the McDonald's Corporation.
We were 1 of 4 company's granted this award globally.
Second we received the Dairy Category Supplier of the Year Award from Target Corporation.
Both of these awards reaffirm our commitment to quality safety and service.
And the aforementioned awards are not possible without our great employees.
Therefore I want to thank them for their hard work focus and dedication.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Amit Sharma from BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg I'm sorry I jumped on the call a little bit late so forgive me if you have answered this already.
When we look at the milk price environment and the moderation coming back in the back half what sort of impact -- or in what ways will it impact Dean's operating performance in the back half? And then I have a follow-up.
Well I mean I think in general it starts to put us back in historical places that would get us back from a cost perspective back more in line with where we should be.
So I think we'll see the -- overall as it comes down in that $20 to $21 range it allows us then to get back to where we've been in areas where we've seen.
Like I said this $24.47 is uncharted for us.
We have no -- we've never seen it work in this manner.
So you may -- you've heard us talk about at $24 certainly and even at levels below that.
We think we're kind of faced with 2 awfully equally unpleasant choices.
One is to pass through that high milk cost of $24 and run the risk of destroying demand.
The other is to not pass it through and sort of try to maintain historic price levels that we have and destroy margin.
And neither one of those options is particularly palatable.
So to your question if the milk curve in the back half of the year follows our forecast comes down we would expect relief on that dynamic.
And that will be either the margin or the volume.
And the guidance of at least $0.60 for the full year that implies a pretty substantial recovery in the back half.
We have seen at least in the first and second quarter milk prices overwhelm some of estimates and expectations that we had.
How much comfort do we have about the back half guidance at this point? We're cautious obviously.
I mean we believe that we've got a plan that delivers that.
But we've tried to project these milk costs over the last 9 months and it's been difficult.
We and other industry experts have really struggled to be able to forecast over the past like Gregg said 6 9 12 months.
Sure.
And one more on the volume side.
I mean clearly you guys are doing very well in terms of gaining some of the share back that you lost last year.
And the other thing that you're seeing a lot more visibility on TV and other avenues Milk Board spending a lot of money.
Kellogg talked about spending a little bit more money in promoting milk.
What's your outlook on milk volume for the overall category and your ability to continue to take share here? Well we believe we'll continue to take share.
As far as the work that MilkPEP is doing with Milk Life we're obviously highly engaged in that process with MilkPEP and feel very confident in the new program that they're rolling out with.
So I think that's going to help the category in general.
But I think the second quarter is going to continue to be tough for the category.
I think we're going to see -- it was down 2.1% in the first quarter.
I think it's going to be more than that in the second quarter just because of the higher prices.
And then I think you'll see it start to come back in the third and fourth quarters.
Yes.
We might have thought that the 2.1% in the first quarter category decline was in some respects a little bit of a bright spot and a silver lining because you had the very difficult weather that we talked about that likely took some wind out of the sails of the category.
And you had recall you had 3 full months of reduction in SNAP benefits not the 2 months that you had in the fourth quarter when we also logged a 2.1% category decline.
So going into the quarter I might have thought that the category will be down even more in the first quarter than it was.
Now to Gregg's point then you have sequentially higher prices in the second quarter.
So do we see continued softness? That would stand to reason.
In the back half we should see better trends as milk prices come down and some of these promotional activities also take some impact on consumption.
Correct.
Yes.
That's our expectation as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So first question.
I mean your results are obviously being negatively impacted it seems like from a number of factors that are out of your control to a large extent.
I would call out the 2 main ones obviously milk prices and the other being category weakness.
So I know you baked in to the best of your ability projections for milk prices.
But what if -- can you give us a sense of what the back half would look like if milk prices stayed where they are today and also if category volumes remained as weak as they are today? What's the downside to your earnings outlook if those 2 situations come to be true? Yes.
Akshay the piece I would take you back to in the prepared remarks the part of Gregg's script where he talked about uncharted waters.
I think it's difficult for us right now to wrap our minds completely around what that downside scenario looks.
Because unfortunately there's just not a good data set to pull from.
We're really making up the data that suggests how the category performs and how the Dean Foods business performs at $24 a hundredweight milk as we go.
So that's why you've heard that cautious tone that's why we set guidance of at least $0.60 assuming a number of things take place largely the initial catalyst being the reduction in milk cost in the back half of the year.
To the extent that doesn't happen and then other things don't follow on from that continuing to provide the range around the downside below $0.60 is a challenge for us.
Research Division</strong> And so that same challenge obviously applies to us.
But can you give us a sense of just roughly how much of the underperformance let's say this quarter was related to milk prices.
The amount would be tough for me to tease out actually with everything else going on.
And there -- it would be tough for me to say.
So if -- in hypothetical if milk had been $22 not $24 or $20 what would our EPS have been? That would be a tough piece of math to do.
Research Division</strong> So just roughly I mean I guess the way you're thinking about milk prices is if milk prices return to historical levels I don't know what that level is but maybe let's call it $17 $18 a hundredweight over the next year or 2 your general sense is that your EBIT per gallon should return to more historical levels of $0.07 $0.08 $0.09 right? Is that a good way to think about it? Yes absolutely.
That's -- so if you go back to where I started.
If we are back in charted waters if we're back in kind of a $17 $18 range we think our historical models apply.
We have good data sets to go on.
And we think nothing has changed in the fundamental P&amp;L algorithm of the Dean Foods business that would change that operating income per gallon performance.
The difficulty is where we are today at the historic highs predicting that.
And in some respects that transitional period.
So from $24 back to $18 which we think will be the back half as we move from $24 to possibly $20 in the back half of this year that's where the difficulty in putting a particularly fine estimate on the outcome is hard for us.
So Akshay the thing we run into here is not -- as Chris said it's uncharted waters.
But the elasticity of the pricing and volume correlation is almost impossible for us to try to get our arms around right now just because we have no data.
So to say if it wasn't at $24 would we take more pricing and what would be the volume destruction that we would see from that? And we just don't know those numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So let me go to the side of the business that you do control right? Obviously there's -- in my estimation the biggest cost bucket that you can attack and which you're in early stages are the distribution costs.
So can you give us a sense of what are the distribution costs per gallon? What's the long-term sort of trajectory that you can get to on those? And then why not -- there's been other companies that are in tough categories that have done sort of accelerated cost reduction programs et cetera.
So why -- is there a possibility of that happening at Dean Foods? And if not why? Yes.
Well I mean you look at our -- you look at the work that we currently have underway in the logistics organization and I believe we're making great progress.
We are a bit behind the curve as far as the volume decline and being able to take out cost at that rate yet.
But we think that as we go through the rest of this year that our logistics costs will definitely come out at a rate faster than the volume has declined.
So I'm very confident in the work that Tony Brooks and his team are doing in the logistics side to take those costs out.
I think the same goes on the plant side.
So both of those are in my opinion in relatively good shape.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just on obviously a pretty tough environment from a high milk-price perspective.
I'm just curious to hear your perspective and in terms of what you're seeing with how retailers are dealing with this the category and the elevated milk prices.
Both from the effort that you have to obviously stick to the pass-through for the milk cost as well as I think you've said you try to take pricing on -- to offset some of the shrink cost increases.
So just wanted to see what the reactions that's been from the retailers.
And then related -- I guess somewhat related to that you've seen some consolidation among some of your key customers Safeway and Albertsons for example.
Just wondering what the implication there is.
Is that an opportunity as potentially to get more business? Or are they looking to other avenues of sourcing? Okay.
Well let me start with the customers and where they're at.
We talked about it in our prepared remarks where the margin over milk is coming down.
So I think the retailer today is absorbing some of the cost increases that are coming across as you can see in the $1.43 from $1.50.
And we've seen that Judy as we've seen through April as well we're down in $1.39 range currently.
So I think we're going to continue to see them absorb that until the prices start to fall.
And then my opinion is and I -- in discussions with other retailers is you'll see that margin over milk start to come back to more historical levels of $1.50 to $1.60 range.
So I think they understand the environment today.
Everybody is really price sensitive in the market because we know that there are certain price thresholds that we can't cross or it starts to -- start to impact the demand more so than others.
So I think the retailers are responding well.
And yes they clearly know that we're all kind of in this together as far as the high milk prices.
On the Safeway Albertsons I can't speculate what that may mean.
It's obviously going to consolidate on the retailer side.
And I think -- every change out there I think provides us an opportunity.
I just don't know what that opportunity looks like as I sit here today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just follow-up on your comment about the retailers.
So they're absorbing some of the cost pressure right now.
If in the back half you do see milk prices moderating is there a risk that they try to recoup some of the margins that they lost in the back half and push the manufacturers to some extent for some of that margin give-back? Or you think that the relationship is pretty rational right now? It feels rational Judy.
I think it's one where I don't know that they'll put any more pressure on the manufacturers than what they put on today.
I mean it is an extremely competitive environment and that pressure will continue.
But I think on the -- I think where we'll see it is is they probably will recoup it more on the pricing side within their stores.
So they'll probably hold prices as it comes down.
So it may not help us on the volume front as much as it may help them on the margin front.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess let's switch -- quick question given the Q on the balance sheet cash flow and use of that.
I guess I was initially concerned that the board had not implemented a dividend that was high enough.
But given what's going on in the market it seems like the board was correct in giving a relatively modest dividend.
But where -- at the same time you had announced a pretty big share repurchase program.
Are you kind of inclined to hold back on that given what's going on in the market? Or do you still feel comfortable enough in that $125 million of free cash flow that aggressive repo is likely to continue? I think there's 2 things there Eric.
One is I think from a -- we'll continue to be opportunistic in our purchases.
I think we can continue to create shareholder value at certain levels.
I think I would also tell you that our long-term target is to be at 2.5x net debt to EBITDA.
And we're currently above that so we'll watch ourselves as we go through this process.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gregg in this higher milk price environment what are you seeing in terms of the financial stress on your smaller competitors? Have you seen much of an uptick in those competitors closing their doors at all? John no.
I can't -- I mean I can't speculate on what the impact is on them.
I got to believe it's tough.
I mean it's tough on us.
It's tough on everybody.
But I don't -- I can't speculate on where it's at.
LLC Research Division</strong> But you haven't really seen any reports of an acceleration of people exiting at all at this point? No no.
I mean we keep our eyes and ears out.
But no we haven't really seen anything.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of a follow-up.
In these price increases you put through have you seen your competitors also putting through surcharges as well from some of these shrink costs? I haven't heard so I don't know.
I know -- we've put it out there.
We believe that it's effective for us.
I haven't heard whether or not they did or didn't.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Really just to follow up to Akshay's question about the distribution costs.
I didn't feel like you gave us much in a way of details as to what steps Tony is taking to optimize the cost structure of distribution.
And I was hoping since this is such an important issue for the company that we could get kind of a little more color on how you're looking at it.
And maybe also do you -- have your cost per gallon gone up a lot over the last 4 years? Because I remember at your Analyst Day in 2009 that this was a big issue then.
You felt like your costs were too high then.
And I imagine with all the volume coming out of the system have the costs gone higher since then? Yes.
The costs are up a bit over the last 5 years 4 to 5 years.
A lot of that due to just consolidation and volume deleverage of the system.
To give you a little bit more color on the logistics side of it as far as the things that we're doing: the big thing is around driving all of the appropriate performance indicators.
So we bring in a logistics professional in to get us focused more on the logistics side around what are the right key performance indicators the same thing we did on the supply chain side and the operations side.
And they're in the midst of rolling that scorecard out as we speak today.
But the key cost drivers beyond just driving productivity through their KPIs is really coming out of 2 fronts.
One is what I would characterize as load factors.
So how do we make sure that when our trucks are going out that their load factors are at the levels that we would expect them to be at.
So that means that they're redoing routes they're rerouting and optimizing our routes to try to get the load factors to a much more acceptable level.
The second thing is putting a lot of our third-party freight out for bid.
We had not put our third-party freight out for bid in our history that I'm aware of.
So we have put our freight out for bid consolidated all of our third-party freight put it together into a bid and put that bid out earlier this year and should be finalizing some of those over the next couple of months.
Research Division</strong> Gregg what about just the number of DSD routes? Like does that -- does the number of routes come down? They're coming down.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Coming down? They come down.
As you start looking at your load factors and you try to get your load factors up the number of routes will start to fall.
Yes I mean we're taking assets off the street.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you foresee a restructuring program that would have to pay for all of that in terms of severance and everything? Or is it too soon to talk about that? No I don't think it's going to be a -- it's not going to be a big bang like that.
I think it's going to be one that we'll continue to just take them out as the routes come out because we're also -- we'll also be looking at branch consolidations along the way.
So I don't think there's going to be any big restructuring.
Chris do you...
Absolutely.
And I don't see anything anyway.
Your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> When you look at volumes looking into the second quarter and going into the rest of the year how do you think about Dean Foods volumes for the quarter and the year? Well I mean if I look at -- as we've said in our prepared remarks I think the second quarter is going to be tough volume-wise.
I think we will continue as we did in the first quarter to continue to take share.
I think we'll continue to get as much as we can from a volume perspective out of the RFPs that are currently out there.
And then full year low single digits would be my guess.
Research Division</strong> So second quarter decline similar to what we saw the first quarter and then low single digits for the year? Yes.
I would even say second quarter may be a touch worse than the first.
I mean just because we're up at $24 a hundredweight.
So a low single-digit decline for the full year.
And keep in mind Farha as we get in the second quarter we do have the tailwind that we begin to overlap the Walmart loss from last year.
So it's sort of 2 different counterbalancing factors where we're worried about the health of the category as prices climb to all-time highs and we're worried about our own volume within the category as we try to strike the right balance on that price-volume equation.
But then on the counter side of that in the second quarter in the third quarter we start to get the benefit from lapping last year's volume loss.
But all that netted together takes us to our expectation that the full year will be low single-digit decline.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And if we go to the full year -- or sorry pricing has -- you're right now bidding for milk business for next year that school milk business are you bidding for it any differently because it is fixed price and you have seen such volatility this year? And just an overall question about pricing going forward.
Are you changing your pricing contracts and the methodology to be more flexible more real time not just this sort of onetime surcharge for shrink? Well I'll talk to the first part of that as far as the school milk bids and the RFPs that are currently out there.
Obviously in this environment we're working those contracts much more than probably we have in years' past.
And so far this year we have been fairly successful with our school bids and we'll know more of that as -- because it's still early on in the school bid season.
But we feel confident that our school bids are going well.
And then I'll let Chris talk more to the mechanics of our pricing and whether he sees any changes coming with that.
Yes.
So far also just before we leave the school topic.
Just to clarify we actually believe that -- well we know it's our data that a fairly small portion of our total school business is on a fixed bid program.
Most schools actually follow kind of the same methodology of allowing us to flex our price up and down to follow the milk commodity.
It's a fairly small slice of that business that actually likes to be on a fixed bid.
So -- and then -- and on to the price mechanics piece.
We still do feel very good about our overall.
When milk prices are kind of in their historic range if you call that a $15 to $20 band we think our mechanics of pass-through work pretty well.
At the $24 hundredweight level the notion that perhaps a surcharge was the right piece for us to move toward if that means that we need to reconsider the mechanics when milks -- when milk moves back to its historic levels I don't see that.
Probably I think I lean back on the notion that our pricing methodology has always served Dean Foods pretty well.
And as we move back to normal levels that will continue.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up.
Do you think normal is now $15 to $20? Because exports are now a much more significant part of the U.S.
milk pie and can vary much more than just sort of U.S.
consumption which is much more stable? And given this new variance of demand which is largely dependent on weather in New Zealand and Australia that volatility in milk should be expected much more going forward.
And so those pricing contracts which assume normal might not be right going forward.
Yes.
So to put maybe a slightly finer point on it I would have said that historically the mean was kind of more in that $15 range so to the low end of the band that I just described.
I do believe that the new mean going forward is probably more like $18.
Now those are point estimates.
But I do believe that the mean has moved higher as the U.S.
markets have become more exposed to global dairy commodity movements.
Will volatility also be higher? Perhaps.
And that then gets to the root of your question if we do see spikes in the future back above $20 even up into the mid-20s do you handle that via a surcharge? Or do you handle that via a change to the price mechanics? I think that's something for us to consider.
We have time for only one more question and that comes from the line of Brett Hundley from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So Gregg just want to go back to a comment that you made on retailers potentially holding pricing as raw milk comes down in an effort to recapture some margin.
Does that make you more optimistic on maybe margins hanging in there better than you would have originally anticipated in any type of deflationary market? In other words that as raw milk prices come down the pass-through may not be as great as it traditionally would.
Does that make sense? Yes.
I mean I think what you'll see is is we'll see it hopefully in the volume side versus the margin side for us.
That if they maintain and take their prices down we would see it on the volume front.
If they maintain their prices and put the margin in their pocket I think we'll get hurt a bit on the volume side.
Does that make sense Brett? Research Division</strong> That makes sense that makes sense.
It's a complicated set of factors.
Because if they maintain private label and don't take the prices down consistent with the decline in Class I cost that actually could help our branded products.
So if they were to dramatically reduce their private label cost then you have an expanding gap to our brands.
So there is no one -- kind of what we've been trying to communicate both in the prepared text this morning and in our answers to your questions has been it's just complicated.
There isn't one simple answer because there are a number of factors and they are interdependent.
Research Division</strong> Totally makes sense.
The -- my second question just kind of goes to what Farha was asking Gregg.
Does it give you any comfort at all that cheese dynamics have kind of driven the mover price higher over the short term here as opposed to powder just given some of the demand differences historically between cheese and that of powder since maybe '07 '08 '09? Or you really remain cautious either way? No I think cheese gives me more comfort than the powder side because it's not as heavily impacted I think by some of the developing markets.
So yes I -- but either way you have to be cautious in this environment.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Gregg Tanner for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you again for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and we'll look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you sir.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to your Second Quarter 2014 Dean Foods Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and Ill be your operator for today.
Throughout the conference you will remain on listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) And now I like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Tim Smith Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which corresponds with today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other non-recurring items including the 2013 spin-off and disposition of our remaining investment in WhiteWave common stock the Morningstar divestiture and other early retirement of debt.
We also would like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings network optimization plans dairy commodity pricing the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning these risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in todays prepared section of the call are myself Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
I will start this off with a review of our second quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back over to me for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that let me get started with the second quarter 2014 highlights.
I also want to thank you all for joining us on the call today.
Tim had to step away and so thats why I jumped in and took this over.
So this morning we reported second quarter results that were below our previously articulated guidance range of $0.02 to $0.08 adjusted diluted loss per share.
For the quarter we reported a net loss of $0.14 in adjusted diluted loss per share and an adjusted operating loss of $6 million both were down considerably from year-ago results.
When we spoke to you in May we indicated that we expected the second quarter to be especially difficult and it was more challenging than even we had anticipated.
Increasing and record high dairy commodity costs have continued to create a very challenging operating environment.
In 2014 year-to-date results have been well short of our expectations.
This is by far the most difficult operating environment in the history of the company reinforcing the importance of the initiatives that we have underway.
We believe these efforts are ultimately positioning us for a much better future.
Key challenges during the quarter were as follows: First the fluid milk category volumes remained soft and infact volume declines have accelerated beyond what we would consider the normal trajectory of the category.
As Class I raw milk continue to rise through May the category continued to weaken.
ROI data suggest that year-over-year refrigerated fluid milk in the multi outlet or MULO in convenient store channels were down 4.1% 4.8% and 4.7% respectively for April May and June.
This represents further deterioration in the category compared to Q1s comparable decline of 2.8%.
USDA reported 4.5% and 3.5% declines in April and May.
Actual category performance quarter to date through May indicates a category decline of 4% which is well above the prior quarters 1.5% decline.
As our volumes soften further than we expected we experienced increased volume to leverage across our network.
We are also concerned about the health of the ready-to-eat cereal category and its impact on fluid milk.
Within MULO total cereal volumes in Q2 were down 5% versus year ago levels which compares to last quarters year-over-year decline of 3%.
Second very high milk cost and resulting increases in retail prices created incremental volume softness in addition to increased pressure on our margins as pricing and retail was pressured by both price gap and price threshold considerations.
In addition higher raw milk cost raised the cost of Dean Foods of route returns dumps production losses and other forms of shrink.
On a year-over-year basis our total shrink cost increased more than 30% in Q2 and north of 25% year-to-date.
Third during the second quarter and continuing into the third we have been challenged by the rapid and unexpected increase of butterfat prices which pressures our margin across our Class II product offerings including ice cream in its heavy selling season.
Average Q2 CME butter prices increased 32% versus prior year levels to $2.12 with June averaging $2.26 per pound.
After the end of the quarter CME butter prices continued to rise and hit a peak of $2.62 per pound in late July which represents an input price we havent seen since 1998 when CME butter hit $2.81 per pound.
The same month-over-month Class II commodity increases as we experienced in the quarter can create a pricing lag effect that make it difficult to effectively pass through rising costs fast enough to mitigate the sustained inflation across our Class II product set.
Finally as expected we experience continued transitory cost in production and distribution associated with plant closures and loss of volumes.
However as fluid milk volumes softness accelerated our logistics and plant as such have experienced increased deleverage offsetting some of their end year cost productivity improvements.
While disappointed in our results during this difficult environment we continue to be focused on driving improvements in our operations and in the business that will make us stronger long term.
Total volumes in the second quarter were 674 million gallons which represents a 4% decline from 703 million gallons in the second quarter of 2013.
This decline was due to the partial loss of private label business with a significant customer combined with the increasing fluid milk category weakness.
In Q2 we began to lap the RFP-related volume losses.
Last year in Q2 approximately 80% of the RFP driven net store transitions occurred.
Within fluid milk specifically industry category volumes declined approximately 4% quarter to date through May on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods On this same unadjusted basis our fluid milk volumes declined 4%.
This quarters volumes continued to reflect a negative impact of the RFP driven volume loss however as I stated earlier we are beginning to overlap last years RFP volume loss excluding the impact of the RFP and another customers decision to vertically integrate last year our fluid milk volumes decreased 0.3% in the quarter significantly better than the overall categories volume decline.
During the quarter year-over-year weakness in the large format channel continued to be partially offset by strength in the small format channel where we experienced an approximate 2% increase versus the prior year.
However sequentially we experienced weakness across all channels with the exception of a slight increase in fluid service.
Our share as a fluid milk category for the quarter to date ending in May was 35.9% which represents a 0.2% increase from the prior quarter.
Since bottoming out in the third quarter of 2013 we have increased our share of the fluid milk category by 1%.
We are becoming increasingly focused on improving our margins with better pricing that will deliver an appropriate return.
In terms of our branded versus private-label white milk mix we ended the quarter just under 36% branded.
However since the third quarter of 2013 when raw milk prices began their steady climb our brand mix has declined by approximately 1%.
This traded down the private-label white milk represents an undeniable headwind to our P&amp;L.
Deans share of branded white milk at retail is approximately 60 basis points better than the prior year.
However sequentially our share declined by approximately 30 basis points.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of the two new brands and are very excited about its potential for continued line extensions.
During the quarter within the grocery channel TruMoo performed inline with the flavored milk category which was down 6%.
However in the convenient store channel we experienced a 9% increase versus prior year against a flat flavored milk category and were able to increase our share by approximately 2%.
We continue to focus on growing our national distribution beyond our DSD footprint by leveraging extended shelf like products as a result of leveraging this capability TruMoo reached an all times high ACV eclipsing the 70% market in Q2.
This is 13 points higher than our branded White milk and approximately 8 points better than prior years ACV.
As we indicated on our last call we intend to launch TruMoo protein nationally in the second half of this year.
Although we are just starting that launch we already have significant authorizations for some of our largest accounts.
TruMoo protein is now the number one protein drink in the dairy case in our West operations which launched this product only one year ago.
Turning to pricing as Class I raw milk prices continue to move higher the margin over milk or the spread between Class I mover and the retail price of private label gallons compressed to approximately $1.39 per gallon in Q2 compared to a $1.43 per gallon in the previous quarter and $1.58 per gallon in Q2 of 2013.
During the quarter the margin over milk bottomed at approximately $1.35 at the end of May before rebounding in June to $1.44 after Junes Class I raw milk price declined.
We still expect that when raw milk prices moderate the margin over milk will move back towards the post 2010 historical mean of $1.50 to $1.60 as we expect retailers will restore greater profitability to the dairy case.
As noted we saw some indication of that behavior in June.
Average price gaps between our brands and private label in Q2 were consistent with Q1; however gaps extended approximately 10% versus prior year levels.
Class I raw milk prices continued their rise in Q2 before slight reprieve in June.
On average the second quarter Class I price was 6% higher than the first quarter and 31% above year-ago levels.
Unfortunately after a 6.5% decline in June the Class I price has resumed its upper trend increasing 4.5% since June to $23.87 in August.
August price represents the second highest Class I milk price on record and is 26% above a year ago levels.
Over the past year we have seen Class I raw milk prices increase 11% over the last 12 months.
Obviously these price levels both in tenure and absolute terms continue to be unprecedented in our history.
A major cornerstone of our efficiency efforts in 2013 and 2014 included the plant closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network or 8 to 12 plants by mid 2014.
As part of this initiative we have now closed 12 facilities since we began ramping up activities late in 2012 with four of these closures occurring in June and July of this year.
We have strong momentum behind these initiatives and expect increased savings from plant closures in 2014 to defer some of the volume develerage associated with the loss of business in 2013 as well as the current above trend fluid milk category weakness we are experiencing from the record high dairy commodity environment.
As we move beyond our accelerated cost agenda we expect to return to our normal optimization activities.
However as we have previously stated with the full impact of the RFP volume declines increased category weakness and the associated accelerated plant closure activities production cost declines continued to lag the decline in volumes resulting in higher per unit cost in the second quarter and lower overall gross profits.
Second quarter distribution costs were up slightly on a year-over-year basis while volumes declined leading to an increase in per unit distribution cost.
We believe the increased per unit production and distribution costs are temporary and that costs will come in line as we move past this recent period of accelerated plant closure activity and above trend fluid milk category weakness.
The logistics organization continues to focus on a number of initiatives to drive continued productivity to help offset inflation volume delevarage and increased miles driven resulting from plant closures.
In the first half of 2014 we executed an RFP for third-party freight services.
In doing so we improved our cost structure as well as reduced our third party providers by approximately 75%.
As part of this process we have also moved to a centralized management and execution of all third party freights via the lean logistics transportation management system or Lean TMS.
Over 80% of our third party freight dollars and over 90% of our freight lanes are now on Lean TMS.
We have also started testing intermodal transportation opportunities for ice cream and cultured products as potential long haul economic plays.
Both of these initiatives highlight the potential to leverage Deans national footprint to create a sustainable cost advantage.
In addition the logistics organization has spend several quarters identifying and developing key performance indicators and a tracking score card.
They now have in place KPIs around assets costs fleet and service metrics that will be vigorously tracked to drive continuous improvement across the function.
Helping to offset this slight increase in logistics cost was a $9 million reduction in SG&amp;A cost in the second quarter from the year ago period.
Excluding the advertising and incentive compensation SG&amp;A was $3 million below year ago levels.
As a result of the increased fluid milk category weakness mix shifts record high milk prices rising butterfat costs the impact of the RFP volume loss and associated transitory cost we reported $71 million year-over-year decrease in operating income.
Our operating loss totaled $6 million for the quarter versus last years $65 million in income.
Before I turn the call over to Chris I want to take a moment to update you on the extraordinarily challenging and unprecedented dairy commodity landscape.
Although prices continued to remain in their record levels it is our and industry experts belief that we are seeing meaningful signs that raw milk pricing may improve as we move into late 2014 and early 2015.
However to date pricing movements have been difficult to predict.
First the consensus view of the dairy commodity outlook for 2014 is to be significantly more challenging than previously expected.
As current dairy commodity prices have moved near or beyond all time highs despite strong global production growth.
During the first half for 2014 milk production across the top seven exporters which are the EU the U.S.
Brazil New Zealand Argentina Australia and Uruguay is estimated to have increased 4.9% versus prior year.
Of the top seven the EU the U.S.
Brazil and New Zealand regions make up 93% of this overall production.
Collectively this group experienced 5.2% milk production growth in the first half of 2014.
New Zealand Brazil and the EU experienced first half growth rates of 19% 12% and 5.1% respectively with the U.S.
lagging at 1.2%.
As we move into the back half of the year its expected that overall worldwide milk production growth will moderate to approximately 2%.
However milk production in the U.S.
is expected to increase to approximately 3% in the second half of 2014.
This is driven by favorable producer margins and production outpacing the modest improvements expected in local market demand as the impact of a slow economic recovery is compounded by recent retail price hikes.
Even if milk prices move off their highs projected lower grain prices could bring feed expenditures to a four year low thus continuing to support favorable U.S.
producer economics.
Second international dairy prices have declined dramatically since February.
International home milk powder skimmed milk powder butter and cheese prices have declined 46% 31% 41% and 24% respectively driven by four factors.
First as I previously mentioned production rose at unprecedented rates in export regions as producers responded to record or near record prices.
Second consumption growth in these export regions has been modest with consumers battling disappointing economies and significant price increases for dairy products as processors and retailers pass on rising ingredient cost.
Third slow domestic demand and a stronger than expected surge in milk production appears to have created a wave of product looking for a home on the world markets.
Fourth China bought more than expected in the first five months of this year however it now appears as though they brought more than they needed given the apparent stabilization of their domestic supply and slowing of local demand growth.
As we expected other import buyers who had been sidelined by the prolonged period of Chinese purchases re-entered the market to restock however their appetite appears to have ultimately been dampened by lower sales in many emerging markets and the depreciation of many of their currencies which ensured that prices would need to fall sharply to clear the market.
Nonetheless despite these price falls several export regions appeared to have above normal stock levels to work through.
Finally U.S.
exporters have been able to increase outgoing shipments by approximately 22% for the first six months of the year therefore strong exports have left little room for domestic stock building and so commercial inventories across cheese butter and powder have remained below year ago levels thus the U.S.
will enter the second half with low stock levels and unable to repeat the record stock drawn downs of the prior 12 months.
Given the current diverge interaction of dairy commodity prices between the U.S.
and the world markets however the U.S.
has now priced this advantage vis--vis the world markets which would put considerable pressure on second half export activities.
Any slowing of export activity would coincide with an expectation of increased second half U.S.
milk production.
This should allow for stock rebuilding and a higher likelihood of downward pressure on the prices.
While we remain watchful of global supply and demand dynamics as we look ahead assuming normal weather patterns we continue to be cautiously optimistic that solid global supply growth will lead to moderating raw milk prices in the later stages of 2014 and into 2015.
Unfortunately we and just about every other prognosticator have been too early in our call in predicting the timing of the break.
Until it does fall these unprecedented raw milk prices will continue to be an undeniable headwind for our business.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our financial results.
Chris?  Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as Gregg noted total volumes declined 4% in the quarter.
Although we are making progress in our cost reduction initiatives the transition of these volumes out of our network coupled with an above the trend weakening of the food milk category outpaced the impact of our efforts and resulted in fixed cost deleverage within the quarter.
This combined with the margin pressures resulting from rapidly increasing butterfat prices and record-setting Class I prices drove a Q2 year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of $75 million or 16%.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses declined $4 million from the year-ago period.
Distribution expense increased $4 million while SG&amp;A costs declined at $9 resulting in an operating income decline of $71 million to negative $6 million.
As Gregg previously mentioned excluding advertising and incentive compensation SG&amp;A costs were $3 million below year ago levels.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $34 million a 68% decline from $105 million in the prior year period.
Below the operating income line interest expense decreased $12 million from the year-ago period.
This decrease is a result of lower debt levels and continued benefits from our successful late 2013 repurchase of a portion of our higher coupon senior notes.
This in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded a Q2 adjusted net loss of $13 million and adjusted dilutive loss per share of $0.14.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
As of the end of the second quarter total net debt outstanding was $927 million On an all-cash netted basis our Q2 leverage ratio was 3.61 times net debt to EBITDA against our covenant maximum of four times.
Today we announced our intention to further amend our senior secured credit facility and receivables-backed facility to among other things modify the consolidated net leverage ratio covenant to increase our maximum permitted consolidated net leverage ratio.
Pursuant to the proposed amendments we will also be required to maintain a senior secured net leverage ratio.
We expect these amendments to be entered into later this month with effectiveness conditioned on Board approval as well as other customary closing conditions.
Year-to-date net cash flow from continuing operations was $25 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $54 million resulting in negative free cash flow used in continuing operations of $28 million.
On an adjusted basis which excludes the Morningstar tax payment and litigation payment Q2 adjusted free cash flow was negative $9 million.
Year-to-date adjusted pre-cash flow was $2 million down $23 million versus prior year.
During the quarter we also managed our working capital diligently in the face of continued dairy commodity increases.
As a result we were able to drive improved performance in our cash conversion cycle on a sequential and year-over-year basis driven by improved DSO and DIO performance.
Despite a 6% sequential rise in the Class I raw milk price our Q2 invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down $14 million to $497 million.
Year-over-year we achieved an improvement of $70 million against a 31% rise in the second quarters Class I milk price.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on our balance of year outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg.
Before we open up the call for questions let me give you some perspective on the forward outlook.
The balance of the year appears rocky with continued unpredictable and volatile dairy commodity environment.
That makes it difficult to provide guidance beyond the immediate quarter.
Therefore for the time being we are going to provide specific guidance only for the next quarter where our visibility is better.
In this case we expect a net loss of between $0.05 and $0.15 per adjusted diluted share in the third quarter.
While we hope to see a more positive environment later in the year the uncertainty surrounding whether or when that will occur leads us to withdraw our full year guidance for the present time.
Processors are under pressure in ways that we have not experienced before.
The longer these challenges persist the more difficult it becomes for cost-disadvantaged competitors to survive.
We would expect that this extremely challenged operating environment may cause some higher-cost firms to fail resulting in long-term opportunity for Dean to service additional customers at competitive prices.
We believe we are the cost leader in the industry today.
Our size and scale afford us opportunities to meaningfully extend our cost leadership position and we are aggressively attacking these opportunities and extending our lead.
We now expect CapEx to be at the low end our original $150 million to $175 million guidance.
So in summary we are clearly disappointed with our second quarter results.
We were challenged by record high diary commodity prices softening category volumes mix shift out of our brands and significant cost friction.
This is the most difficult operating environment weve ever experienced as a company.
However we continue to focus on the three things that we can control price realization cost productivity and volume at margins that deliver an appropriate return.
Looking forward were cautiously optimistic that we will see some commodity cost stabilization in the fourth quarter and are cautiously optimistic about declining raw milk prices in 2015.
We continue to drive improved efficiency and capability across the organization with a view toward positioning the company for long-term success.
I also want to again thank our employees for their hard work focus and discipline as we navigate our way through a very difficult operating environment.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
I just had a quick question -- two questions for you if I could a quick one on just how you are approaching retail pricing in this environment.
And well hope obviously were headed for a lower milk price going forward.
I am just curious to the degree to which you are holding back on pricing on your branded products and the degree to which retailers may be observing some of that increase in price as well.
Is that helping volumes a bit at least in relation to where it could be? Well its tough to say Chris were in an environment right now where its -- weve never seen this before.
So we have no data to support what those price thresholds should look like.
We believe that the retailers are absorbing some of this.
If you look back at our margin over milk in the second quarter was at about $1.39 I think and got as low as $1.35 coming out of May.
But if you look at what happened in June with the price decline in Class I it jumped back up to a $1.44.
That tells us that they are absorbing some of the margin now.
But theyre also going to put some of that margin back in their pocket as milk prices start to come back up.
As far as our pricing from a brand perspective we are at some price thresholds and I cant tell you across the country in every region what that looks like but we know that theres been some price thresholds that weve hung on to trying to avoid going above some of those.
But yeah trying to maintain the volume find that right balance between volume and price.
Okay.
And then I guess sort of in relation to that you talked about the amount of branded volume you sell being down a percentage overall.
I'm just curious did you outperform the industry then on that basis? Are you seeing less volume weakness on the branded side versus private label? And I guess I'm just trying to get sort of elasticity here for the consumer? Yeah.
We did outperform the rest of the category.
Our share of branded products is up 60 basis points on a year-over-year basis and we have lost about 30 basis points in the last few months but year-over-year our branded volume continues to outperform on the rest of the brands.
Internally within Deans Foods Chris there was a -- there is a negative mix shift taking place.
So our business transitioned about 1% of volume from brand to private label.
So thats a headwind for us as we experience that mix shift.
But to Greggs point brand versus brand our brands continue to win in the marketplace versus competitive brand.
Okay.
Thats very helpful.
Thanks for your time this morning.
Thanks Growe.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
Gregg when you look at the Q3 environment how much of a factor on the profit drag there is the ice cream business? I guess in the sense that as we get out of the peak season that drag becomes much smaller into 2015? Yeah.
I think thats true.
I think as we start to see some relief from these prices too that well see that play out larger.
If I was to categorize the four items that weve talked about as being drags I think the two big ones are obviously the volume itself from a category perspective in Class I prices.
And then I would probably go to deleverage and then probably the Class II issue.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up for Chris in terms of Morningstar having been sold is there anything seasonally in the back half of the year in Q4 in terms of being a net seller versus buyer of cream that we should consider in terms of looking at the cream market prices going forward? No.
I think our relationships there continue.
The people that were selling to today whether its people that previously were third-party customers or Saputo diary foods its kind of Id say mix and so the sale of Morningstar doesnt affect that as much as the volatility of fat prices will.
And thats the piece that will be difficult to predict out into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Your second question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Amit.
Good morning.
Gregg understanding the unpredictability of Class I prices at least in the near term and if we look at a little bit longer term longer term being six months here and you outlined some of the reasons why there is still expectations as prices are going to come down later this year and early next year.
So if you are thinking about 2015 which is where I think the stock is sort of getting valued at as we think about 2015 apart from milk prices I think there are a number of other things that are going to impact your 2015 operating performance.
If you can talk about that a little bit and how what is happening today impacts your 2015 performance I think that will be helpful? Then I have a follow-up on balance sheet.
I have been saying for almost 18 months that heres whats going happen in the dairy Class I commodity and I have missed every one of them.
So trying to prognosticate Class I at this point all the data shows you that it should start to come down.
All the fundamentals of the market say it should start to come down.
But those fundamentals have been in place now for probably five to six months and we have not seen it come down.
So we got to stay worried about the things we can control and the things that are going to impact 2015 from our perspective are the things that we can control.
Weve to get -- we got to continue to work on our cost structure and continue to make sure that were doing the things we can to extend our cost advantages.
We have to stay focused on pricing realization and making sure that were working on pricing to make sure our pass-through mechanisms are right.
And then we have to make sure that were focus on volume that makes sense from a margin perspective.
So those are the things that are going to impact 2015.
Do I think Class I should come down? Yeah I do.
But I cant predict that at this point.
Thats why we basically said it wouldnt be responsible for us to even try and project forward because we have been so far off on this.
And I agree.
What Im really trying to get to is of the factors that you do control your brand mix your TruMoo penetration the plant closures and what kind of contribution we going to get from that we talk about lower shrinkage cost.
Is there any reason to believe that your ability to execute on those is impaired by what is happening in this quarter or in this environment? No.
I dont think theres anything that impairs us.
The one thing that continues to be a drag is the category.
And the category is the biggest one.
I think I continue to look at this and say Im confident the things that were doing are the right things to get us where we need to go.
The category -- if the category were to get back to normal 2% than I would be very pleased with that.
But right now we got to deal what we have in front of us.
And thats about the best I can give you at this point.
But I dont -- there is nothing that tells me that the things that were working on are not going to allow us to deliver on what weve told you all along.
And then one quick follow-up on the balance sheet Chris could you talk about what kind of interest expense impact will we have from this amendment? And the thinking behind it is that it's more of a backward-looking amendment like what has happened this first half and likely to happen in third quarter that you want to build some flexibility rather than a view on what is going to happen in 2015? Amit Ill let Tim talk to the details of that.
Okay.
Hey Amit.
So the amendment that were considering and that we outlined in the press release you can see it both revolver as well as the AR securitization.
So the revolver the grid and so forth that we have in that facility today is the same grid that we had in July of 2013.
What were proposing to do here is add two grid -- two price points on top of that which would be incremental price increases of 25 basis points when youre above 3.5 times leverage and another 25 basis points on top of that when youre above 4 times leverage.
With respect to AR securitization that facility was priced at 80 basis points flat.
So were working today towards a scenario that would provide a grid that would range anywhere from 20 basis points to 30 basis points above that current 80 basis points assuming where we were on grid with respect to our leverage.
So I would characterize interest expenses changes as relates to Q3 and what were guiding to as minimal.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Amit its really that change on the balance sheet that I think might be the only thing that would have been answer to your question on what would impair our potential for execution in 2015.
Dean Foods were still operating at the levels of leverage that it existed at a few years ago then you might see a different situation.
But this is really kind of now a testament to getting the balance sheet right setting up the new Dean Foods the way we did a year year and a half ago with a very strong balance sheet means that you really dont have any risk of that kind of impairment going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Alexia.
Can I ask about the annual run rate of cost reductions here? Youve obviously got the big plant closure program going on this year but how do you add up like how much you are going to save year-on-year this year and then whats the ongoing run rate that you expect on more of the ongoing activity? And then I have a follow-up.
I mean I think if you look back during the accelerated process and I think what we had said in years past was that it was going to around $125 million range.
But we have no reason to believe that were not  we dont continue to be on track with that.
And then our ongoing would be somewhere around $80 million to $100 million and we think thats still on track as well.
Great.
Okay.
Thats great.
And then the volume on new contracts I seem to remember that you picked up a few additional contracts I guess either late last year early this year I think it was actually.
Is it possible that we might see volume actually start to improve or could you tell us how much the volume of those new contracts is likely to be and have you picked up any additional ones at this point? Well as we said in our prepared remarks our share continues improve.
So we were up 20 basis points in the quarter and up over 1% since we hit bottom back in 2013.
So yes we continue to pick more volume.
The other point would be the point that we made in our prepared remarks and that is that if you look at the RFP lost volume and you include the volume from the supplier or the customer in the upper Midwest who went vertical last year our volume was actually only off by about three tenths of a percent which is considerably better than the category.
So we believe we continue to pick up volume.
We think we continue to take advantage of our cost structure and see where that takes us.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Ill hop.
Your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning Akshay.
Hi.
My first question is on your cost to serve and it's two parts so what -- you have mentioned the timing lag between your initiatives on accelerated plant closures and its impact on your P&amp;L basically or cost to serve.
Can you talk about once that timing lag -- when will that timing lag end and what impact on a per gallon basis that could have on your cost to serve? That's the first one.
And then secondly talk a little bit about your distribution costs basically your [DSD] network.
I think it's about $0.43 a gallon to start off and you are in the early stages there.
Whats the opportunity there to lower your cost per unit? Are there some comparisons that you look at across other industries where you get confidence that that number can be lowered significantly? So those are my first two questions on cost to serve and then I have a follow-up? Okay.
Let me start with the -- what we see as that the -- what we call transitory costs as we transition out of some of these plant closures.
All of them will play a bit differently as far as timing.
But I would guess in most cases that if you look at the timing of the transitory costs they typically over 60-day to 90-day period depending on how long youre holding the property and what costs remain to maintain or hold the property from a security and maintenance perspective.
So in most cases the majority of that probably goes away over some 90-day period.
Our expectations as weve said is that both our distribution and our conversion cost will go down in the second half of the year.
Now thats all assuming that the volume doesnt accelerate -- the volume decline doesnt accelerate but its our expectation that they will continue to go down.
As far as that and how it impacts our cost to serve the incremental miles that we drive because of these plant closures.
As we look at our supply chain we look at it from what we call our total supply chain costs or our total landing costs.
That will be what our total -- what well look at is are we driving down our total landing cost from the facilities all the way through to our customers.
And our belief is thats what we will be doing as we come out of these plant closures.
Does that answer your first question? That does help but what when I'm really trying to get is get some color on magnitude of this.
And perhaps you can comment on sort of how much of this is being -- if any of your progress it's being masked by higher milk prices and the margins on butterfat and on ice cream specifically.
So if you exclude milk costs and that stuff which is not really in your hands do you feel like you've already lowered your cost to serve? I mean bottom line is we are trying to figure out when will this come -- flow down to your EBIT per gallon? Yeah.
I mean you should see in the second half of the year.
We believe that it would show up today if it werent for some of the other headwinds that we have.
And if were not able to accelerate our share gains to make up for that then youre seeing that new sort of deleverage that wasnt in the P&amp;L before will have an effect on both distribution cost and plant operating cost so lowest landing cost the way Gregg just describe them will be fighting a big of an uphill battle if the category has gotten worst than run rate.
Can you just comment a little bit on the branded margins as well as the mix shift -- that seems to be a relatively new phenomenon in terms of percentage of your volumes coming from branded; it seems to have come down and what impact that has on margins? Can you help us a little bit there from what I understand the branded margins per gallon are significantly higher than private label so if you can help us there that would be good? Thanks Yeah.
I think what we have said in the past is that our branded margins I think run at about $0.60 -- $0.60 to $0.65 depending on the part of the country higher than the private label margins.
So as you lose volume from a branded perspective it obviously has a drag on your P&amp;L.
Akshay it kind of goes back to Chriss first question that if you go back to a year ago if we had a brand sitting out there and it was in a higher cost geography and it was perhaps already in a 499 threshold versus another brand that was out there at 449 a year ago as Class I prices have increased over those 12 months by $0.50 to $0.60 a gallon.
We were reluctant to take pricing on the brand that was at 499 because we didnt want to breach that $5 threshold on the brand thats started at 449.
We would have had more flexibility and that brand may have taken the full amount of price increase the full amount of cost increase and may now today be sitting at 499 as well.
But its hard to -- because each of those regional brands had its own kind of starting place and its own profile relative to competition and private label.
Its a little tough.
Other than to say as you can see in the P&amp;L there has been margin compression on our branded white milk products particularly on large format and then coupled with the mix shift that we described that creates that -- it certainly contributes to that gross profit headwind that were fighting against.
And just one thing that intrigued me in just your commentary was you still expect to return to more of a normalized cost savings initiative or run rate.
Given the sequential worse than expected deterioration and volumes shouldn't you accelerate your plans even more to lower your costs? Perhaps I think what I am reading in there is some optimism in terms of these cost savings flowing through at some point in the next six months and perhaps you see that better than us.
Is that the right way to read that? If the volumes are getting worse branded margins have worsened; we would expect perhaps you to double down even more on your cost savings initiatives.
So why still say that after an accelerated period on cost savings you're going to return to a more normal rate? Thanks.
Just keep in mind that the category data that were talking about that to extent the category has now move to a new lower level that it had been for the prior two or three years is only two months old so weve got April USDA data.
Weve got May USDA data.
And in fact May got better than April April was down 4.5%.
May was down 3.5%.
So it might be premature for us to sit here today based on 60 days worth of data and announce a reacceleration of that program.
We have to see where the category is going to settle out.
If no prices come down and thats a big headwind for the category today then you may see the category rebound to that minus 2% level than it been at.
And then within all that we also have to gauge our ability to gain share.
So all those things will intersect to sort of guidance towards the right level of cost productivity.
And I think as we sit here today it might be a little premature to pull the [fire alarm] on that.
Thank you.
Were currently at -- if you just look at our network ops as volumes continues to fall youre not going to see us back away from taking costs out of the system.
So our network optimization will continue.
So it will more dependent upon whether or not the category continues in the two-month trend or not and I think Chris said it well.
If the category goes back to normal trends and you should expect us to continue to drive our cost advantage.
We have time for one more question coming from the line of Brett Hundley with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Brett.
I just have a one quick question.
Chris just want to confirm your level of confidence on guidance for Q3.
We watch kind of this average industry margin and it seems to continue to fly during July and August and hopefully you guys have some savings roll through as well to offset some of that.
Can you just talk about your level of confidence in that range? Well I looked back the day the other day and through 2013 the four quarters last year we met or exceeded guidance for four quarters in a row and then this year now we missed guidance at the low end for two quarters in a row.
So Im confident.
Weve expanded the range a little bit.
We had previously been at $0.06 or $0.08.
So you see us today announcing a $0.10 range.
That I guess mathematically allows me to be a little bit more confident but obviously the market place is still pretty volatile.
We have good line of sight obviously as you know today to what milk costs are going to look like in the quarter and thats a big contributor to my level of confidence the piece that we probably have a little less and sense of confidence level thats visibility to is the category.
So as I said to Akshay I think the category is a big driver of how our income statement plays our every quarter and if the category stays that kind of that minus four it rebounds to two thats a little bit guess work right now.
The only other thing I would remind everybody I know everybody on the call knows but we deal with a fairly thin margin of error in our business where we are $0.01 is worth a million and a half dollars of operating income even a$0.10 range even the odd $0.06 range that weve quoted in the past those are fairly tight tolerances on a business thats going to do $2 billion to $2.5 billion of net sales in the quarter it sort of equates that to a level of forecast accuracy thats above 1% volume accuracy and around $0.01 per gallon of profit accuracy.
So we ask our team to forecast with a pretty sharp pencil when they do it.
Understood alright thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moscow with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Research Division</strong> Yeah thanks for getting me in there.
I wanted to know  Ive heard the management talk about the likelihood or possibility anyway of capacity coming out of the industry and clearly this is the time for it to happen since conditions are so bad.
But Ive never seen any kind of numbers or any kind of even maybe some anecdotal information about what your competitors how your actions or how the industry has affected your competitors.
Have you ever done any math around heres how much capacity we think really could come out and heres how much capacity probably wont come out simply because maybe its in a co-op and it just has different kind of capital requirements or different constituents involved.
Thanks.
Robert I obviously am not going to speculate of what our competitors are doing or what we think they are going to do.
If we look at the overall category or we look at where were at our asset utilization I think is probably not inconsistent with the industry and its in the low 50s.
So you can draw your own conclusions of how much needs to come out for that to get up in that 70% 75% 80% range from an asset utilization perspective.
I try to keep our organization focused on the things we can do and the things we can control and our competitive set is not one of them.
So we try to stay pretty much focused on our own.
Research Division</strong> And maybe if I could ask the follow-up then Gregg can you help us on our side maybe think regionally? Like are there any regions of the country where the capacity utilization is particularly low? No I think youve got a balance across most of between verticals and independent processors and co-ops youve got to balance across most of the country.
So its really not a given part of the country where you would say it is totally different I cant think of one Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well thank you.
We have time for one more question coming from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for allowing the last question.
I guess you talked about in a little bit more detail the leveraging of the DSD network.
It sounded like -- I wasn't sure I understood all the phrases but maybe bringing on third-party product to leverage the DSD and the fixed cost.
Could you just go into that in a little more detail and what could that mean in terms of a help to -- versus the core milk business? Yeah we didnt talk about it in the context of product coming in Eric what we did talk about is we talked about in third party freight.
So in many cases where we would take in freight on a two way trip we now have looked at going to third parties to do it one way.
And so we talked about it in the context of lean logistics what we are doing so weve taken out third party providers down by about 75% and taken our leverage in scale and leverage in that for all of our third party freight which will provide us a significant savings.
The other piece of the logistics that I spoke about today was more around the intermodal and that using intermodal which just piggybacks on rail to go from the Midwest to the East Coast or West Coast and by using that we get significantly lower transportation cost.
And then beyond that the big things that were doing are continuing to drive just all of our key productivity measurements getting all the right key performance indicators in place and then driving that through continuous improvements.
Now thats all on the drive efficiencies drive effectiveness or logistics.
We continue to look at opportunities to bring things into our network that would allow us to take advantage of our refrigerated system and leverage that up to improve drop size or drop size economics and well continue to look for opportunities along those lines but we didnt speak to anything in specific about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right I pass on.
Thank you.
Good luck.
Thanks.
That concludes the question-and-answer session.
I will turn the call back over to Gregg Tanner for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you again for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
Have a good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Q3 2014 Dean Foods earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions].
I'd like to remind all parties this call is being recorded for replay purposes and now I'd like to hand over to Scott Vopni Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Sandra and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at DeanFoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at SEC.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the 2013 spinoff and disposition of our remaining interest in WhiteWave common stock the Morningstar divestiture and our early retirement of debt.
We would also like to advise you that the forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among other things disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings network optimization plans dairy commodity pricing the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the Company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in today's prepared section of the call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer and Chris Bellairs our CFO.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our third-quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we reported third-quarter results that were above our previously articulated guidance range of $0.05 to $0.15 adjusted diluted net loss per share.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $10 million and a $0.03 adjusted diluted net loss per share.
While both metrics were down considerably from year-ago results given the continued challenges facing the dairy industry due to the dairy commodity complex we are encouraged by the sequential improvement of our operating results which we believe reflects the success of our current business efforts.
As we indicated in our quarterly call in August we expected the third quarter to be a microcosm of the full year.
This year has clearly been the most difficult operating environment we've ever experienced as a company.
And so we remain rigorous in our focus on the things we control  price realization cost productivity and volume at margins that deliver an appropriate return.
Total volumes in the third quarter were 673 million gallons which represents a 2% year-over-year decline due to the partial loss of private label business with a significant customer and declines within our Class II products.
Excluding the lost RFP business total volumes declined 1%.
As of the end of the third quarter we have now lapped the RFP impact.
Specifically within fluid milk volumes on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods declined 1%.
Excluding the significantly diminished impact of the RFP our fluid milk volumes for the third quarter decreased 0.6% year-over-year.
During the quarter on a year-over-year basis slight declines in large and small format channels were partially offset by growth in food service and the school business channels where we experienced 1% to 2% increases.
Fluid milk category volumes remained soft and volume declines continued beyond what we would consider the normal trajectory of the category.
As Class I raw milk prices remained at elevated levels the category continued to be weak.
IRI data indicates that year-over-year refrigerated fluid milk volumes in the multi-outlet or MULO and convenient store channels were down 3.8% for the quarter.
While a sequential improvement versus Q2's decline of 4.3% they are still in excess of the long-term norm.
USDA data affords us a more complete picture of the US milk metrics in our category than IRI data which contains a fair amount of extrapolation and tends to be overindexed to large format.
Unfortunately USDA data lags IRI by several months and we do not have the USDA data for any of the months in Q3.
Our visibility to our share performance is hampered with USDA data now lagging longer than usual.
But when published we believe the USDA data will show that the category continued to decline in Q3.
With our volume performance in Q3 if the USDA data were to report a category decline of 3% our share would approximate 35.6%.
This would represent a 0.7% increase in our share of the fluid milk category since bottoming out in the third quarter of 2013 at 34.9%.
We are encouraged by several dynamics within our fluid milk portfolio.
We believe we continue to outperform the category and realize increases in our share.
With pricing actions beginning to take effect this quarter we may have experienced a sequential decline in our share.
We are monitoring the performance of our branded white milk volume with an eye to demand destruction associated with price points or thresholds at retail and price gaps to private label.
At retail our brands average $4.08 per gallon in both Q2 and Q3 up $0.31 versus Q3 2013.
Additionally the price gap between our brands and private label expanded 6% year-over-year from $0.62 to $0.66 this year.
These higher price points and price gaps versus private label continue to put our branded portfolio under pressure.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix we averaged just under 36% branded for the quarter.
However since the third quarter of 2013 when raw milk prices began their steady and steep climb our brand mix has declined by approximately 1%.
Notwithstanding thoughtful pricing architecture decisions compared to the prior year our branded white milk volumes are down 4% for both the quarter and year-to-date.
And our share of branded white milk at retail declined approximately 1% on both a year-over-year and sequential basis.
The tradedown from our brands to private label white milk especially if it's not a private label we produce represents an undeniable headwind to our P&amp;L.
We believe our portfolio of brands is a competitive advantage and complements our customer set and leverages our national scale and distribution capabilities in network.
As of Q3 our brands held number 1 or number 2 positions in approximately 80% of the markets we serve.
We believe we have a loyal consumer following and our data would suggest that the declining raw milk cost we should see increase in our brand mix.
Moving to the flavored milk side overall our flavored milk volumes were flat compared to last year.
As we continue to extend our national TruMoo brand into new categories such as ice cream and protein we see a path and trajectory towards building TruMoo into a $1 billion brand.
In the convenient store channel TruMoo experienced an 11% increase versus prior year in a marginally improving flavored milk channel and share increased to over 2%.
Across MULO TruMoo's share remained flat as volume performed in line with the flavored milk category which improved 1% sequentially.
We continue to focus on growing our national distribution by augmenting our DSD capability with new warehouse and extended shelf life capability.
In addition we continue to invest against the brand at leadership levels and both retailers and consumers are responding.
As a result TruMoo continues to realize share growth in food drug and convenience channels and reached a new all-time ACV with secure distribution in 72% of US shelves.
Following our successful pilot last year which was 100% incremental to the (technical difficulty) business we have just launched 2 TruMoo protein plus SKUs nationally and have already received authorization in 80% of our top key accounts.
We intend to market and build brand awareness for the new protein product at leadership levels.
With TruMoo Protein Plus we're targeting young adult males bringing a new consumer to the TruMoo franchise.
Turning to pricing during the quarter the margin over milk or spread between Class I mover in the retail price of private label gallons generally moved in line with the Class I mover and was relatively flat at approximately $1.39 per gallon in Q3 compared to $1.40 per gallon in the previous quarter.
The Q3 margin over milk continues to hover at historic lows and is well below the $1.52 per gallon in Q3 of 2013.
Retailers are clearly choosing price points very consciously and have not passed on the full impact of the commodity inflation experienced this year to the consumers.
In the future we expect that as raw milk prices decline retailers will restore greater profitability to the dairy case by maintaining private label price points and the margin over milk will move back toward the post 2010 historical mean of $1.50 to $1.60.
There was no abatement to raw milk costs in the third quarter as $23.51 quarterly average trailed the second quarter average by less than 1% and was 24% above year-ago levels.
Including November's announced price of $24.06 Class I raw milk prices have increased 12 out of the last 15 months and every month since February has been higher than the previous all-time high watermark of $21.91 in September of 2007.
Obviously these price levels both in tenure and absolute terms continue to be unprecedented in our history and unfortunately we expect the fourth-quarter average to also be among the highest quarterly averages ever.
Input costs at these levels have a number of meaningful negative effects on our business including increased volume softness resulting from increases in retail prices increased pressure on our margins especially across our portfolio of branded white milk products and higher costs associated with various forms of shrink.
Commodity pressures were not limited to fresh fluid milk as input costs also increased across our Class II product offerings.
Reduced levels of domestic butter stocks heading into our traditionally heavy consumption holiday period created a bidding frenzy rapidly driving steep Class II price increases.
Average Q3 CME spot butter prices increased 82% versus prior-year levels to $2.68.
CME spot butter prices have increased sequentially every month this year peaking at an all-time high of $3.06 per pound in late September.
The sustained month-over-month Class II commodity increases and large price movements in short timeframes like we experienced again this quarter can be difficult to effectively pass through.
After the end of the quarter spot butter prices and CME cash settled butter futures have both declined precipitously.
On a sequential basis despite Class I and Class II costs at or near record highs our concerted pricing actions began to take hold and our third-quarter gross profit margin per gallon increased $0.026.
I'll provide additional commentary on the current all-time high dairy commodity environment in a few minutes.
We continue to aggressively take cost out of the business.
A major cornerstone of our efficiency efforts in 2013 and 2014 included the planned closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network or 8 to 12 plants by mid-2014.
Culminating this quarter we have now closed 12 facilities since we began ramping up activities late in 2012.
Looking forward we expect to return to more historic levels of network optimization.
Over the short term there is an amount of inefficiency that occurs with plant closures.
Cost reductions lag the extra cost incurred as we move volume within our network and concurrently ramp up and wind down production and distribution.
In the third quarter we continued to experience these transitory costs in production and distribution activities associated with our 4 recent plant closures.
This offset some of the savings from our previous optimization activities and some of our in-year cost productivity improvement.
Because of volume deleverage our year-over-year total landed cost per gallon has increased each of the last 7 quarters but with our cost-reduction efforts being realized the rate of year-over-year increases is declining.
As we move past this extended period of heavy plant closure activity and realize further cost reductions we believe the rate of per-unit production and distribution costs will continue to decline and flatten from year-over-year basis.
Despite focused net price realization efforts and progress in our cost-reduction initiatives Q3 adjusted gross profit declined $26 million or 6%.
The logistics organization continues to focus on a number of initiatives to drive continued productivity to help offset inflation volume deleverage and what we call the distribution penalty or the increased miles driven resulting from plant closures.
In the third quarter with the aforementioned transitory costs and the distribution penalty logistics cost were up slightly on a year-over-year basis.
As we continue to extend our cost-minded focus to all aspects of our business SG&amp;A excluding advertising and incentive compensation was $4 million below year-ago levels.
We reported operating income of $10 million for the quarter a $32 million year-over-year decrease versus last year's $42 million.
But sequentially improvement in our net price realization led to a $0.026 increase in gross profit margin per gallon.
Behind focused and concerted efforts across our entire business operating results improved despite record high raw milk and butter fat costs above norm fluid milk category weakness brand mix shifts volume deleverage resulting from the impact of the RFP volume loss and transitory costs.
For the quarter operating income improved $16 million sequentially.
I want to take a few moments to update you on the extraordinarily challenging and unprecedented dairy commodity landscape we have experienced this year.
Last year with international supply constraints in New Zealand and the EU coupled with significantly increased Chinese import demand all major US dairy product export volumes experienced meaningful year-over-year increases.
This absorbed domestic supply and depleted domestic stocks coming into 2014.
In 2014 milk production continues to expand strongly in export regions.
During the first half of 2014 milk production across the top 7 exporters increased 5.1% versus prior year.
It's expected that their milk production growth will moderate in the second half of 2014 and be approximately 4.1% for the full year.
But this would represent the strongest supply growth in over a decade.
After modest growth rates earlier this year strong US production is coming online with mild weather favorable feed costs and quality and with increases in the herd and yield per cow milk production in the US is expected to increase approximately 3.5% in the second half of 2014.
High farm gate prices and low feed costs especially corn are creating strong producer margins and continuing to drive supply.
Because production is expected to outpace the local market demand even as the economy and prices ease manufacturers will have to choose between selling at lower prices or building stocks.
International dairy prices have declined dramatically since peaking in February.
On the supply side production rose at unprecedented rates in export regions creating ample supply and increasing product available for the world markets.
On the demand side overall consumption growth in these export regions remains modest.
In addition China and Russia which represent 20% of global imports and were the world's number 1 and number 2 importers in 2013 respectively have substantially reduced their import purchases.
Domestic Chinese milk supply has improved more than expected and beginning in April China has substantially reduced forward purchases as it works through accumulated inventory.
Russia's decision in August to place an embargo on most dairy products from the EU US and certain other countries had a pronounced impact to its import demand and EU dairy exports especially cheese.
Finally the other import buyers who make up 80% of the global import demand have shown little reentry into the market to restock.
As the market attempted to clear available and increasing supply international prices have fallen and fallen materially.
US prices for powder cheese and butter now sit at significant premiums compared to the prices of their international product counterpart.
Total US dairy exports increased approximately 4% through September of this year despite an 11% decline in August and a 16% decline in September.
However because of previous strong forward bookings by international buyers cheese exports are up 26% over this same timeframe.
Strong exports have left little room for domestic inventory building of the already depleted stocks and so commercial inventories across cheese and butter have remained below year-ago levels.
With its recent appearance on the cover of Time magazine and back in vogue with some doctors and consumers butter has been in high demand domestically.
The significantly reduced levels of domestic butter stocks heading into our traditionally heavy consumption holiday period created a bidding frenzy driving prices up rapidly and steeply in Q3 to all-time highs.
Given the extent of how price disadvantaged the US is vis-a-vis the world markets export activities are decreasing and imports are increasing.
Recent prices on the exchange have dropped significantly and the CME butter prices are over $1 per pound lower than spot prices just a month ago.
Under the complex price setting mechanisms cheese not butter will set Class I mover prices in the upcoming months.
We believe cheese prices which have held up better so far will also converge due to the pricing in balance.
From a narrowing quarter perspective with solid global production against waning demand domestic supply increasing and outpacing demand the large and unfavorable differential in US versus international dairy prices as well as other factors we expect domestic raw milk cost to moderate as we exit 2014 and move into 2015.
Outside of the narrowing quarter accurately predicting the timing and sequencing and magnitude of change remains very challenging for us and other industry experts.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the results of the income statement as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L total volumes declined 2% in the quarter.
Despite focused net price realization efforts dairy commodity costs continue to be a headwind for our business across both our fluid milk and Class II products.
Although we are making progress in our cost-reduction initiatives the transition of these volumes out of our network coupled with an above trend weakening of the fluid milk category outpaced the impact of our efforts and resulted in fixed cost deleverage within the quarter.
The result was a Q3 year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of $26 million or 6%.
Below the gross profit line total Company operating expenses increased $6 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expense increased $5 million primarily due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities.
SG&amp;A expenses increased $3 million over last year due to the timing of short-term incentive reductions offset by lower long-term incentive compensation.
But as Gregg previously mentioned excluding advertising and incentive comp SG&amp;A costs were $4 million below year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income decline of $32 million to $10 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense decreased $9 million from the year-ago period.
This decrease is a result of the continued benefits from the successful late 2013 repurchase of a portion of our higher coupon senior notes partially offset by higher debt levels.
This in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded a Q3 adjusted net loss of $3 million and adjusted diluted loss per share of $0.03.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $50 million a 39% decline from $81 million in the prior-year period.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow as of the end of the third quarter total net debt outstanding was $948 million up from $927 million at the end of Q2.
This increase was primarily due to deterioration in working capital caused by the normal seasonality of our school business and the expected stepup of capital spend in the quarter associated with our network optimization efforts.
On an all cash netted basis our Q3 leverage ratio was 4.23 times net debt to EBITDA which was slightly over 1 turn below our covenant maximum of 5.25 times.
Subject to obtaining Board approval we intend to redeem the $23.8 million of remaining senior notes due 2018 during the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was negative $11 million down $108 million versus prior year.
Adjustments primarily relate to current year tax payments associated with last year's Morningstar divestiture and a $19 million Tennessee litigation payment the second of our 4 annual installments.
During the quarter we were unable to maintain our working capital levels from the previous quarter as high dairy commodity costs persisted and our school business came back online.
As a result our cash conversion cycle reflected declining DSO and DIO performance.
As Class I raw milk price and Class II butterfat costs remained at or near record highs our Q3 invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was up $58 million to $554 million.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on our balance of year outlook before opening the call up for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Let me give you some perspective on the forward outlook.
The dairy commodity environment remains extremely challenging and for the fourth quarter we expect raw milk costs will remain stubbornly high despite continued strong global production growth and waning demand.
While we don't expect much relief on raw milk costs for the growing imbalance between US dairy commodity pricing vis-a-vis the world markets until early 2015 we do expect significant butterfat cost declines at the end of Q4.
Industry volumes remain soft and we expect our Q4 volumes to be down low single digits as compared to prior year.
But with a continued improvement to net price realization further we expect the higher landed costs we've experienced behind transitory costs for plant closure activities to begin to flatten.
All told we expect Q4 EPS of $0.05 to $0.15 per share resulting in full-year loss per share of between $0.06 and $0.16.
We expect full-year adjusted EBITDA to be between $193 million and $208 million resulting in an increase to our leverage ratio in Q4.
We expect our adjusted free cash flow to end the year at approximately breakeven with CapEx being close to $150 million the low end of our original $150 million to $175 million guidance.
We recognize that these results fall well short of expectations and performance objectives we set for ourselves as we entered 2014.
But at the same time we are encouraged by the sequential improvement in our operating performance in Q3 and that we expect to deliver in Q4 even as dairy costs remain at historic highs.
In regards to next year we are in the midst of our annual planning process for 2015 and we won't get into any details or specifics at this time but we will continue to drive improved efficiency and capability across the organization to begin rebuilding our P&amp;L in 2015 and position the Company for long-term success.
In summary we continue to face considerable headwinds to our business  record high dairy commodity prices above trend category volume softness mix shift out of our brands and significant cost friction.
In response we continue to focus on the 3 things that we control  price realization cost productivity and volumes at margins that deliver an appropriate return.
For the third quarter we are pleased with our overall execution the progress we're making on our cost agenda and our sequential improving results.
Our Company vision is to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion.
As I look forward I am as confident and positive as I've ever been.
I firmly believe we can realize this vision and deliver our commitments to our employees our customers the consumers of our great-tasting products and our shareholders.
I believe we have a sound business model and a strong core business to grow upon.
We also have a passionate and dedicated workforce with a mindset to do it.
I also want to again thank our employees for their hard work commitment discipline and focus on our agenda while never compromising on quality safety or service.
I also want to take the opportunity to publicly thank all of those who have served our country as we celebrate Veterans Day tomorrow.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Hi good morning guys.
Hi Matthew.
I wanted to come back and ask about the sequential improvement in gross margin.
You gave a little bit of detail you spoke about the improvement in landed costs and progress on per-unit production costs.
But can you elaborate a bit more on what allows you to realize improvement in gross profit per gallon sequentially despite a similar level of volumes and Class I prices?  Yes I'll touch it and then let Chris jump in with a little more detail maybe but I would tell you that the 2 things that did it was our costs year-over-year were basically flat up just a touch and the price realization that we achieved on the top line so our pricing that we took I think was the biggest thing that allowed us to get to the $0.026.
That would be my general take on it.
That's it in a nutshell.
I agree with Gregg.
I think you guys have seen in prior quarters that earlier in the year on the price line net price realization we may have fallen a little bit behind but we are not sitting on our hands waiting for lower milk prices to be the only thing that improves gross profit.
So the team on the net price realization side has been working very hard since then to reverse those.
And as Gregg said we're on the back end of the cost productivity curve now so both of those things worked together pretty strongly in the quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just a quick follow-up on costs.
We've heard from others in the industry this quarter that freight costs have started to tick up due to a driver shortage issue.
Is this an issue that you're starting to see in your business and could it have a semi  not from a guidance standpoint but could it have a semi-material impact on 2015 and is this playing into how you're thinking about your efforts in intermodal? Yes we're hearing the same thing Matt.
We're seeing driver shortages and obviously with our fleet we continue to hire drivers as well but I think when you look at the pros and cons of third-party freight going up a little bit and some of the tailwinds that we should get out of our cost initiatives as well as I think we're going to see a little bit of tailwind coming out of diesel for next year I think net-net we'll be fine.
Okay great.
Thanks again.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Amit.
Good morning Amit.
Gregg just wanted to focus on 2 portions pertaining to the outlook for next year.
So you talked about landed costs coming down and various industry outlooks for milk prices calling for a pretty substantial decline in Class I prices for next year.
So keeping those 2 things in mind let's talk about your branded mix.
So you lost a percent point of share this year.
As prices come down do you expect to recover what impact will it have on your margins? And the second thing is that milk over  margin over milk that you talked about $0.20 $0.30 below average as it re-expands to a normalized range how much of that do you expect to accrue to profits? Let me try to take  the first one I would tell you from a branded perspective.
If history repeats itself which it typically does we would see that our branded share would come back as prices started to come down.
If you look over the last period of time 5 years you could see that it goes up and down basis the prices about a percentage either way maybe a couple percent either way but it stays in a pretty tight band.
So we would anticipate that that 1% would come back to us as prices came down.
The second part of your question as far as margin over milk if you assumed that the retailers are going to get back to their historical norms which would be between $1.50 and $1.60 from $1.39 and we think they will as prices start to decline so I would say that as they put that profit back into the dairy category all of us will benefit mainly because our branded gap will start to come back closer.
So we said earlier that we're about $0.66 difference between our branded and private label pricing today.
You'll see that gap start to close as retailers come back with more historical levels of their margin over milk.
Any color Gregg on the quantitative impact on your per-gallon operating margins from these 2 factors? It's so complicated because if you think about how the brand private label mix change will occur you've got to get down even to channel level because from large format to small format those profit margins are very different.
So we're hopeful that as the brand private label mix recovers that we see some of that benefit in large format because that's where it would be more helpful to the income statement.
But at this point there are a number of variables involved in that.
So calling it with a high amount of specificity would be hard.
Yes I don't know how we would do that just because you've got to project it  as Chris said you've got to project it not only by channel but you've got to project it as to timing and that would be really tough.
That's fair but suffice it to say that margin should expand to not historic level but what we saw in It should improve it should improve.
Okay that's all from me.
Thank you.
Thank you good morning.
Hi Judy.
So I wanted to follow up on Matt's question regarding the sequential improvement and this is more about the 4Q guidance which I think implies even further improvement EBIT per gallon of I think $0.05 or so which is a pretty big stepup from what you saw even in the third quarter.
So can you just elaborate on what the drivers are in terms of the sequential from 3Q to 4Q EBIT per gallon improvement? I mean I think again it comes back to the 3 things that we do control.
It's pricing actions that impact our net price realization improvement so we'll continue to see the benefit that we got in the third quarter with some additional price realization in the fourth.
We will see our costs the transitory costs continue to decline as we come out of the third quarter into the fourth.
So we should see our costs start to flatten if not start to decline.
And then we're all the way through our RFP volume loss at this point because I hope this is the last time we have to talk about that but that's totally overlapped.
So you get the 2 of those you should see some continuation of our sequential gross profit and OI improvement as we move into the fourth quarter.
The only thing I would add to that Judy is the steep decline in Class II butterfat prices in the fourth quarter.
So remember we didn't get really any benefit from that in the third quarter and that has been a substantial headwind for the business over the last 3 quarters even over the last 4 quarters.
So in the fourth quarter you get benefit from that and in some respects you almost might think of it as one-time benefit because butterfat prices aren't going to continue.
They will still go down some more but we're getting a reset in the fourth quarter.
So some of that sequential improvement a material amount of that sequential improvement in Q4 will be attributable to Class II butterfat.
Okay.
If I could just follow up on  so I guess 1 area where it seems like things have really improved that you're controlling is the pricing actions and I just wanted to better understand what's been changing as you've taken some of that pricing action and the response that you've seen and you've talked about the branded share being down as a mix.
Is that being driven by the pricing actions that you're taking and then as butter prices come down and the Class I movers' pricing does potentially come down does that then reverse more quickly in terms of you having to give back some of the pricing actions that you've taken in the third and maybe in the fourth quarter? Yes let me try to touch on  it's really hard to tell.
One of the issues that we continue to be faced with is the lack of data and especially with USDA data coming in.
I mean we have not received any USDA data since June of this year.
So it's hard to say what impact it's having on our share or on our  we have to make some assumptions around that.
But I would tell you that we do believe that we're seeing some impact from the pricing on our brands especially our regional brands that we're seeing those get impacted by the price increases that we're taking.
I think the other thing is as we continue to push up against certain price thresholds that we finally decided that we had to go through.
We had held off trying to go above $4.
We finally decided we have to go above $4 and in some cases above $5 in some markets.
So I think we're seeing the implications of that in our price realization and actually haven't seen it impact the volume as dramatically as we may have anticipated.
As far as why we did it more so in the second and third quarters is because we finally figured out that maybe this thing wasn't coming down in the near term because we kept anticipating that it would be coming down 2 to 3 months out.
I think we finally got to a point where that wasn't happening so we needed to get this price.
Got it okay thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Akshay.
Good morning Akshay.
Can you clarify  so first question is on the debt covenants.
Based on your guidance it seems like you're going to be in compliance with 4Q with your 4Q covenant.
Is that correct? I will let Chris speak to the specifics of it but I would tell you that we have no plan to amend our covenants.
Yes that is the performance that's implied in our OI guidance correct.
Okay perfect.
And then just to follow up on the pricing improvements I mean when I look at your gallon metrics and your dollar sales it's not really evident to us to me at least how I should judge the pricing performance.
Sequentially it actually seems like you did better in 2Q.
So perhaps maybe we could take this offline if it's too detailed but I'm having a hard time really figuring out how you did better on pricing but maybe you can give us some qualitative information.
And in that context maybe also talk about your recent hire of Ralph.
I think he's going to be your new commercial officer and what are the plans there? Well I will let Chris talk to the specifics of the pricing and why you may be seeing it differently than we are seeing it but I will speak to Ralph.
I am extremely confident that Ralph Scozzafava will bring to the party what we need in the commercial organization.
He's demonstrated the experience and the leadership capabilities so I think the biggest thing that we're looking for from Ralph is helping us find different avenues to grow.
So my expectation is that he will come in and help deliver that.
I think the best way to look at the pricing performance the proxy that I look at on pricing is gross profit and in the first half of the year on average for Q2 and Q1 GP per gallon was about $0.60 and versus prior year again for Q1 and Q2 together in aggregate was down about $0.08 versus prior year.
In Q3 GP per gallon stepped up to $0.62 a gallon and was only only down $0.026 versus prior year.
So a pretty substantial improvement in the rate of decline versus prior year and a pretty substantial improvement sequentially as we said in the prepared script of $0.026 Q3 versus Q2.
So there is some tailwind in that number from the improving landed cost performance particularly in plant operations but I would attribute most of that improvement in gross profit to our discipline and our focus on the price line.
So just to follow up on that so you've closed 12 plants.
Where are we in terms of that optimization effort actually flowing through fully in your P&amp;L? So in terms of plant costs per gallon what quarter or when  by what time period should we expect you to be at sort of optimal levels relative to all the actions you've taken in terms of plant costs? Well you should see it in the fourth quarter.
You've seen it consistently decline since third quarter of last year but you should see it in the fourth quarter and going forward.
Our transitory  we've told you in the past that typically our transitory costs will usually hang on for 60 to 90 days.
In some cases it will be 120 days but in most cases it will be out about 90 days.
So we should be seeing that as we speak.
Okay.
And just one last one on free cash flow 2 questions there.
One is can you just talk through sort of the guidance you had initially given on free cash flow versus the latest guidance? And I think the main issue was when you first gave free cash flow guidance I remember you saying most of that related to how the compensation accruals were working out and that was a big year-over-year number.
I'm assuming that's still in place and a lot of it got offset by higher milk cost profitability and also working capital.
So maybe just help us understand what the moving parts have been and are there any one-time issues that we should be looking at like the compensation accrual as we're thinking of free cash flow for next year? We're going to try and stick with the one follow-up so why don't you  so we can make sure everybody gets on the call.
So give us a call later and we'll work through those other detailed questions okay? All right sounds good.
Thanks.
Hi thanks very much.
Hi Rob.
I was just plugging in some different numbers into my Class I formula here.
And I guess my concern is let's say we cut butter prices in half well below $2 but cheese prices are quite high and you said that you expect them to converge but why should we expect cheese prices to converge? I mean cheese demand is very very high.
I guess if dairy costs are coming down everything comes down.
But if we have cheese above $2 we could probably have Class I above $22 $23 per hundredweight for a while.
Is that true?   I think what you're seeing is you're seeing the convergence mainly on an international basis.
So as we look at international prices with cheese and I think once you get through the holiday demand period I think we will see cheese prices start to come off fairly dramatically in December and the end of December.
So I think we'll see the cheese prices come down.
I think they will continue to drive Class I at least through the first quarter and then we'll see what happens after that.
But I think for the time being you should see cheese come off fairly dramatically and it'll be mainly driven by this just overall what I'll characterize as a wall of milk coming at us.
You've got a lot of production that's out there that's coming into the market.
And then you've got EU coming off of quotas you have China and Russia neither one of them  with Russia's band still in place so there's nothing going into Russia.
And then you've got all the cheese that was going to Russia that's hitting the rest of the market.
So there's just lots of different things that are coming together but it's mainly just supply.
There's just a ton of supply out there that's coming at us.
But Rob you put your finger on the reason why it remains difficult to call the industry much beyond one quarter because the exact timing of how those cheese and butter prices will converge whether that's here in the US or US versus international that remains a difficult task and we expect it to probably remain more difficult than it has historically going forward into 2015.
And I guess that leads to my follow-up Chris I think most people think normalized margins are about $0.08 per gallon on an EBIT basis but the industry has proven more volatile than anyone expected.
Have you considered reassessing that normalized margin? Do you have any idea what normalized might be now? Well we've used $0.08 a gallon as a marker from 2013.
That's how the business performed in 2013 and 2013 was a year where there were some tailwinds that were helping the business things like lower bonus payouts for the team here at Dean Foods.
And there were some headwinds that were holding the business back.
So whether 2013 is normalized or not  sorry  whether the $0.08 from 2013 is normalized is kind of yet to be seen but that's the business  that's the path that we're trying to put the business on into 2015 as we begin the process of rebuilding the P&amp;L from where it has been this year.
So we definitely want to take the business back toward that $0.08 rate but the path back in 2015 and beyond is going to continue to have challenges on it because the industry continues to have more than its fair share of struggles.
That makes sense.
Thank you.
Just the overall volatility I don't think is going to change a ton.
<br>Right.
Okay.
Good morning thanks for the question.
Gregg just a question on your plant efficiencies here.
You've closed a dozen facilities so far now.
But I think even with this your run rate utilization is still around 60%.
So why not push forward with even more closures? Is there anything keeping you from doing that at this point? No I think the biggest one right now is just trying to get the network balance back down.
We will continue to go at the network as we have in the past.
One of the things that we're up against John is that they get harder and harder over time.
The complexity of the consolidations gets harder and harder over time.
And I think you get to a point where the distribution costs start to offset the plant closure savings.
So the 12 we did were I wouldn't say easy because all of them have been complex but they sequentially get harder as we went through the system.
So we'll continue to look at the network.
You're right; there continues to be opportunity to improve that utilization the asset utilization.
And I think as we continue to push our OEs in the facilities up that asset utilization will continue to go down a little bit.
So we'll continue to provide more opportunities.
Great and then Chris one follow-up if I could.
How should we think about the year-on-year reduction in 2014 incentive comp? Have you quantified that at all? I can't remember if we put an exact number on that but we have had a bit  it's been equal overlap between 2013 and 2014 because we didn't pay a great bonus in 2013 and that's what we're accruing to again in 2014 John but keep in mind that will be a headwind as we get into 2015.
To the extent that we put a plan in place next year and that plan includes paying out short-term and long-term incentive comp at target and we have favorable overlaps on stock price which drives a piece of the long-term incentive comp that will be a modestly large headwind for the business as we plan next year but still working through the planning process.
Okay thank you Chris.
Thanks Gregg.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question and this ones from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Gregg Tanner Hey Chris.
Hi.
I just had 2 questions for you if I could.
The first one just to follow up on an earlier question we talked a lot about the gross profit per gallon and cost of goods sold.
And you've seen  just to be clear you saw sequential progress in the third quarter and I'm going to assume that's the same for the fourth quarter.
So that's a question.
I guess in relation to that have you said what the total costs are these increased distribution costs related to the plant closures? Like what's the amount that we sort of compare against in 2015? Well I think I would tell you that yes you should see the sequential improvement in the fourth quarter coming out of the third from a supply perspective or at least from a conversion perspective.
And we should see the same thing coming out of logistics.
We have not shared the exact numbers of what that looks like Chris but I would tell you that our landed costs which would include both distribution and our conversion you should expect to see them on a steady decline.
Okay.
And then just in relation to the volume this quarter was there anything unique to new customers? I know you are always trying to find new customers.
Anything that's helping your volume performance? That looks to be quite strong in relation to the category.
No not really.
I mean we haven't  there hasn't been a lot of RFP activity out there so it's been relatively benign.
And I think we picked up a little bit.
We were very happy with our school business and the volume that we gained in our school bidding process.
But outside of that you're seeing some pretty good food service and growth but it's still pretty small.
Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Well thank you all for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods Corporate Web site.
This broadcast is a property of Dean Foods.
Any re-distribution re-transmission or re-broadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Catherine and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our Web site at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's Web site at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at Dean Foods Web site.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our Web site beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the 2013 spin-off and disposition of our remaining investment in WhiteWave common stock the Morningstar divestiture and our early retirement of debt.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among other things disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans capital structure and debt refinancing plans the payments of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me today in the prepared section of the call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our fourth quarter and full year performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on our forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open up the call to your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we reported fourth quarter results that were in line with our previously articulated guidance range.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $26 million and adjusted diluted earnings of $0.08 per share.
As reflected in our results 2014 was clearly the most difficult operating environment we've ever experienced as a company.
On a full year basis we reported adjusted operating income of $36 million and an adjusted loss of $0.14 per share.
During 2014 we were challenged by record high dairy commodity prices softening category volumes mix shift out of our brands and meaningful cost friction [ph].
Accordingly we remain focused on the things that we control; price realization cost productivity and volume at margins that deliver an appropriate return and we continue to see signs of progress.
As we exit 2014 we believe this progress will enable us to begin rebuilding our P&amp;L in 2015 and to deliver our stockholders the various forms of returns that we have committed to provide.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to update you on the dairy commodity landscape.
In 2014 the dairy commodity price levels both in 10-year and absolute terms were unprecedented.
Record high and volatile input cost had a number of meaningful negative effects on our business and our 2014 results including increased volume softness resulting from increases in retail prices increased pressure on our margins especially across our portfolio of branded white milk products volatility for the margin performance of our Class II products and lastly higher costs associated with the various forms of shrink.
As we enter 2015 we're experiencing significant domestic fluid milk price declines and all the following playing a role; solid global milk production growth behind favorable feed cost farmer margins and weather conditions waning demand for dairy and a significant reduction in importing by China and Russia increasing domestic supply that is outpacing demand coupled with seasonal rebuilding of stocks along with significant declines in U.S.
exports as well as the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
We expect solid global supply growth to continue in the short-term and increase when the EU comes off quarter in April.
With the convergence of U.S.
and international prices as well as other factors we expect domestic raw milk costs declines to continue but to moderate as we exit Q1.
Across the other U.S.
dairy commodities including cheese butter and dry milk dramatic cost declines have occurred over the last three months.
In the short-term with the rebuilding of stocks we expect only marginal price movements for these commodities.
As expected high raw milk cost did not abate in the fourth quarter as the $23.56 quarterly average trailed the second quarter historical high average by only $0.07 and was 18% above the year ago levels.
On a full year basis the $23.29 average experienced in 2014 was the highest ever and was 24% above the 2013 average of $18.84.
Class I mover declines which began in harness in December are continuing into early 2015.
Sequentially the Class I mover declined $3.95 per 100 weight to $18.58 in January 2015 and another $2.34 per 100 weight to $16.24 in February of 2015.
We anticipate another decline in March and our projected Q1 2015 Class I mover average of $16.84 per 100 weight represents a 29% decline sequentially and a 25% decline on a year-over-year basis.
To put this into context using our estimate for March's Class I price the cost of raw milk will have declined $0.72 per gallon since November.
Declining raw milk costs especially with this magnitude should provide some support to our category and additional tailwinds to our business.
Turning to pricing during the quarter the margin over milk or spread between the Class I mover in the retail price of private label gallons moved in line with the Class I mover changes.
In Q4 the Class I mover average increased a penny per gallon and the margin over milk decreased from $1.39 per gallon in Q3 to $1.38 per gallon.
While Q4 margin over milk continued to hover at historic lows it's noteworthy that retailers utilized the opportunity to buoy their profits in June and again in December when presented with month-over-month Class I mover declines.
For December in conjunction with the $0.13 per gallon decline in Class I mover the margin over milk increased $0.12 to a $1.47 per gallon.
During 2014 retailers with an eye towards the volume demand destruction clearly chose the private label price point very consciously and did not pass on to the consumers the full impact of the commodity inflation they experienced.
However prudent and thoughtful retail pricing was it failed to offset the tepid consumer demand or prevent category softness.
As we enter 2015 and experience continuing significant raw milk price declines we expect the margin over milk to increase further as retailers restore greater profitability to the dairy case.
But it's uncertain what product pricing strategies the retailer will pursue for private label white milk and how retailers will affect the timing and magnitude of their margin expansion through price point changes.
It's also uncertain how the related consumer purchasing dynamics will be impacted.
Our volume performance continues to be negatively impacted by the record high input costs in places at retail.
In the fourth quarter total volumes across all products were 683 million gallons which represents a 2% year-over-year decline.
On a full year on adjusted basis total volumes for all products declined 4% to 2.7 billion gallons due to the partial loss of private label business with a significant customer and declines within our Class II products.
Excluding only the last RFP business full year total volumes declined 1%.
In the fourth quarter specifically within fluid milk volumes on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods declined 2%.
For the full year unadjusted fluid milk volumes declined 4% on a year-over-year basis including the impacts of the RFP-driven volume loss in 2013.
Excluding the impact of the RFP our fluid milk volumes for the full year decreased 0.6% year-over-year.
For the quarter our volume declines were most visible within the large format channel and across our branded white milk portfolio.
During the quarter on a year-over-year basis we experienced 4% growth in the food service channel.
The USDA recently reported industry fluid volumes through November and restated certain published data for prior periods.
Industry fluid volume declines increased sequentially from a 3.5% decline in the second quarter to a 3.7% decline in the third quarter.
As compared to the second quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volume remained flat at 35.9% during the third quarter.
For quarter-to-date ended November industry fluid milk volumes declined approximately 4.5% year-over-year on an unadjusted basis.
So on the same quarter-to-date basis the in-fluid share increased to 35.6% from 35.4% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Fluid milk cost remained elevated during the quarter and continue to negatively impact the overall health of the category by causing volume declines beyond what we could consider a normal trajectory for the category.
While the full quarter impact is not yet known pending USDA data the effect of operation actions appears to be manifesting itself in our share performance.
On a sequential basis we experienced a decline in our share through November.
While we are pleased with our volume and margin performance we remain very concerned about the overall health of the category.
With raw milk cost remaining elevated in Q4 we continue to make market-driven placing architecture decision associated with price points or thresholds at retail and price gaps to private label for our branded white milk products.
We also continued to focus on striking the right balance between net price realization and domain destruction.
Within the grocery channel at retail our brands averaged $4.8 per gallon in both Q3 and Q4 up $0.24 versus Q4 2013.
Additionally the price gap between our brands and private label were expanded 6% year-over-year from $0.62 to $0.66 this year.
These higher price points and price gaps versus private label continue to put our branded portfolio under pressure.
The trade now from our brand to private label white milk especially if it's not our private label we produce was a headwind to our P&amp;L all year.
And on a year-over-year basis our branded white milk volumes were down 5% for the quarter and 4% for the full year.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix since the third quarter of 2013 when raw milk prices began their steady and steep climb our brand mix has sequentially declined every quarter.
For Q4 we averaged just under 35.5% branded.
Further on a year-over-year basis our share of branded white milk at retail declined 4% for the quarter and 1% for the year.
We believe our portfolio of brands is a competitive advantage and compliments our customer set and leverages the national scale of our network in one of the nation's largest best-in-class refrigerated direct store delivery systems.
We believe we have a loyal consumer following and with the declining raw milk cost that we're experiencing we should see an increase in the mix and margins of our branded white milk.
Moving to the flavored milk side overall on a year-over-year basis our flavored milk volumes were down 2% for the quarter and 3% for the full year.
IRI data indicate that for the year ending '14-'15 flavored milk category volume was down 5.5% in MULO.
Declines are being predominantly driven within the large format channel.
We believe the flavored milk category weakness reflects consumer reaction to continued high prices at retail as opposed to a fundamental shift in consumer trends.
With respect to our national brand TruMoo our coast-to-coast extended shelf life and corrugated capability continues to enable distribution growth into warehouse channels beyond our DSD networks.
In 2014 our MULO ACV grew from 65.1% to 73.3%.
We've been particularly effective in penetrating the C-store channel with our higher margins single serve line of TruMoo products.
And in 2014 we grew our TruMoo C-store volume by 8.6%.
For the year TruMoo's net sales growth across all channels was 3% and 4.2% in retail channels.
As we continue to grow the TruMoo brand we're pleased with our innovation efforts and our line extensions into new categories including our new on-trend TruMoo protein plus products.
In matter of months TruMoo protein has secured 37.5% of retail shelves and a 10% share on the refrigerated protein beverage segment.
TruMoo protein was voted the top new diary product of 2014 in a poll conducted by diary foods magazine.
As we look to 2015 and beyond we'll continue to invest in TruMoo growth with new consumer advertising new flavor offerings and exciting promotions during key seasonal windows.
We believe we are the low cost producer today and we expect to further extend our advantage through cost reduction and efficiency activities across the business.
We will continue to drive our cost productivity agenda and work toward operational excellence.
Our size breadth and capabilities give us opportunities to reduce cost in ways that are difficult for our competitors to match.
In 2014 we completed the last of the plant closures associated with our accelerated network optimization; an effort that resulted in closure of 12 plants over an 18-month timeframe.
While we incurred end-year transitory costs in both our production and distribution activities we have reduced excess capacity in our network and driven asset realization and efficiencies higher.
In addition through our other cost savings initiatives when fully realized we expect the cost savings and efficiency gains from these plant closures to help offset the volume de-leverage in our plants and inflation in our business.
Looking forward we expect to return to more historical levels of network optimization and in January we announced another plant closure.
Within logistics we continue to have a great deal of opportunity to also help offset inflate volume de-leverage and what we call the "Distribution penalty " for the increase in miles driven resulting from plant closure.
We believe we have several years of opportunity ahead of us to drive meaningful savings within logistics.
Across our total landed costs the allin operating cost of our plant logistics assets and personnel the trend of reducing the rate of year-over-year landed cost per gallon increases take a step backwards in Q4.
Notwithstanding the aforementioned distribution penalty I'm disappointed in our overall landed cost performance this quarter.
But since it occurred in areas I deem controllable I'm confident we can make the requisite corrections going forward.
We reported adjusted operated income of 26 million for the quarter a 22 million year-over-year decrease versus last year's 48 million.
Sequentially operating income improved 16 million or $2.3 a gallon.
The progress we're making behind price realization is evident.
First for Q4 gross margin per gallon improved 2.9% sequentially.
And second versus Q4 2013 despite Class I products being up 18% and volumes down 2% our gross profit margin per gallon was up 1%.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our financial results Chris.
Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q4 and full year income statement results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year ago quarter total volume declined 2% in Q4 despite elevated Class I costs with the effect of pricing actions and favorable cost declines associated with our Class II products our net price realization improved.
However the full benefit was partially offset due to fixed cost de-leverage and as Gregg mentioned certain challenges within our operating plans.
Adjusted gross profit of $443 million in Q4 represents a 4 million or less than 1% declined versus the year ago quarter.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased $18 million from the year ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $8 million primarily due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into the areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including an increase in health benefit costs.
SG&amp;A expenses increased $10 million over 2013 primarily due to the variable component of long-term incentive compensation that is tied to our stock price and the overlap of a true up to an estimated liability.
Well the SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive compensation were up $3 million versus year ago levels; they were down after factoring the prior year true up.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income decline of $22 million to $26 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense decreased 5 million from the prior year period.
This decrease is a result of a continued benefit from our successful late 2013 repurchase of a portion of our higher coupon senior notes offset by higher debt levels.
This in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded at Q4 adjusted net income of $7 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.08.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $67 million a 24% decline from $88 million in the prior year period.
On a full year basis gross profit decreased 10% due to the combination of record high dairy high prices softening category volumes mix shift out of our brands and meaningful cost friction.
Operating expenses which have been trending better year-over-year through Q3 increased $7 million or 0.5% versus year ago level.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $17 million primarily due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding close facilities as well as transitory costs associated with plant closures.
With incentive compensation essentially flat year-over-year SG&amp;A expenses declined $7 million as we maintained vigorous cost control focus during 2014 and offset $5 million of incremental advertising.
Excluding incentive comp and advertising SG&amp;A cost declined $10 million or 2%.
In total we experienced the year-over-year operating income decline of $129 million to $36 million.
Below operating income a $38 million decline in interest expense coupled with the normalized adjusted 38% tax rate resulted in a full year adjusted net loss of $13 million or a loss of $0.14 per share.
For 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $196 million down 50% versus prior year adjusted EBITDA of $389 million.
Full year results are reflective of just how difficult an operating environment we've been in but after another quarter of sequentially improving gross profit and operating income per gallon and with what we're seeing so far this year we believe we have the business headed in the right direction.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow; at the end of the fourth quarter total net debt outstanding was $901 million down from $948 million at the end of Q3.
This decrease was primarily facilitated by improved free cash flow performance.
On an all cash netted basis our Q4 total leverage ratio was 4.48 times net debt-to-EBITDA which was in compliance with our covenant maximum of 5.25 times.
Also in December we redeemed all outstanding senior notes due 2018.
With regard to overall capital structure during the first half of 2015 subject to market conditions and the receipt of appropriate approvals we intent to optimize our liquidity and strengthen our financial position by opportunistically refinancing or otherwise addressing certain of our existing long-term debt including our 7% senior notes due June 1 2016.
The specific timing structure and terms of such refinancing transactions have not yet been finalized.
Full year adjusted free cash flow was $25 million down $35 million versus prior year.
Adjustments primarily related to current year tax payments or receipts associated with last year's Morningstar divestiture and White Wave spin off and the net of tax effect of our $19 million Tennessee litigation payment the second of four annual installments.
In addition during 2014 cash proceeds from asset sales totaled over $27 million.
During the quarter we were able to improve our working capital levels from Q3.
As a result our cash conversion cycle reflected better sequential DSO and DIO performance caused by a return to more normal receivable levels versus Q3 and lower inventory caused by falling Class II butterfat prices.
Our Q4 invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down to $479 million providing a $75 million source of cash compared to Q3's $58 million use of cash.
Finally I want to take a few minutes to walk you through the financial impact of the material declines in the price of diesel.
First diesel is a component of our pricing mechanisms for a majority of our business.
So declining diesel cost will cause our logistics cost and our revenue to decline in tandem.
Second based on financial hedges and forward supply agreements we're underwater versus forward curve by about $14 million.
Finally we're expecting third-party freight cost to increase in total due to the current labor shortage of drivers.
All in while there will be some moving parts within the P&amp;L we're not expecting the diesel price decline to result in a material net impact to the overall P&amp;L in 2015.
With that I'll now turn the call back over to Gregg for some commentary on our balance of year outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris let me give you some perspective on the forward outlook.
In regard to 2015 given the structural cost we have removed from our system and the multiple inherent benefits that come with cheaper raw milk we expect our 2015 financial results to be substantially better than 2014.
However we believe there are several key factors or variables which could have a material impact on our full year 2015 results and these factors remain difficult to quantify.
While we are currently experiencing rapid and significant cost declines across the entire U.S.
dairy commodity complex we believe the dairy commodity environment continues to be volatile and unpredictable over the mid-term.
Industry volumes have declined above the long-term norms as we come out over the long period of record high dairy commodity costs we lack any historical data to predict how retailers and consumers will behave.
We're also uncertain as to whether the health of the category will improve or if it does when and to what extent.
And we continue to operate in an industry with over-capacity and declining dairy commodity costs which may heighten the competitive environment.
Accordingly for now we are going to continue to provide specific guidance for the upcoming quarter only.
In regards to Q1 I'd start by pointing out that compared to Q4 there is a mix shift that will impact gross margins and a decrease in selling days which will impact volumes as well as inflation for employee wage and benefit cost as we rollover into a New Year.
We expect volume declines in Q1 of low to mid-single digits compared to last year.
With the dairy complex dropping precipitously we expect a tailwind to the margin pull for our branded fluid milk portfolio and our shrink cost.
We will continue our cost reduction efforts to reduce our landing cost and offset known headwinds such as annual inflation associated with our non-dairy inputs and increase in employee wage and benefit costs.
And lastly largely within SG&amp;A we expect to face higher short-term incentive cost if targeted performance levels are achieved.
We also anticipate higher long-term incentive costs as we overlap the P&amp;L effect of LTI Instruments that are tied to the stock price over current year operating performance.
In total incentive compensation is about $10 million a quarter of headwind.
All told we expect sequential EPS improvement to continue with Q1 EPS of $0.12 to $0.22 per share.
Finally we expect CapEx to be approximately $150 million for the full year.
The largest portion of our business the fluid milk category is a $20 billion category at retail because of its ubiquity and frequency of purchase it's an important category for retailers and represents one of the most profitable areas of the store for the typical grocer.
With increasing demand for locally sourced protein dense foods with clean labels milk is uniquely positioned to meet these growing consumer needs.
In a recent study over 70% of consumers indicated locally sourced products on important consideration when making shopping decisions.
Another recent NPD study indicated protein is the most sorted after food ingredient by both adults and teens.
In 2015 as an industry through MilkPep over $60 million will be invested across TV print and digital platforms through minding consumers that milk is one of the most naturally occurring protein dense foods available.
There is also a social media campaign is feeling many of the miss associated with the category.
As the category leader we need to go above and beyond industry-led growth initiatives and do more to bring consumers back to the category.
In summary we're executing a clear and focused vision for our Company to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great tasting dairy products at every occasion.
And with America's increasing focus on health and wellness I believe milk with its clean label is well positioned as a fresh delicious source of nutrition and protein for consumers of all ages.
As we exit 2014 and enter 2015 we're encouraged by the sequential improvement in our operating performance.
With the progress achieved in our cost reduction initiatives we believe we are very well positioned and are excited about the future direction of the business.
Our customers include many of the largest and best food retailers and food service companies and distributors in the country.
We believe our relative scale of full adjusted sustainable cost service and quality advantages allowing us to more effectively service these customers versus our competitors.
We will continue to drive improved efficiency in capability across the organization to begin rebuilding our P&amp;L in 2015 and position the Company for long term success and be a sustainable creator of value for our shareholders.
Lastly I also want to thank all of our employees for their hard work as they continue to focus and execute our agenda while never compromising on quality safety or service.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The question is from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
Good morning Eric.
I guess my question goes to the excess capacity still in the industry.
You obviously took out a lot over the last 18 months.
It sounds Gregg like you continue to do that.
We don't have a lot of visibility into what remains a fragmented competitive set.
Can you just give us a sense of -- as to roughly where you think capacity utilization is? And I suppose if it's still quite low that's one of the things you are concerned about? Yes I mean Eric I think it's -- when I think about what we've done in taking 10% to 15% of our capacity out and I think we've seen a little more de-leverage with the volume doing what it's done and what we had expected so we're probably looking at somewhere in the low 60s.
And again it's so dependent upon different regions of the country and we're have locations or not because there are certain locations that we have that are going to have considerably lower than that from the utilization perspective obvious states like Montana where we might be in the 30-40% type utilization but we don't see an opportunity necessarily to consolidate in that area.
And then there's other parts of the country where we'll see it up in the 75% to 80% range which is a range with fresh product where we would like to see it be.
So I think from our perspective we are continuing to do what we need to do to try and give the utilizations and the asset utilizations up to a much higher level.
As far as what the competitors are doing you can read it as well as I can read it there's -- we'll see what happens as time goes by.
Okay.
And then just as my one follow-up I was a little bit surprised that your -- albeit short term but I was a little bit surprised that you are looking for such softness in volume in the first quarter.
Is there anything specifically going on there? Or have you just see the category I don't know weaken surprisingly a bit or competition is a little bit greater as we have started the new year? And then I will pass it on.
Thank you.
It's all right.
Thanks Eric.
No I think its just playing off of the trends.
If you look in second quarter we were down 3-2 3-5 the third quarter was down 3-7.
The fourth quarter looks to be projected at 4-5 for the category.
I think these high prices have just -- we crossed price points that we didn't anticipate.
We got above $4 in some cases.
I think our average in the fourth quarter was $4.08 a gallon.
We're not sure because we are in uncharted waters what's going to happen once these prices start coming down whether or not or how fast the consumer is going to come back.
So I think what you're seeing is -- are just playing off of the trends that we've seen through the first or the last three quarters of Q4 and moving into Q1.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Farha.
Good morning Farha.
And when you look at what retailers are doing at retail you've had maybe two months so far of lower milk prices.
Are they dropping their private label milk prices down? Well I think if you look at December as we said in our prepared remarks it dropped -- their margin over milk went from $1.39 to $1.47.
And so if you take that into account with the drop of prices that has occurred it would say that they did not pass along their reduction in December.
We don't have the January data yet but I think we are starting to see a little bit of a softening as we go into January but until we get the data it's a tough call to make.
Okay and would you view them dropping the price of private label to spur volume as a good thing for Dean Foods? Or would you see them dropping pricing so therefore you have to take branded milk pricing down as a bad thing for Dean Foods? Well I think as long as we maintain our gaps appropriately.
As we talked earlier you got $0.62 a year ago and now we're at $0.66.
So I think anything -- if they drop them down our margin on branded goes down but as long as we can maintain our gaps I think that's a positive for us.
Obviously the higher the prices are the more margin we get out of it as it comes down.
But I think it's more important at this point that we get the consumer back in the category because that's probably my bigger concern is the category more so than -- because I think our price realization and the work that we've done on pricing has worked well for us and I think the categories are a bigger concern at this point.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Brett Hundley from BB&amp;T Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the question guys.
Brett sure.
So Gregg just going back to that real quick I certainly understand your positive outlook for milk as being a part of consumers gravitating towards protein more and more.
And then just in trying to jive that with your near-term concerns on consumer takeaway overall health of the category et cetera can you just maybe give some ideas or let us know how you are thinking about how that bridge occurs and how the company is at the forefront of moving from the weak environment that we have been at to milk being a more central part of U.S.
consumers gravitating towards protein? Yes I think it's one -- Brett it's a constant balance for us in trying to get our price realization right and make sure that we're dropping the prices accordingly to just to try to get the price points back to more historical levels.
If history were to repeat itself even though we're in new territory the category in general was typically down 1%-2% for a long time until we reached this peak in pricing.
So if that were to occur I think it's going to take the pricing that we're seeing in the marketplace today.
I also think it's going to take us getting on air and talking to people about the benefits of milk.
I'm very excited about the MilkPep campaign that we currently have underway.
And I think when I talked about the protein dense nature of milk but it's also one of the most cost effective protein sources.
So on a per gram basis of protein dairy is about as cost effective as anything out there.
So all of that together tells me that we ought to start to see the categories start to come back but as far as trying to predict when and how much that's a tough call.
I just think we're going to continue to press on with TruMoo protein.
We think that's on trend and it's obviously proven out with the success we've had in the marketplace and we'll continue to work on other innovations and products that will align us well.
But again you talk about what consumers are looking for and they're looking for a clean label they're looking for locally sourced and they're looking for fresh.
Boy I can't think of a better product out there than milk.
So I just got to believe that if the trends continue with the consumer wanting dense protein at a cost effective way I just got to believe we're going to see this thing start to come back.
Okay and maybe looking at the flip side of the coin on the cost side can you go back through some of the potential landed cost improvements that you want to drive ahead? And can you maybe talk specifically to some of the things that are in your control and timing wise when shareholders can see those improvements start to come back? Yes I think you will see them start to come back in Q1.
If you think about what happened in Q4 from a cost perspective that slowed down the decline that we've seen for about 5-6 straight quarters we had to do with a multitude of things but the two bigger things were some projects that were behind schedule from what we had anticipated in the fourth quarter.
Those will come back.
In fact one of them as already been completed and the other one is on track.
We're back on track now.
And then the other one was is as we went into December we had some labor costs that was out of whack that we had to get back in line.
So I think what you'll see in the first quarter is you'll see that start to come back off and get more in line with the trend that we had seen before.
Thank you.
The next question is from line of Alexia Howard from Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You allude a couple of times to a bit of uncertainty around the outlook for the milk prices.
How concerned are you about the New Zealand drought situation and the drought situation in California at the moment? Well Alexia it's one of those things that when you look at the total production in New Zealand you would say it probably shouldn't have as big as impact as what it does.
But at the same time the uncertainty for us I'll just use one example for you; as we looked at the New Zealand news when it came out two or three weeks ago the impact that it had on butter prices butter prices in the last three weeks are up 17.5% just on Fonterra coming out and saying that their back half production was going to be down 1.5%-3%.
So that just leads to -- it just causes me to hesitate a bit when I thought we were on a consistent roll down that it may flip back up a little bit here in the meantime.
But if you look at the broader long-term effect with the EU coming of a quarter in April and we've seen reports that say that Germany's cow count is up 23 000 head the Netherland's cow count is up 33 000 head the U.S.
cow count from a year ago was up 100 000.
You start adding all that together we still haven't seen China come back into the market.
So from an export perspective exports are up 7.5% and it's been on a consistent decline.
You got a U.S.
strong dollar.
A lot of those things work to say that we ought to see this continue to go down but I think it going to mitigate to some degree as we go from Q1 to Q2 and then in the second half of the year.
Great.
And then as my follow-up could I ask you is there any commentary you could give us or any help that you can give us on the relative profitability of branded milk versus private label either in terms of cents per gallon or differences in pricing? Just any sort of indications about what the gap there is would be incredibly helpful.
Thank you.
And I will pass it on.
I'll turn that one over to Chris and let him speak to that.
Yes that's a good question Alexia.
So obviously as you know our brands are more profitable than our private label offering.
The challenge is any kind of meaningful averages because those differences are very different across the different brands.
So I'd say using a factor of in some cases 50% 75% more profitable is the range but again it's very different so.
So the mix of which brands we're talking about relative to private label is also important component as well.
And actually just quickly going back on your question on New Zealand it's probably helpful to keep in mind that in the fourth quarter of their growing season so in the March April May quarter in a typically year New Zealand's production in that fourth quarter of their growing season is only about 18% of the full year.
So clearly the fourth quarter under index is less than fair share.
So to the extent that there is a drought starting to emerge it's in a seasonal lower period of production.
So we'll probably have less of an impact then if the draught were in the heavier kind of in their spring flush.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Yes I understand the decision not to give annual guidance and given everything that Dean has been through but you do have some consensus numbers that are pretty high up there around $0.90.
And I guess I just wanted to know Gregg if you can say whether this is still within the realm of reason to have expectations that high.
I mean most people are basing it on kind of a return to normal for EBIT cents per gallon.
And the industry has changed in the last couple of years.
So is there anything you can say about whether it makes sense to at least have that as a potential scenario to get back to that normal level? Well I think what we talked about in our prepared statement and that really is all about we got to make sure that what we're doing right now is sequentially continuing to move back towards that.
But I think 2015 is much more of a rebuilding process as we try to rebuild our P&amp;L.
And I to say do we believe that $0.08 is still a good OI [ph] per gallon on a long-term basis absolutely.
And I like the sequential improvement we're seeing quarter-to-quarter.
So I don't think there is anything in the marketplace today that tells us that overtime we change it back to those types of levels.
Maybe a follow-up to that is you talked a lot about this distribution penalty.
That is a result I suppose of having to close some plants and reducing the territory of your coverage.
How long is that distribution penalty going to continue to be an issue as you close another plant and you I presume try to reduce drivers on the road as well? I think yes.
I mean what you try to do in those environments is I think what we're seen a bit right now is just trying to get the facilities settled down once we've taken on additional volume as we've consolidate it and continue to work on their efficiencies.
But from a logistics perspective we continue to work every day to be more efficient effective in each of those routes.
So if you think about terms -- of being a part between 250 and 300 miles around the given facility you're always looking to increase your effectiveness of those routes.
That means you're going to probably look at frequency.
You're going to look at drop sizes and continue to optimize your routes system.
So we are always looking at our routes and how do we make them more effective and efficient.
So I don't think -- you'll see that for a while.
We talked about transitory costs being 90 to 120 days at the shut of facility down to kind of work through it.
So as we continue to shut facilities down there will always be some lag in that process.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Amit Sharma from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Amit.
Good morning Amit.
Chris thanks for providing the color on diesel.
Can you please do the same for resin as well? Just give us an idea of what is the impact or what is the likely impact of lower resin costs? And then did I hear it correctly that the compensation -- higher compensation penalties are going to be sort of equally distributed throughout the quarters at $10 million or is it more lumpy than that? And then I have a follow-up after that.
No.
That's correct.
The compensation negative overlap is approximately equal per quarter I think we said 10 million that's a good number to work from and not a lot of lumpiness.
The lumpiness to the extent there is any will be more associated with the LPI component which will tie to stock price performance.
On resin if you go back and look at plastic news kind of one of the trade rags that publishes over the last six or eight quarters I think resin has been sequentially up every quarter.
So unlike some of the more recent phenomenon you've seen and some of the energy complex as quoted by an industry publication "Resin prices have been climbing." So that's a dynamic that we have billion dealing with.
I think our forward outlook on resin would be stable but probably we don't see the same benefit in resin that the broader energy complex is seeing maybe in diesel because the resin that we work with is more of natural gas feedstock than a diesel feedstock.
All right.
That's great there.
And Gregg just wanted to go back to the branded portfolio.
And it looks like your white milk regional branded portfolio is still struggling in terms of either margins or volume.
So as you look forward I mean what do you need to do to get a better balance between not suffering on the volume side and yet maintain margins or recover margins from what you have seen over the last 12 months or so? Well I think first and foremost is as we -- as the prices come down trying to manage our gap to that closer to the historical $0.60 range versus $0.66.
I think will be helpful.
And I think it's interesting because you look at that I mean historically when milk prices are up our brand mix goes down.
And it usually runs somewhere between 35% and 37% 38%.
And that's -- so we're on the low end of that now.
I think you'll see that start to come back as we get -- as prices start to go down historically that's what we've seen.
But again we're in the -- a bit on pressure than in territory here.
So I would guess that would be the biggest thing that we'll see.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Just maybe in terms of a bit more clarity on the Q1 outlook and particularly the low end of the range in that you mentioned the volume declines embedded in your guidance but also alluded to some other factors.
So I would think the transitory costs are less of a headwind.
The shrink cost should be beneficial.
So is there anything worth knowing that would keep you at $0.12 in EPS in Q1? No I think it's just the uncertainty in the category.
So volume is going to be the big driver for us in Q1.
And I think outside of that most of the other things that we mentioned as far as helping us sequentially in Q3 to Q4 I think will continue from Q4 into Q1.
Okay.
And then Gregg just one follow-up if I could.
You mentioned the excess capacity still in your network and we have been seeing some of these smaller milk processors out there manufacturing private label plant-based beverages almond milk for retailers.
If I could just ask what is your opportunity and interest maybe in also running some of those products through your facilities to maybe better leverage those assets.
John we're always looking for opportunities to increase our effectiveness.
So we are always looking for opportunities whether it's to run other types of products or more dairy through each of our facilities.
So yes we are always open to finding ways to increase that.
And the same goes on the distribution side we are always looking for cost effective ways to increase our drop sizes or fill our trucks up.
One of the issues that we constantly have is that our trucks are not full and one of the big initiatives that we are on right now is how do we fill those trucks up? </strong>gentlemen.
There are no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Gregg Tanner for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all again for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and have a great day.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods' website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information containing those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me today in the prepared section are Mr.
Gregg Tanner our CEO; and Chris Bellairs our CFO.
Gregg will start us off with a review of the first quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we released our first quarter results which contained several significant highlights.
First we reported first quarter earnings that exceeded the top-end of our previous guidance.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $52 million and adjusted diluted earnings of $0.24 per share.
Importantly this marks the third consecutive quarter of sequentially improving operating results and the highest operating income performance since Q2 of 2013.
Second in the first quarter we strengthened our balance sheet and improved our liquidity.
We enhanced the composition of our capital structure as we executed our comprehensive debt refinancing.
We now have a capital structure that is more appropriate for a company of our size and industry position and gives us the flexibility to fund operational and strategic objectives.
And with improving operating results and strong free cash flow performance our total leverage improved more than a full turn.
And third last week we announced the launch of DairyPure the country's first and largest fresh white milk national brand.
Having successfully launched TruMoo and TruMoo Protein we are proud of our track record of innovation and believe DairyPure will provide benefits to consumers our category our customers and our company.
When combined it's clear to me that we're changing the game with operational excellence disciplined financial stewardship and innovation as we extend our leadership position in the dairy industry.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I'm going to take a few moments to update you on the dairy commodity landscape.
We are projecting that in the near-term the global fundamentals should remain overall supportive to our business against the backdrop of slowing supply growth and rebalancing demand.
Total milk production of the top seven exporters is expected to continue to increase through 2015 albeit at a slower pace as compared to the robust growth experienced in 2014.
We continue to see ongoing supply momentum in the U.S.
as increases to both the domestic herd and yields more than offset the impact from the continued drought in California.
We see EU production increasing 1% in the second half of 2015 with the quota system now lifted.
This comes on top of last year's impressive milk production total.
Even New Zealand is anticipated to have a relatively flat year-over-year milk solids production level for their full season production following improved moisture levels in March.
Finally China also appears to have improved its domestic supply-to-demand balance following heavy dairy investment.
On the demand side together China and Russia are driving the first demand-driven contraction in international trade since 2009.
In Q1 Chinese import demand for powdered products remained significantly below year prior levels.
The Russian import demand is being vigorously enforced and has disrupted trade flows leading to increase competition in several key international markets.
We have therefore seen significant declines in U.S.
exports exacerbated by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar which is leading to a more normal seasonal rebuilding of domestic dairy stocks this year.
On balance despite supply growth slowing due to falling prices and a challenging overlap with weakening currencies and demand side constraints we have seen price declines at the GDT auction over the past few rounds which could result in reduced global prices in the upcoming months.
Class I prices are expected to remain relatively steady in Q2 2015 as domestic dairy commodity prices across the complex remain mixed.
Heavy inventories and reduced export opportunities have led the continued declines in non-fat dry milk prices in Q1.
For Class II and Class III strong domestic demand and weaker than expected inventory growth have kept the domestic butter market supported in Q1 2015.
And increased domestic demand has largely been offset by increased production and reduced export volumes helping lead to relatively steady domestic cheddar prices.
We expect seasonal inventory building to continue in Q2 as U.S.
milk production reaches peak levels.
Increased inventory levels and a significant gap between domestic and international prices should mean diminished export opportunities in the second half.
For the second half we expect Class I raw milk cost to gradually and sequentially increase but the global milk production growth and reduced import demand should mute significant upside price risk to the Class I price.
However given the multitude of factors that influence the dairy commodity environment we believe prices remain volatile.
As expected raw milk cost declined meaningfully in the first quarter and the $16.79 per hundred-weight quarterly average represents a decline of $6.80 per hundred-weight or 29% sequentially and a decline of $5.59 per hundred-weight or 25% on a year-over-year basis.
Putting the first quarter's phasing into context on a per gallon basis the cost of raw milk declined $0.34 in January $0.20 in February and another $0.6 in March.
The magnitude and phasing of the cost declines was one of the main reasons why we believe momentum would build as we move through the quarter.
From a nearing quarter perspective raw milk costs are leveling and stabilizing.
April's per hundred-weight raw milk cost of $15.50 marked the sixth consecutive month of declines but represents only a $0.005 per gallon decline sequentially.
May's announced price of $15.83 per hundred-weight represents about a $0.03 per gallon increase sequentially and we expect a similar per gallon increase in June.
Turning to pricing during the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class I Mover and the retail price of private label gallons in the grocery channel generally increased as Class I M over declined.
Overall in Q1 the Class I Mover average decreased $0.60 per gallon and the margin over milk increased from $1.38 per gallon in Q4 to $1.70 per gallon.
As compared to December's margin over milk exit rate of $1.47 the Q1 average increased $0.23 over a year-ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective or in Q1 as we experienced significant raw milk declines we witnessed retailers restoring greater profitability to the dairy case.
But within the quarter the monthly margin over milk change didn't correlate with the monthly Class I declines I previously discussed.
It's noteworthy that in March while raw milk costs declined $0.06 a gallon the margin over milk actually declined $0.02 a gallon as retailers started to slowly pass back to consumers some of the cost declines that they had retained in January and February.
March's margin over milk exit rate was $1.71 per gallon.
In the quarter our volume performance continued to be impacted by high albeit dropping prices at retail.
In the first quarter total volumes across all products of 662 million gallons were in line with our expectation and represent a 3.3% year-over-year decline in a modest deterioration from the second half of 2014 run rate.
In the first quarter specifically within fluid milk volumes on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods declined 3% as compared to year-ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective volumes were down across all channels except food service and especially within the large-format channel.
In the quarter retail prices for private label white milk didn't decline penny-for-penny with raw milk cost declines.
And we were able to realize price for our branded products especially in large-format channel.
So Q1 volumes reflect largely what we expected: that the impetus for meaningful fluid milk volume improvement would be price declines at retail.
In Q1 retailers did not effect material price declines as they appear focused on first restoring a certain amount of profitability through their pricing actions.
Based on USDA reported data for December industry fluid milk volumes improved sequentially from a 3.7% decline in the third quarter to a 3.4% decline in the fourth quarter.
And as compared to the third quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volume declined 20 basis points to 35.7% in the fourth quarter.
January is the only month the USDA has reported for 2015 to date.
For the month of January industry fluid milk volumes have continued to marginally improve with a 3.1% decline year-over-year on an unadjusted basis.
On this same basis Dean Foods share decreased to 35.5% from 35.7% in the first quarter of 2014.
The overall health of the category remains an area of concern.
Although the margin over milk has increased with our expectations phenomenal raw milk cost fluctuations in Q2 we don't know if consumers will see significant price declines at retail in the near-term.
While recent RFP activity has resulted in net customer wins and incremental volume that is coming online we expect to continue to experience volume declines that are roughly in line with recent category declines in fluid milk and that will drive low-single-digit declines for our total volume performance in Q2.
As I have mentioned before we expected soft category volumes in Q1 with raw milk cost declining rapidly but retailers only marginally reflecting lower private label retail prices on shelf.
So within our branded portfolio we likewise primarily focused on net price realization.
And because of channel dynamics the benefits occurred almost exclusively within the large format channel.
Within the grocery channel at retail our brands average $3.94 at retail down $0.03 versus Q1 of 2014 and down $0.14 versus Q4 of 2014.
This decline also includes the disproportionate impact of certain large retailers choosing to significantly lower their branded milk prices at retail.
As a result even with almost a $0.50 per gallon year-over-year raw milk cost decline the price gap between our brands and private label expanded 26% year-over-year from $0.62 to $0.78.
The end result on a year-over-year basis was that our branded white milk portfolio returned to levels of profitability in line with our longer term norms despite volumes being down 3% year-over-year and in line with the category.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q1 we averaged 35.3%.
This compares to a 35.4% brand mix in Q4 of 2015 and 35.1% in Q1 2014.
Given the widening price gaps at retail we are very pleased with our branded mix performance.
It speaks volumes to our brand equity and loyal consumer following.
Moving to the flavored milk side overall on a year-over-year basis our flavored milk volumes were down less than 1% for the quarter a noticeable improvement to recent quarterly trends.
With respect to TruMoo our flavored milk national brand it's a $700 million brand across all channels.
Since its launch in 2011 TruMoo's ACV has grown more than 18 points to 73% as we begin offering TruMoo in extended shelf life format.
Over the same timeframe TruMoo has gained five points of share.
It's the number one flavored milk brand with nearly four times the volume share of its nearest competitor Nesquik.
In regards to our national launch of TruMoo Protein Plus our products have secured 37.5% of retail shelves and almost a 9% share of the protein-enhanced beverage category.
Highlighting the achievements and successes of TruMoo provides the perfect segue to DairyPure.
As most of you know last week we launched the first and largest fresh white milk national brand DairyPure.
We believe DairyPure is a game changer for us and that it will reinvigorate the dairy case.
As the largest milk processor in the country and backed by a national footprint we believe Dean Foods is the only company that could implement a launch of this magnitude.
Our company has done this before.
We launched TruMoo in 2011 and it now has 84% brand awareness nationally and is the largest flavored milk brand in the U.S.
Our success with TruMoo gives us confidence that today's consumer appreciates a national brand presence and promise that is endorsed by the regional brands they know and love.
DairyPure is a winning proposition and provides a number of clear benefits to consumers our category our customers and the company.
For the consumer DairyPure is on trend with their desire for a clean label local fresh protein and nutrient-packed products.
DairyPure isn't just a new label; it's a set of messages to consumers that dispels some myths about white milk.
We call it our Five-Point Purity Promise which states that our farmers pledged not to use artificial growth hormones we test all milk for antibiotics it's continually quality tested to ensure purity it's only from cows fed a healthy diet and it's cold-shipped from our local dairy.
Consumers have told us they care about these things and while our milk has had these qualities for years now we're able to talk about it on a national platform.
DairyPure is also an easy transition for consumers building on regional white milk brands they are familiar with in value.
During 2014 we transitioned our regional milk labels to a common look and feel to ease the transition to a national brand.
To be clear those labels now carry the DairyPure name prominently displayed alongside the regional brand logo.
For the category our national brand fills a void in the dairy industry.
DairyPure provides a national platform to educate consumers on the health and nutrition benefits of conventional white milk as a cost-effective source of protein in their diets.
Our DairyPure national branding efforts will be an addition to milk MilkPEP's and DMI's efforts and are designed to elevate fresh pure white milk in the minds of consumers.
Our retail customers have already embraced DairyPure because it simplifies their world with a single UPC code that will enhance their efficiency and effectiveness while retaining the benefits of regional brand equity that was built up over time.
DairyPure enables national customers to run the same branded feature ad from coast to coast.
And for the company it allows us to speak with one voice via national media.
We will be able to achieve national media buying efficiencies allowing us to get a bigger return from our advertising and promotions spend.
It also provides a national platform for future innovation and the ability to cross-promote with various CPG companies for unique marketing opportunities.
We have developed a strong launch schedule for DairyPure products starting with fresh fluid white milk which after the flawless executed launch in April is in stores now.
Creams school milk and buttermilk will begin to roll out in June.
National advertising began last week and Sunday newspaper coupons will appear this month as well.
We are putting a significant marketing effort behind this national brand initiative to help ensure its success.
2015 will be a year of investing in the DairyPure rollout and we anticipate seeing the incremental opportunities and benefits of this national brand playing out over the long-term.
Getting back to operating results our total net landed cost represents the all-in operating costs of our plant and logistics assets and personnel net of functional revenue like hauling revenue and excluding incentive compensation and certain other insurance adjustments.
To us it represents the controllable supply chain costs of the organization.
The rate of year-over-year landed cost per gallon took a step up in Q1 largely reflective of volume deleverage and to a lesser extent front-loaded employee wage and healthcare cost increases.
We now expect this higher cost per gallon growth to continue as we move through 2015 as volume deleverage stemming from our pricing actions outpaces the benefits we realized from plant closures capital-related efficiencies and robust cost productivity initiatives.
While still driving our full-year cost productivity agenda across procurement operations and logistics with volume and fixed cost deleverage we believe it will take longer than expected to see flat year-over-year landed cost growth.
We reported adjusted operating income of $52 million for the quarter a $45 million year-over-year increase versus last year's $7 million.
For the quarter operating income per gallon improved to $0.08 a gallon which represents a $0.04 per gallon sequential increase.
The improvement in our net price realization is reflective of pricing actions taken in the quarter.
First for Q1 gross margin per gallon improved $0.071 sequentially.
And second versus Q1 2014 our gross profit margin per gallon was up 19% as we benefited from declining Class I and Class II costs and pricing strategies to offset the impact of a 3% volume decline.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q1 results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
But before we discuss the financial results in more detail I'd like to take a minute to review the GAAP write-down we took in the quarter.
In conjunction with the decision to launch DairyPure we determined that certain of our intangible assets are more appropriately characterized and classified as finite-lived assets as opposed to their previous designation as indefinite-lived assets.
Accordingly we took a non-cash charge of $69 million net of tax which is reflected in our GAAP financial results but has been eliminated from our adjusted results in keeping with our practice of excluding nonrecurring items for the purpose of comparability.
Additionally for GAAP purposes over the next five years we expect incremental amortization of approximately $20 million per year associated with these now finite-lived intangible assets.
Moving on to our operating results and starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year-ago quarter total volumes declined 3% in Q1 as prices at retail while dropping remained relatively high from a historical perspective.
Gross profit increased due to favorable cost declines and the pricing mechanism for our Class II products price adjustments for our private label products pricing actions and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio and declining shrink costs correlated to the precipitous commodity declines.
The positive impact of these was partially offset by fixed cost deleverage within our operating plans.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $477 million in Q1.
This represents a $61 million improvement almost a 15% increase versus the year-ago quarter.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased $16 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses decreased $2 million resulting from productivity initiatives and lower fuel costs.
Decreases were partially offset by volume deleverage the distributor penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including an increase in health benefit costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with operating results.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive comp were only up $4 million versus year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $45 million to $52 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense increased $2 million from the year-ago period.
The increase primarily stems from the more than doubling of our average-weighted debt maturity profile following the successful $700 million eight-year bond issuance completed in February.
In 2014 our overall debt duration was skewed by the shift in debt mix caused by the repurchase and ultimate redemption of our 9.75% 2018 senior notes with lower priced and shorter term revolving credit facilities.
The marginally higher interest expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded Q1 adjusted net income of $22 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.24.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $90 million a 96% increase from $46 million in the prior year period.
Overall our operating results are reflective of solid execution within an easing commodity environment.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
In Q1 we delivered total free cash flow of $138 million including $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund.
This represented a $133 million year-over-year improvement in free cash flow performance primarily due to the improved operating results commodity cost declines lower working capital and the tax refund.
Our year-over-year invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down $50 million primarily due to lower dairy commodity price environment.
As of the end of the first quarter total net debt outstanding was $823 million down $78 million from the end of Q4.
The sequential improvement to net debt reflects the rapid deleveraging due to improving operating results and strong free cash flow performance.
For reasons that I will cover in a minute we no longer have a total leverage ratio covenant but on a comparable basis our Q1 total leverage improved over a full turn to 3.35 times net debt to EBITDA.
This really is a great cash-generating business.
And as fast as we levered up in 2014 we're beginning to lever down in 2015.
It's worth noting that at the end of Q1 for covenant purposes with our cash-on-hand exceeding our senior secured indebtedness our senior secured net leverage ratio was zero times.
In February we completed a $700 million offering with essentially investment-grade covenants.
And in March we entered into a new $450 million senior secured revolving credit facility and concurrently amended and restated our existing $550 million receivables securitization facility.
Combined they provide us with an optimized $1 billion in total revolving facilities.
Over a relatively short timeframe we significantly lengthened the company's maturity profile enhanced accessible liquidity obtained greater covenant flexibility and reduced pricing.
Immediately following our debt refinancing Dean Foods' unsecured rating was upgraded to BB- by S&amp;P.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
The largest part of our business is our fresh fluid milk category.
It's a category we believe we can thrive in.
It's an extremely large category with strong household penetration and it's one of the largest most profitable categories for retailers.
Milk has strong health and wellness credentials and it's on trend with consumers growing focus on fresh local protein-dense products with clean labels.
We take great pride in the products that we provide.
We are also very proud of our company.
Dean Foods is the largest player in milk.
We boast a coast-to-coast network enabling strong partnerships with national retail and food service accounts our large network offers opportunities to distribute and optimize capacity to drive efficiency and to lower unit cost.
We also believe our portfolio of brands is a competitive advantage and complements our customer set and leverages the national scale of our network in one of the nation's largest best-in-class refrigerated direct-store delivery distribution systems.
And now we are the first company to provide a fresh white milk national brand while building on the power and consumer loyalty of our regional brands.
In summary we're executing a clear and focused vision for our company to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion while never compromising on quality safety or service.
Looking forward with expected volume declines of low-single-digits and taking normal seasonality and other factors into account we expect Q2 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.20 and $0.30 per share.
We are changing the game with operational excellence disciplined financial stewardship and innovation as we extend our leadership position in the dairy industry.
And as the dairy industry leader we are uniquely positioned to lead the renaissance of the dairy category.
Lastly I'll add that I'm extremely proud of the employees that comprise this organization.
With their expertise and through their dedication we believe that we can drive shareholder value as we leverage our improving operating results and free cash flow performance our enhanced capital structure and the incremental opportunities associated with DairyPure.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Your first question comes from the line of Chris Growe [Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.].
Please proceed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just had two questions for you.
I was curious first of all on the branded milk performance.
It was  seems much stronger just given the fact that the price gap widened versus private label.
And perhaps the weakness a year ago was more about just the fact that overall or absolute prices were so high.
Just curious if you could discuss the branded performance anything that may have been unique to the quarter and any kind of any points behind that are worth us knowing about why the brands are still strong this quarter? Yeah.
I think Chris the one thing that we talked about last quarter was crossing over certain price barriers.
And if you remember in Q4 of last year we were up above $4 close to $4.08 I think was the average price in the fourth quarter.
In this quarter we're down in below $4 so down in the $3.95 $3.94 range.
So I think that played a part of that.
I think our  as we have continued to consolidate into stronger regional brands I think that also plays a part.
But I feel very good about where we're at especially with the volume holding up the way it did with the pricing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That was very good.
Thank you.
Just a quick question for you on DairyPure.
I'm curious about the  in terms of procuring the milk is there any incremental cost to sort of let's call it the purity of the milk? And then just curious about your advertising requirements behind the business.
It sounds like you have some savings coming through from advertising but will it be incremental dollars contributed to advertising the brand? Yeah I think  first of all on the milk side we have been rBST-free for a period of time now.
So there is no incremental cost to procuring the milk over and above what we already pay.
I think the second part of that is that as we look at our national and local brand strategies being able to talk to the consumer on a national basis really does allow us to get probably more dollars of advertising out in the marketplace.
It doesn't necessarily mean fewer dollars; it just means that our dollars that we're going to spend will go further as we do that on a national basis and buying media at a national level versus a regional level.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger [Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
LLC].
Please proceed sir.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Hi.
First I just wanted to revisit Chris's question on branded performance.
Gregg as we think about that $0.78 price gap during the quarter and the impact that had on Q1 margins and sustainability of that how are you thinking now about the pros and cons of having that normalize more quickly back to the $0.60 level you target long-term as opposed to continuing to see some near-term margin benefit over the next quarter or two? What's your preference I guess? Yeah.
Well I mean I think if you look at just the health of the category you would like to see the lower prices get reflected over time.
And then I think it becomes a matter of what level of pricing can we sustain from a branded perspective.
I mean if I just go back to  we were at $0.66 in the fourth quarter of last year and we're up to $0.78 now.
I think it's one where  over time as we see the retailers start to take some of the prices down as they've gotten back to the profitability levels that they expect in the category I think we will also see our pricing start to slip a bit.
So I think we'll do everything we can to find that right balance and try to maintain the gap that we think our brands can support.
But I do think you'll see that go back closer to the average over time.
Okay.
One of the things that we've talked about in the last couple of calls is sort of 2015 being a year of uncharted territory for us that we've never lived in a period where we saw milk decline from nearly $24 a hundred-weight back down to $16 a hundred-weight over such a relative short period of time.
And I'd tell you that kind of the same thing on uncharted territory with regard to branded and private label price gaps.
So we're learning more about the price gap and sort of that balancing act that Gregg just described literally every day.
And so that learning continues and we'll continue  our field sales teams and our revenue management folks are working pretty aggressively to find that right balancing act.
Okay thanks both.
And just question one question on DairyPure as well you've talked in the past about having pretty wide range of price gaps on your branded regional trademarks some of which are huge some of which are less substantial.
And as you're planning to migrate away from these trademarks over time what's the risk that you lose some of that enhanced pricing power that you have in selected regions? And I guess do you fully expect to offset that on a national scale by virtue of the higher brand equity and the consistent message and other things? Well I think  let me first and foremost say our regional brands are not going away.
So we do not plan to migrate away from them.
They'll continue to serve as endorsers to DairyPure.
So I think that drives that local value that we see in our local consumers to our regional brands.
So I think from that perspective we would expect that DairyPure will continue to drive the same level if not a bit higher branded gap to private label than what we've seen in the past.
We think we're going to  I mean we're currently planning to invest at leadership levels on the marketing and advertising side.
So we think it will be higher than in recent years as we put more and more behind that brand.
So I'm confident that DairyPure as a whole will help us to maintain the gaps at higher levels than we've had in the past.
Yeah.
Like Gregg said if anything I'd like to believe that the more efficient advertising program that we could run now behind DairyPure actually does the opposite.
It takes the brand that can't support as big of a price gap today and moves them toward the brands that do support the higher gap.
Okay.
No that's helpful.
I don't think I was clear initially on the long-term plan for some of the regional trademarks.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale [KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.].
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Congratulations on a solid quarter.
Great.
Thanks Akshay.
Thanks Akshay.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you help us sort of parse out from this quarter's performance what was controllable versus non-controllable in a way right? So the market conditions improved significantly and that's clearly reflective in your results.
You did talk about total delivered cost sort of coming in higher than expected.
So can you just give us a little bit more clarity because you have taken a lot of steps to reduce controllable costs? And it seems like it's getting a little bit delayed in achieving those.
So help us understand the controllable side of your business whether it's price realization or lower costs and how that's showing up in your numbers right now.
Well I think if you look at the quarter itself we obviously benefited from lower dairy commodity costs.
That was probably the big driver.
But I think we also got a lot of price realization.
And I think probably the thing that was different for us than what maybe we had expected is that the retailers didn't go down as much as we had anticipated they might.
So I think that played a bit of a surprise for us.
So volumes we're basically in line with what we had anticipated.
As we get down to the controllables on logistics we were very pleased with the logistics performance in the first quarter.
There remains a tremendous amount of opportunity to reduce our costs from a logistics perspective.
But I feel confident that we're on the right track to get at those.
I think from a plant perspective or a conversion cost perspective we continue to struggle with lower volumes and the deleverage coming at a faster pace than what we had anticipated.
Back when we put many of our plans in place we were looking at 1% to 1.5% type declines and now we're seeing 3%.
So it delevers at a much faster rate.
So we're just trying to play catch-up from a deleverage perspective.
But I still feel very confident that our annual cost reductions are all in place.
We're on target to deliver those.
I think what we've got to do is step that up to the next level to where we started to get at to delever to try to get back to declining costs.
But that gets harder and harder as we delever.
Yeah.
Actually we mentioned in the prepared remarks that the volume growth rate in the first quarter was off a little bit from the back half of last year.
And if you adjust for the lost volume from the RFP in the first half of last year volume was up even more from the first half of last year on kind of an adjusted basis.
So as Gregg said for the logistics and for the plant operations teams that 3.3% volume decline in the first quarter is a meaningful hill to climb.
And so a material part of that minus 2.4% or plus 2.4% growth in landed cost per gallon year-over-year does result from deleverage.
And the other thing we're seeing a bit of and it's not huge at this point but I see a continued shift of mix.
So if you look at our flavored milk which is a little more expensive to produce than our regular white milk volume was actually only down 1% so more in line with history.
And our white milk was down 3.3%.
So that mix starts to impact our cost structure as well.
On top of that kind of following that same vein we feathered back on ice cream production in the fourth quarter last year because of the way the commodity was changing cost.
And we  so that left us with some inventory to catch up on in the first quarter.
And so ice cream gallons produced in the first quarter were up substantially from where they were in the fourth quarter.
So that also creates a mix headwind for the business.
Inc.</span></strong> So just long-term the overall opportunity to lower costs which is definitely a controllable basket for you versus revenue realization I mean you've spent a lot of time in recent months have some new people coming into the firm where do you see the biggest opportunity? And relative to the past year or so is that absolute opportunity bigger or smaller in either of those buckets? Thanks.
Yeah.
I think the cost bucket remains about the same.
We still think the opportunity is what we have always thought it was.
It has been a quarter or two behind where we thought it was mainly due to deleverage and getting some of the projects completed.
So I think on the cost side it remains about the same.
I think what we're learning as we go through some of our branding exercises and some of our pricing protocols I think we've got opportunities on the revenue side.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman [Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.].
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess following up on Akshay's line of questioning a little bit.
I guess it just sounds like Gregg your volumes for the industry are coming in worse than when you gave us kind of a longer-term plan a couple of years ago with the spin-out from WhiteWave and you're kind of saying that cost per gallon is moving up as a function of that.
My sense is that while the DairyPure product makes a lot of sense it's  these things often are very costly.
And I guess you've also got this incremental  correct me if I'm wrong but $0.15 now of non-cash goodwill expense running through your P&amp;L.
So I guess I'm just  are you still comfortable given all these moving parts with your kind of long-term goals of mid-single-digit EBIT growth or kind of how do we judge all these moving parts now? Yeah.
Eric I would tell you that first of all Q1 is just a quarter.
So I think the softness in some of our cost structure I think we'll see that bounce back over time.
I'm not concerned with that.
And I'd tell you I'm still very comfortable with mid-single-digit EBITDA growth.
I'm not  that doesn't make me nervous at all at this point.
In fact probably I feel more encouraged today than I did two years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> And Chris can you comment how do we think  like is that correct in terms of the goodwill expense per share and are you going to restate numbers or is that like from second quarter onward that this annual expense is now going to be hitting the  albeit non-cash going to be hitting the P&amp;L? So yes that's how it'll  we think a one-time write-down here in the first quarter which you saw in our GAAP result this morning and then we will amortize it for the balance of the year and for the next five years.
But as we said in the prepared remarks it's part of GAAP results.
It won't be part of our adjusted results.
So like other items like this we've had in the past a non-cash charge that's not part of our normal operating results for comparability purposes we'll adjust it out to give people better visibility to how the business is actually performing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I'll follow up offline I guess.
I'm just not  I'm not sure why it isn't part of operating results albeit with the understanding it's not cash.
But we can follow up later.
Thank you.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam [Stephens Inc.].
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Farha.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you just go through your branding and pricing protocols as they stand now with private label TruMoo and DairyPure? Does private label reprice on a monthly basis and TruMoo and DairyPure do as well? How do we think about pricing in these three areas? Okay.
I'll start with private label.
In most cases it reprices monthly that is as the federal market orders come out we will reprice many of the private label agreements that we have or adjusted in the agreement as to how we adjust for private label.
So that will be adjusted monthly.
I think on the branded side whether it's TruMoo or DairyPure we will adjust as we see the market demand calling for.
So if private labels starts to come down and our gap gets to where we start to see volume concerns with our brand we'll adjust accordingly.
But we'll continue to press the brand pricing as much as we can so we don't  so we can always try to find that right balance between volume and price.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And how much control do you have on what the price of TruMoo or DairyPure is on store shelves on a ongoing basis? Well we would like to believe we have a lot.
I think in most cases we do set the pricing in most of our retails.
But there are some that will decide to invest behind a brand and take the brand lower for their own merchandising purposes.
So I think in general I would say we have pretty good control but there are retailers who will decide to somehow change the pricing on our brand structure.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And then just turning to capacity it doesn't sound like you're announcing any incremental closures of plants given the 3% or so volume declines you're experiencing.
How do you think you and/or the industry is going to handle the capacity situation versus the volume declines that the category is experiencing? Yeah.
I would first say that we have not announced any additional closures but we continue to look at our network and the optimization of our network on an ongoing basis.
And if obviously at a 3% decline in our volumes we have to continue to look at opportunities to adjust our network.
I can't really speak to how the industry will respond because I've not been very good at predicting that in the past and would not want to try and predict that in the future.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Farha similar to what Gregg said to Eric you have to keep in mind too that Q1 is just one quarter.
For 2014 our volume growth performance after adjusting for the RFP lost volume was better than that.
The category was better.
And if you watch the category from Q3 to Q4 and Q4 to Q1 it is still soft softer than historic norms but it's also recovering.
So we see the category headed back in the right direction.
As raw milk prices have come down as consumers have gotten some of that benefit at the dairy case the category has begun to recover.
So I think it'd be a little premature to kind of declare the category in dire straits going forward and not take into account the viewpoint that as commodity prices come down consumers will get some relief at the shelf.
Yeah.
And I think we've seen that historically.
So if you just look back at Q3 of 2014 it was  the category was down 3.7%; in Q4 it was at 3.4%; and Q1 at least of January was at 3.1%.
So I think we're seeing it move in the right direction.
But we really haven't seen the prices fall yet either.
So I think we anticipate that the category will continue to get healthier.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma [BMO Capital Markets].
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Amit.
Morning Amit.
Chris just a follow up to your comment on volume in Q1.
What are we expecting for the full year? Are we expecting a similar level of decline through the rest of the year? Or are we expected to get better as we go through Q3 and Q4? So we're kind of sticking with just one quarter out right now Amit.
And we're still saying that for the second quarter we think low-single-digit declines are where we'll land.
Yeah.
And can you talk about the branded performers across channels because at least the channels that we look at the measured channel data on our ride (56:11) that showed a pretty dramatic decline high-single-digit.
That's certainly not what you're reporting.
So are you performing better in non-measured channels or is the data not showing correctly? So yeah.
In large format you probably have to compare not just our performance on brands but our performance relative to the category because as it has for a while large format in total has been under some duress.
So we're definitely seeing softness in large format measured channels on brands but we're seeing it across the category as well.
Hence the reason why our mix has stayed pretty stable.
Amit we also have if you look at the first quarter we had a major retailer who went from our brand to their private label brand or their store brand and that adjustment would've made  but it went at the same pricing as our brand.
So that may have...
I see.
That may show a bit as well.
Definitely.
I think that's probably one of the drivers.
And then Gregg looking forward right the rest of the year your commentary on milk prices certainly sequentially -- it might become less of a tailwind versus what we saw in Q1 and probably in Q2 as well.
If that is the case and volumes don't get materially better than what they have done in the first half of the year is there a carryover impact of the improvement that we've seen in the first quarter that will help you in this back half or not? I'm just trying to understand  I understand that you're not giving back-half guidance and that's fair right but just trying to understand what other driver? Is it going to be dependent entirely on what milk prices do and where volumes are? Or is there any residual impact of what we're seeing at retail today that'll help you in the back half? Well I think if I look at the things that I would expect to continue to improve first and foremost it's going to be the continued improvement of TruMoo and DairyPure on those fronts just simply because we're introducing those to the market and putting national promotion advertising behind it.
So I would expect those to continue.
In fact DairyPure not in the first quarter we'll see the benefit of that as we go through the year.
But we have seen improvement in the flavored milk category.
I would expect that to continue as we continue to educate consumers around milk.
So I think those two will continue.
I think you'll see our cost benefits continue as we go through the year.
And if the category starts to get better we'll get momentum from that obviously.
So I feel very confident as we go through the rest of the year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Amit.
Your final question comes from the line of Robert Moskow [Credit Suisse Securities].
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thank you.
With the supply-demand balance looking much better now you could see this year potentially coming in quite well and maybe even above the $100 million to $150 million free cash flow guidance that you gave as kind of a normalized level.
And of course you have that tax benefit in first quarter also.
So let's say that happens Chris do you have a priority for where that cash would go? Do you think you could even buy back some stock now that your capital structure is where you wanted it to be? Yeah.
So good question.
So we've talked historically about kind of the four places where we would deploy free cash flow the dividend buybacks paying down debt and reinvesting in the business.
And so clearly the dividend remains a priority importance for us.
And then after that I think you see us kind of go into the other end of that spectrum and beginning out to reinvest in the business and the DairyPure initiative clearly an example of that.
But the ability to opportunistically be in the market and return cash to shareholders via a repo if that's an option that we think and the board of directors thinks makes sense it's absolutely something that remains kind of in our toolkit.
Yeah.
I guess the reinvesting in DairyPure part I would just assume that would be a normal part of your SG&amp;A because you're generating savings from consolidating your regional advertising buys.
So while I appreciate the comment that you want to build up the DairyPure brand shouldn't it be kind of self-financing? Some is and some  like any brand launch there's some investment cycle at the early part of that as well.
So there's a piece that comes from existing advertising levels that are in the run rate and then there's a piece also that I would characterize as being incremental to the run rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
And thank you all again for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
And have a great day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's conference is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods' corporate Web site.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
I would like to turn the conference over to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Sire please go ahead.
Thank you Michele and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our Web site at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's Web site at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods' Web site.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our Web site beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me today in the prepared section of the casll Mr.
Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of the first quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Gregg Tanner.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
As you may have seen Tom Davis resigned from our Board of Directors on Friday I'd like to acknowledge his 14 years of service and note that he leaves at a time when we feel more optimistic than ever about the future of Dean Foods.
We expect that the board will be ready to announce succession plans in the regular course.
In the interim our buy logs provided ample clarity for us to continue with the business for the company and that is exactly what we intend to do.
On that note I will turn our focus to our Q2 earnings.
This morning we reported second quarter earnings that included adjusted operating income of $67 million.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential improving financial results.
Our gross profit on an absolute dollar basis and our operating income on a per gallon basis was the highest we have had since 2012.
Our adjusted diluted earnings of $0.33 per share also exceeded the top end of our previous guidance.
During the quarter we also successfully launched DairyPure the country's first and largest fresh white milk national brand that we believe over the long-term will provide incremental benefits to consumers or category or customers in our company.
I'm very pleased with the operational and financial performance for the business this quarter and really excited about the prospects going forward.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to update you on dairy commodity landscape and its impact on retail pricing.
As expected raw milk cost increased gradually within the second quarter but the $15.82 per 100 weight quarterly average represents a decline of $0.97 or 6% sequentially and a decline of $7.84 or 33% a year-over-year basis.
Putting the second quarters phasing into context on a per gallon basis the cost of raw milk declined half a penny in April before rising $0.03 in both May and June.
In regards to the dairy commodity environment we believe both domestic and international supply growth will continue to outpace demand.
Accordingly in the near-term we see U.S.
raw milk prices continuing to trade in a relatively tight band with limited potential for price escalation.
From a nearing quarter perspective we expect the raw milk cost will continue to be significantly lower than prior year levels and will remain relatively stable.
Julys per 100 weight raw milk cost of $16.53 mark our third consecutive month with a $0.03 per gallon increase.
But August announced price of $16.28 per 100 weight represents about $0.02 per gallon decrease.
Sequentially and we expect per gallon prices to increase about half a penny per gallon in September.
All in we expect raw milk cost for the third quarter to increase about 4% sequentially.
However this would still represent a 30% decline on a year-over-year basis.
For the foreseeable future we see cheese or Class III continuing to be the driver of Class I raw milk cost.
But with the current large cost differentials between U.S.
and international dairy products as well as the price gap between Class III and Class IV domestically outside of the nearing quarter the market seen somewhat unsettled and subject to volatility.
Turning to pricing.
During the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class I Mover and retail price of private label gallons in the grocery channel declined each month and at a rate greater than the change in the cost of raw milk.
Despite the Class I Mover average increasing just $0.05 per gallon over the quarter the margin over milk declined $0.18.
As a result Junes margin over milk exit rate was $1.53 as compared to Marchs margin over milk exit rate of $1.71.
From a quarterly average perspective the margin over milk decreased from $1.70 per gallon in Q1 to $1.60 per gallon in Q2.
You will recall that in March the margin over milk declined more than the raw milk cost decline as retailers began passing back to consumers some of the cost declines that they had retained in January and February.
We continue to see this behavior in Q2.
For each month within the quarter prices at retail declined at a higher rate than the cost increases.
As a result the margin over milks quarterly average and the June exit rates are more in line with historic norms.
Category volume has improved modestly since the back half of 2014 and we believe lower prices at retail are one of the drivers.
Ill discuss a few others later in the call.
In the second quarter total Dean Foods volumes across all products of 653 million gallons were in line with our expectations and represent a 3.1% year-over-year decline.
Fluid milk volumes continue to represent about 75% of our total volume.
For Q2 fluid white milk volume performance continue to be impacted by category declines channel dynamics and our rate realization strategy on branded fluid milk products.
Although our total flavored milk volume performance was down less than 1%.
Across our other non fluid milk product categories year-over-year volume declines were partially offset by an increase in our ice cream volume performance.
Specific to fluid milk in the second quarter our volumes on a unadjusted basis declined 3.4% as compared to a year ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective volumes were down across all channels except food service.
The USDA recently reported industry fluid volumes through May and restated certain published data for prior periods.
Industry fluid volumes declines improved sequentially from a 3.1% decline in the fourth quarter of 2014 to a 2.2% decline in the first quarter of 2015.
As compared to the fourth quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volumes declined 30 basis points to 35.3% during the first quarter.
For quarter-to-date ended May industry fluid milk volumes declined approximately 2.5% year-over-year on an unadjusted basis.
On this same basis Dean Food share decreased to 35% from a 35.9% in the second quarter of 2014.
Its worth noting that for the full quarter within retail channels IRI data indicates that fluid milk volumes declined 1.6% as compared to the year ago period.
That is the strongest category performance as measured by IRI since Q3 of 2012.
Coming into Q2 with nominal raw milk cost fluctuations we didn't know if retailers would provide consumers with significantly lower price label retail prices on shelf.
Retailers did in fact reduce pricing at a higher rate than the cost increases and as compared to last year.
We saw retail and category volume declines improved in Q2.
We are taking a balanced approach to managing share and operational performance as we focus on sustaining long-term growth.
We remain diligent in securing volume with margins that reflect the level of service and quality we provide to our customers.
However we're beginning to see a lower commodity environment translate into an increased competitive environment.
From a commercial perspective with the category showing signs of improvement we continue to focus on striking the right balance withdrawing volume performance and price realization.
Within the grocery channel at retail our brands averaged $3.73 at retail down $0.35 versus Q2 of 2014 and down $0.21 versus Q1 of 2015.
These declines are driven by promotional pricing associated with our DairyPure launch and also included the disproportionate impact of certain large retailers choosing to significantly lower branded milk prices of retail.
As a result even with almost a $0.68 per gallon year-over-year raw milk cost decline.
The price gap between our brands and private label has expanded 20% year-over-year from $0.64 to $0.77.
Moreover as compared to Q1 of 2015 there is only a penny decline sequentially.
Before discussing mix I'd like to remind all of you looking at IRI or Neilson data that in Q4 of 2014 we have one of our large customers within the club channel switch from Dean branded products to Private Label products.
Since we provided the milk before and after this label switch with no change in pricing or economic impact to us we have normalized branded and private label volumes for this change.
Taking this into account across all channels our branded white milk volumes are down almost 4% year-over-year.
Taking another view to our branded white milk volumes within the grocery channel our branded volume performance was as largely stabilized up slightly year-over-year.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q2 we averaged 34.3% this compares to a 34.8% brand mix in Q1 2015 and is flat versus Q2 2014.
Given the continuation of above normal price gaps at retail we are very pleased with our branded mix and performance.
As I mentioned earlier our flavored milk volume performance was down less than 1% versus last year.
However with improving flavored milk category performance within retail in Q2 fluid milk volume and MULO+C Store grew 4.8% versus prior year ago period.
Obviously the biggest news for the quarter from a brand perspective was the launch of our national fresh white milk brand DairyPure which was supported by incremental advertising and promotional spend.
Although it's too early to project a long-term impact at DairyPure we are pleased with this performance today.
As we've discussed over the long-term we expect DairyPure to provide a number of clear benefits for the consumers to category retail customers and certainly for our company.
For consumers DairyPure is on trend with a desire for clean label local stores fresh protein and nutrient packed products.
We were seeing strong consumer response as our DairyPure message has already reached more than 1 million facebook users and our average post engagement rates since launch is nearly six times the industry average.
For the category our national brand builds a void in the dairy industry.
Our initial DairyPure advertising platform is educating consumers on the health and nutritional benefits of conventional white milk.
We are also promoting DairyPure as a cost-effective source of protein.
Our retail customers have already embraced DairyPure because it simplifies their world with a single UPC code that will enhance their efficiency.
DairyPure has also enabled national promotions and FSIs which were previously not feasible under our regional UPCs.
We are seeing DairyPure coupon redemption rates that are trending above CPG industry norms.
And for the company DairyPure has allowed us to take advantage of the efficiencies of national media with one clear voice.
Given the performance since launch we have committed additional advertising investment to promote DairyPure through the balance of 2015.
We believe that in addition to the benefits of DairyPure we may begin to see improved category performance based on several positive trends that indicate certain secular headwinds may be abating.
For the first time since the recession U.S.
birth rates rose in 2014 versus the prior year.
Additionally the rate of second and both grew 1% and 2% respectively in 2014.
Second cereal consumption declines have begun to moderate.
While there is still a clear shift to on the go breakfast offerings the deceleration marks a positive trend since breakfast milk consumption represents about 30% of daily consumption occasions.
Next organic milk volume growth at retail has decelerated the past five quarters.
While the category is still experiencing positive growth supply issues and retail prices appear to be capping at share of the category.
With DairyPure we are telling consumers that they dont have to drink organic milk to have milk that is tested for antibiotics and that is free of growth hormones.
From a plant based beverage standpoint much of almond milks growth appears to have fueled mainly at soys expense.
And like organic milk the almond milk category has had similar deceleration in growth rates since early 2014.
It also appears to us that almond milk maybe on its way to ending this growth cycle much sooner than soy.
Finally consumers are asking for healthy high protein products.
We believe that through our efforts to improve consumer education supported by MilkPEP we may be able to make more consumers of plant based products aware that conventional milk is a much more cost effective and caloric source of protein.
Were not sure that everyone knows that conventional white milk has 8 grams of protein in an 8 ounce serving and it takes a 64 ounce serving of almond milk to get the same 8 grams of protein.
There is a general misconception that the fresh white milk category in the U.S.
has been declining annually for decades.
While thats applicable through our per capita consumption with population growth fresh white milks volumes actually increased every year from 2005 to 2009 at rates ranging from 0.2% to 1.1%.
Generally speaking post grade recession headwinds to the category have included the declining birth rates declining cereal consumptions the emergence of alternative dairy beverages both organic and plant based.
While improvements to the secular trends that I just discussed do not reflect all the variables affecting the conventional fluid milk category we believe they maybe arbiters of future growth opportunities for us and our category.
Now let me switch gears and discuss the actions were taking to improve our long-term operating performance.
From a commercial perspective we continue to focus on striking a right balance between volume performance and price realization.
In order to accomplish this we continue to develop more disciplined processes utilizing better analytical tools to provide us with deeper insights that lead to better pricing decisions.
As a result the commercial organization is focused on category revenue and trade spend management and driving the growth of our national brands.
With the recent launch of DairyPure and continued success and expansion of our TruMoo brand we are investing behind these national brands.
DairyPure gives us a national brand supported by our highly regarded regional brands to unlock growth potential within the category.
Commercially we intend to continue pursuing growth opportunities through product innovation and by targeting key customers categories and channels.
Across our supply chain we continue to execute our cost productivity agenda and utilize our scale to procure ingredients and packaging at industry leading levels.
Optimize our production network and reduce our logistics cost.
From a plant perspective in response to volume and category declines we have consolidated the number of plants in our network which provides a long-term opportunity to reduce landing cost after the transition.
Most recently we announced our second plant closure in 2015 as we plan to seize operations at our Rochester Indiana facility in October.
We plan to continue to evaluate our network in light of category and volume performance.
On the procurement side we continue to invest considerable resources towards ongoing efficiency in our raw milk utilization.
Working with our suppliers we have a reliable and predictable supply chain that achieves lower overall system costs that we believe cannot be achieved by smaller suppliers.
Earlier this year Dean moved a significant portion of our dairy grade HDPE resin buy from a brokerage arrangement to an in house procurement model.
As a significant HDPE resin buyer we have been able to eliminate brokerage costs and achieve lower cost for the raw material.
As it relates to our logistics network we are focused on increasing the use of routing tools and software to enable route optimization and driver productivity.
But we can also improve efficiency through indirect methods.
One example is delivery frequency.
By focusing on the number of deliveries we make through customers location as well as the size of the delivery we believe we can considerably improve the utilization of our assets by making sure our trucks are full.
Year-to-date we have taken over 5 500 stops in a 192 distribution assets out of our distribution system.
Each of these represents over 3% reduction.
When looking at our supply chain thats our operations and logistics together the rate of our year-over-year landed cost per gallon growth took a step down in Q2 to 1.6%.
This improvement is largely reflective of our cost productivity agenda.
As well as lower fuel costs offset by the impact of our conscious decision to incrementally invest in modest amount back into our supply chain this quarter.
As we said before the timeframe to get the flat year-over-year landed cost per gallon will be slower than expected as volume deleverage creates the headwind for our productivity plan.
We reported adjusted operating income of 67 million for the quarter a 73 million year-over-year increase versus last year's loss of 6 million.
For the quarter operating income per gallon improved to $0.10 a gallon which represents a $0.02 per gallon sequential increase.
The improvement in our net price realization is reflective of pricing actions we've taken.
First for Q2 gross profit per gallon improved $3.09 sequentially and second versus Q2 of 2014 our gross profit per gallon was up 28% as we benefited from declining class I and class II cost and pricing strategies to offset the impact of a 3% volume decline.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris for a more detail review of the financial results.
Chris.
Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q2 operating results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year ago quarter while total volume declined 3.1% in Q2 our gross profit increased due to favorable cost decline and the pricing mechanisms for our Class II products price adjustments for our private label products pricing action and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio and declining shrink costs correlated to the dramatic commodity declines.
The positive impact of these was partially offset by mix shifts and fixed costs deleverage within our operating plans.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $496 million in Q2.
This represents a $96 million improvement versus the year ago quarter and represents the highest quarterly gross profit since 2012.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased $22 million from the year ago period.
Selling and logistic expenses increased $5 million primarily due to incremental investment in advertising and promotions as well as trucks traffic.
The increase is also affected by the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back in the areas surrounding closed facility as well as higher labor costs including increases in health benefit costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with higher earnings.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive compensation were only up $4 million versus year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $73 million to $67 million.
Below the operating line interest expense increased $2 million from the year-ago period.
The marginally higher interest expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded a Q2 adjusted net income of $32 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.33.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $107 million a $73 million increase from $34 million in the prior year period.
Overall all operating results are reflective of solid execution across all functions.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Year-to-date net cash flow from continuing operations was $272 million; capital expenditure totaled $48 million resulting in free cash flow from continuing operations of $224 million.
Excluding the $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund our year-to-date free cash flow from operations was a $168 million this is a 196 million higher than the prior year period due to our strong operating results commodity decline and reduced working capital investment.
Our invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down $36 million year-over-year on the back of 29% year-over-year decline in Class I raw milk price.
We would expect our free cash flow to sequentially and seasonally fall in Q3 due primarily to our higher working capital investment and lower operating results being further impacted by our increased quarterly capital expenditure bill.
As of the end of the second quarter total net debt outstanding was $734 million down 90 million from the end of Q1.
This represented the third sequential quarterly reduction in net debt due to improving operating results and strong free cash flow performance.
On an all cash netted basis our Q2 leverage sequentially improved by over a full turn to 2.3 times net debt to EBITDA it is over two full turns lower than the end of 2014.
This highlights our proven ability to rapidly de-lever on the strength of our cash generating business.
For covenant purposes our cash on hand exceeded our senior secured indebtedness thereby resulting in a senior secured net leverage ratio of 0 times.
Our first half 2015 operating performance and our recent actions to improve our balance sheet provide Dean Foods with opportunities to drive total shareholder returns.
We will continue to have an opportunistic mindset with regards to options and uses of our excess cash.
We may invest our cash; either by reinvesting in our base business to grow the top line; gain efficiencies and strengthen our cost advantages or by executing M&amp;A to expand our complement our product offerings or we may chose to distribute our cash to shareholders either through opportunistic share repurchases or via the cash dividend strategy that we initiated in Q1 of 2014.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg.
Thanks Chris.
Looking forward with expected volume declines in the low single-digits slightly increasing raw milk costs and taking normal seasonality and other factors into account we expect Q3 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.17 and $0.27 per share.
We are the largest player in the milk industry with sustainable competitive advantages through our scale and capabilities and we remain focused on our initiatives to drive shareholder value.
With DairyPure our national fresh white milk brand and TruMoo our national flavored milk brand we have significant opportunity to expand our industry leadership role.
Our financial results reflect improving performance trends and we have refinanced our debt and expanded our accessible liquidity which gives us significantly more financial flexibility as we move forward.
Lastly I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued commitment and also recognize the many employees involved in the successful launch of DairyPure.
The incremental opportunities associated with DairyPure present a unique opportunity for our Company to expand our leadership position within the category and provide a major catalyst for growth.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Frieda Joe on for Judy.
So my question was related to the drivers between the low single-digit volume decline guidance for the third quarter.
With the industry declines being a little bit more moderate in the 2.5% decline year-over-year.
Do you see that kind of playing out through the back half? And then is it really the better industry volume dynamics that you see as the larger driver to that volume decline guidance? Or is it really a better share performance in the back half? I would first start with the category.
I think we do see trends that would tell you that the category is continuing to improve.
And I think as far as our volume in the low single-digits decline is really going to continue to be very dependent upon finding that right balance between our pricing and our volume expectations.
Were very pleased with the price gaps as we see them today you look at $0.77 difference between private label and our branded products thats about $0.15 to $0.20 above historical norms and we believe that thats serving us extremely well from a financial performance perspective.
And then just turning towards some of the SG&amp;A expenses for the back half of the year.
Are you expecting the pace that $5 million increase to be the run rate as we go to the back half? The extra investments that were going to make in DairyPure advertising is embedded in our Q3 guidance.
So we think that due to that modest increase you can continue to see SG&amp;A performance thats consistent with that kind of expectations.
And so that $5 million -- so DairyPure is the largest driver? DairyPure and the increase in year-over-year incentive comp are above planned performance.
And then dont forget we also are continuing to support our TruMoo brand in the back half of the year as well.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I think you've talked in the past about having some appetite for acquisitions just wanted to hear your latest thoughts from that side of thing and then particular criteria you would use if you're looking for potential purchases and on the financial side on the type of product or acquisition that you might be thinking about? Alexia I think as Chris said in his prepared remarks.
There is the four different alternatives that we have when it comes to investing back into the business or putting that back out as a dividend or a share repo but from a M&amp;A perspective it's all about do we enhance the portfolio that we have and can we take advantage of the scale and the capabilities that we already bring to that and so finding brands or something that would fit within that portfolio that we've put on our trucks that we could run in our manufacturing or provide us capabilities beyond what we may have today would be where we were targeting our efforts.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Brett Hundley BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Gregg I want to ask you -- you are exactly right around about the price gaps leading to great margin performance for you guys.
And you mentioned just may be some competitive behaviors creeping in we've heard the same thing and obviously you guys are going manage price and volume in a vacuum but can you just speak a little bit to some behavior that you are seeing and maybe how long you think some of these price gaps can hold in place? I think it's one where if you look at the historical norms -- usually as prices of raw milk start to go down you will see the RFP activity or the request for proposals from our customers start to go up.
And I think we're seeing that normal trend as prices have stabilized here I think we're starting to see people come back into the market with RFPs.
As I said earlier I think we will -- I know we will continue to manage our prices to make sure we're serving the customers with the level of service and quality that they would expect but at a price thats competitive for us.
So I dont -- I think we are going to see the RFP activity pick up in the second half of the year but I dont think it doesnt change our strategy as to what we are to be doing.
As you think about the gap the $0.77 gap whether how long can we maintain that I think thats one that we'll continue to monitor and balance as we go through the rest of the year and into next year just to see what -- I mean obviously we'd like to keep it up at those levels as long as we possibly can.
I do believe that our advertising around DairyPure and what we're doing with DairyPure is allowing us to maintain that gap.
And then just one quick one from me Gregg there is been a merger to entities at the retail grocery level and one has historically been more vertical in dairy and the other hasn't.
I'm just curious whether there is any early read on whether this is a potential threat or a potential opportunity for the milk industry? I dont know what it means at this point I think they're still trying to get their arms around what this thing together between Albertsons what that actually means to them so I dont whether it's an opportunity or if it's a threat at this point but I thinks it's one where -- as we continue to look at our capabilities of what we can do I think there is plenty of opportunity for us to continue to be profitable and then do what we need to do without any of that in the mix.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I'd like to come back to the performance of your branded business volumes despite the expansion of the price gap.
What's driving that in your view -- I mean what's different from this cycle than the previous cycles? No John I think it's still is that we really had not educated the consumer in the past around the branded the benefits of branded white milk.
And I think the same holds true with TruMoo.
If you go back to 2011 we weren't talking to the consumer until that point of time.
So I think that -- I want to believe that the biggest reason is that we're educating the consumer and the consumer is starting to understand the benefits of that and I think its allowed us to start to expand that gap.
And we've talked in the past about the number one or number two position that our regional brands hold and 80% of the market that they play in.
So I think one of the things you are seeing in the strength performance the brand performance today is just the fruition the culmination of that very strong position that those brands holding and offer.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with J.
P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
So two questions if I can were seeing quite a recovery in full or fat white milks right and I think whole milk I think most people would agree with this taste and feels a lot better than skim.
So to me this might present a great opportunity for the milk industry to market behind flavor and texture in a way that really hasnt done in decades.
I mean since I was a kid milk is marketed as a health beverage.
So first do you agree with that as an opportunity; and second do you think the industry is doing enough along these lines I still hear more about protein and health on white milk then taste? Ken I think we need to put you on the road.
But I would absolutely agree with that and we are seeing the trends more towards whole milk and less around fat free or low fat.
But I think its one where we have to pick and chose our messages.
And I think when you only have 15 or 30 seconds to try to communicate that you try to decide which of those three youre going to hit whether its taste or whether right now we kind of decided that we want to focus on the no antibiotics and no artificial growth hormones just trying to let people know that they dont have to go to organic or something else to try to avoid those.
The other is really trying to lien in on the protein push and I think that just seems to be aligned with where most consumers are today and trying to find cost effective protein sources and thats ours.
So I think we talk about it being cold we about it being fresh we talk about it being local and I think youre spot on weve got to get back to the taste message.
I do believe that MilkPEP and the campaign that theyre on right now is helping that considerably.
I would also tell you that as much as we would love to see people go back towards whole milk and drink more milk it is in general.
The implications of that have been playing out in the marketplace today where you have higher cream cost right now because with more whole milk in the marketplace versus skim it creates less cream and so multiples on cream I mean were paying the highest multiples weve seen on cream in quite some time.
And this next question may unfortunately make you rethink your desire to get me on the road.
But I appreciate and youre hesitant to talk about Mr.
Davis resignation I do understand absolutely.
But he was just reelected less than three months ago.
So is there any color you can provide from the reasons for his departure just to help the shareholders who have voted for him understand what took place even in general terms? I mean I think its important because I think one of the reasons the stock is down today is that the uncertainty around what happened.
People are assuming the worse.
And I just hope if any color you can provide would be useful there? Well I appreciate the questions but I really have nothing further that I can add other than the fact that we feel more optimistic than ever about the future of Dean Foods.
But no I cant provide any additional color to that.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I had just two questions for you if I could and the first was to just to clarify your commentary on the landed cost per gallon.
It sounds like is that still up year-over-year was it down sequentially.
I want to understand the comment you made I think Gregg to that point.
If you look back Chris to the Q1 Q4 to Q1 to Q2 we were up as high as 2.6% above year-over-year ago levels and then this last quarter we were down to 1.6%.
So its trending in the right direction but its still not back to flat from a year-over-year perspective.
And so the expectation.
Yes the expectation is that well get back to flat in time.
But again as we told you on the last quarter with the volume deleverage that were seeing its taken longer than we had anticipated that it would take to get back to flat.
And then just one more question for you when a customer shifts from branded to private label it would seem like that would be accompanied by some margin degradation for you the manufacturer.
It sounds like in this case youve had a pretty big customer club side move but very little change in economic.
Is that just something thats still to come you think or youre comfortable you can hold margins where they are because this is a pretty good size of pretty good chunk of volume that is moving that way.
No we dont.
There was no change in economic there was no change in our wholesale price to that customer when they changed from brand to private label and there won't be any in the future.
We dont expect a normal course or there to be any change in our price to them prospectively.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
I got cut off for some reasons so this may have been asked already but I guess first one is I dont know whether it's Ken's question about the Chairman's resignation or if we put that aside I kind of took your comments despite pretty much a record quarter for the last few years is pretty negative I mean the stock's down 14% so I guess; Gregg I wanted to see if the outlook from a competitive standpoint is that bad that thats kind of really the impression you meant to leave because it seems like thats what's the markets or the way the markets interpreting it? I'm not sure how the market interprets it Eric but I can guarantee you we dont feel that way.
What I can grantee you is that we feel like we've got the best momentum we've had in a long time.
We also feel very confident in our ability to continue to see your performance improve.
So the only comment I made around the competitive activity was that we are seeing some RFP activity more so than what we've seen in the past but it's not outside the historical norms as we see milk prices come down.
So after that people looking at sort of where we ended in Q2 at $0.33 versus our guidance for the third quarter and overreacting to what we would describe is largely normal seasonality you know from covering Dean Foods for long time but going from Q2 to Q3 is not unusual to see a step down in EBIT not unusual to step down in EPS just due to the fiscal volume not being completely covered the decreases in volume just not being completely covered by increases in ice-cream.
Though some people may have anticipated the EPS would hold in Q3 or even go up again but that would clearly be very outside the normal seasonality for the business.
And then on the free cash flow I mean it was very strong.
I dont think you gave an update on CapEx and I'm not asking you to give a forecast for the year but is there any kind of senses to how you feel free cash flow comes in for the full year given whatever second half spending or working capital changes you see? Yes.
I dont want to get into -- on the [narrative] kind of guide for the full year.
We did say that for the third quarter we expected kind of based on normal seasonality and the fact that in the first half of the year with both tax refund being embedded in the first half of the year and the reset of working capital due to the decline in commodity costs are also being in the first half of the year.
We expect that the second half of the year free cash flow performance to look more modest.
So though CapEx will go up we dont have those two tailwinds in the back half of the year so we are extremely pleased with first half performance obviously but back half performance will be more modest on free cash flow.
And then last question I guess to the DairyPure initiative.
Gregg when do you feel like you can correctly judge what's -- when or what will be a success? I mean it's such a high your product line is so high turning it seems to me that unlike let's say slower returning self stable food products; you should be able to probably get a pretty quick judgment on whether it's working? I mean DairyPure's Eric as we come out as we go into the third quarter I would assume on the next call we'll have more information as far as how well it's performing.
But I think again it's more of a long-term play for us as we take the DairyPure brand and move it into adjacencies.
So -- but I - you're right with the quick turn of the product but you also have to keep in mind that you still got an educated consumer so even though you may have a fast turning product doesnt mean that consumers necessarily got the message yet but I think next quarter we got be in a much better position to provide some data.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephen.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead I was just wondering if ice-cream had a particularly positive impact on this quarter given one of your competitors were added in market during the quarter? Yeah.
I mean -- yes it did.
I mean our volume on ice-cream was up a bit had positive from a volume perspective but also drove some cost mix on our cost side.
So obviously producing ice-cream is more expensive than producing fluid milk so it did have a bit of drag on our cost structure just in total from a landing cost perspective but yes we did see some volume pick up on ice-cream business.
And is that going to be a positive in the third quarter and when we comp it in next year is that going to be a factor we should consider? I would think that we should expect to see it for some period of time.
I dont know how long.
But we feel good about where were at and feel good about the ice-cream business in total right now.
And then over the last year youve pulled back from giving longer term commentary or guidance as the fluid milk environment was so volatile.
Now that your outlook on fluid milk is clear and there is likely less volatility would you be willing to share with us some longer term metrics in terms of your targets either in margin profit per gallon EPS growth as we consider Dean as a longer term contracted investment? As far as in those head contracts probably not but what I would tell you is that as much as we believe the commodity market is pretty stable for the third quarter I would tell you that I think its still extremely volatile for any further out than that because there is a considerable gap between the international prices today and the U.S.
prices.
There is a historical gap between Class III and Class IV milk prices right now.
All of those at some point will have to converge.
And I just think that youre going to see the volatility in this market play out I dont know if its fourth quarter first quarter or second quarter but those have to come together.
Just as an example U.S.
butter prices today are at about $1.99 a pound and international butter prices are at about $4 pound basis the GDP.
So any time you get those price gaps youre going to see exports start to go down or are going down considerably and imports are starting to come up.
All of those are going to have impacts and cause volatility in the U.S.
commodity market.
So from that perspective I dont see the volatility necessarily changing other than one quarter in front of us which we have visibility to.
And as far as long term I think we've said were going to be mid single-digit EBITDA growth and were going to be in a position to deliver on that.
So thats about as much of a long-term perspective as I'd give you.
And Ill let Chris in there if he has a different perspective.
No I think thats exactly right Gregg.
I mean to me as far as there is short-term guidance which were clearly giving right now there is long-term guidance which Gregg just suggested and between those there is annual guidance.
And so weve chosen as you noted the world got very volatile for us last year and as Gregg echoed and described as the world remains volatile that piece in the middle around annual guidance that we remain reluctant to engaging.
But the long-term guidance that Gregg just described has really been very consistent for the last 2.5 years.
And our last question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow up to Farhas question on the ice-cream contribution and also just to add to it Class II butter fat if you talked about.
Could you quantify in any way what is the margin impact of it on a gallon basis? I am going to have to look to Chris to try to give you better insight to that.
I think I can just from a cream multiple perspective youre looking at cream multiples today in the 150 range versus historical ranges around 130 probably for this time a year specially as you come out of that.
And as far as our ice-cream volume I think our ice cream volume in the second quarter was up 2% 3% versus last year.
Yes so I mean I dont want to go too much further on getting overly specific on the amount.
But as Gregg just said volume was favorable pricing was favorable although some of the volume was also private label it wasnt all a branded increase.
And so there is a mix dynamic within ice-cream between private label and branded that would make that pricing impact a little bit more muted.
But we were very pleased with its performance.
And again within the grand scheme of total Dean Foods volume white milk is the driver ice-cream plays apart but just due to the relative scale of the two businesses.
In total it was positive but it was I would characterize as a modest driver of the upside in Q3.
Q2 or Q3? Q2.
And then just a follow up on Erics question earlier about the commentary or the tone I mean I am also surprised that it comes across as a little bit more negative from a volume perspective from volatility perspective in Class 1 competitive environment little bit heating up as well and then margin over milk continues to shrink.
Is that -- did you mean to convey -- I mean those if you put them all together that's probably why the stock's reacting this way or are we looking it the wrong way? As I said earlier I have no idea why it would come across this negative because that was never -- that was not the intent.
I think we always have a cautionary term to any time we see looking forward around the volumes on the category and what's going on but we absolutely -- I said it right up front I feel as good about this business today as I the last three years and I think we see our performance in the second quarter is just the third sequential or fourth sequential quarter in a row of continuing performance.
So how others outside decide to take it or perceive it I really can't control that but we're cautious about only capturing some of the conservative things that we talked about what I would also capture the more optimistic items that's sit on the other side of the ledger.
So we can talk about volume being down 3% in the second quarter that is clearly a little bit worse than the back half of 2014 when we were down 2% but if you don't at the same time talk about the improvements in gross profit per gallon the pricing benefit that we've gotten as a result of being slightly lower volume I think it's an incredible story and we think on balance when you add those two stories together it's actually not negative at all.
It's actually a very very positive story.
Thank you.
And this does close our Q&amp;A session for today's conference.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Gregg Tanner for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Michele.
And thank you all again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
And we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is being broadcast live over the Internet on Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution or retransmission or rebroadcast of this company in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would now like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tanya.
And good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
This press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods' website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense EBITDA and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among other things disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q as well in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our third quarter performance and an update on our national brands.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott.
And good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we reported third quarter earnings that included adjusted operating income of $62 million which equates to over $0.09 a gallon.
This marks the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in gross profit and operating income.
Our adjusted diluted earnings of $0.30 per share also exceeded the top end of our previous guidance.
From a year-to-date perspective we have delivered almost $300 million of EBITDA and generated over $240 million of free cash flow.
Also in Q3 we utilized $53 million of cash to repurchase 3.2 million shares of Dean Foods' common stocks.
I'm very pleased with the operational and financial performance of the business this quarter especially given its seasonality and the headwinds we face in terms of increasing raw milk costs and elevated Class II costs.
I believe the financial results in 2015 demonstrate that we are driving the right initiatives and agenda.
And to be clear I continue to be both excited and optimistic about our prospects and our opportunities going forward.
We have described DairyPure our fresh white milk national brand that we launched in Q2 as a platform that will provide numerous opportunities for us to create long-term incremental benefits for our consumers our category our customers and our company.
In Q3 after only six months in the marketplace we began to see initial positive signs resulting from DairyPure.
I'll provide more detail regarding DairyPure later on in the call.
We view our portfolio of brands especially with our national brands of DairyPure in fresh white milk and TruMoo in flavored milk as a competitive advantage that complements our customer set and leverages the national scale of our network and one of the nation's largest best-in-class refrigerated direct store delivery distribution systems.
We believe the strong health and wellness credentials in dairy products and especially in fresh milk resonate with consumers.
Altogether we believe this is a great business to be in and one that creates a compelling operating and financial opportunity.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to update you on the dairy commodity landscape and its impact on retail pricing.
In Q3 as expected but for the first time this year raw milk costs increased sequentially.
The quarterly average cost for the third quarter was $16.38 per hundred-weight which represents a 4% sequential increase but a decline of $7.13 or 30% on a year-over-year basis.
Putting the third quarter's phasing into context on a per-gallon basis the cost of raw milk increased about $0.035 in July before declining just over $0.02 in August and rising back up $0.005 in September.
Overall we experienced relatively modest cost movements within the quarter.
In regards to the dairy commodity environment in the fourth quarter we expect that raw milk costs will be down sequentially given the butter market and other seasonal factors.
October's per hundred-weight raw milk costs of $15.84 marked a sequential decrease of $0.03 per gallon.
While November's announced price of $16.48 per hundred-weight represents about a $0.06 per gallon increase sequentially we expect our per gallon prices to decrease about $0.01 in December.
All in we expect raw milk costs for the fourth quarter to average $16.22 per hundred-weight which represents a decrease of about 1% sequentially.
We believe Q4 will be another quarter with modest cost movement sequentially but as we've experienced all year raw milk costs will continue to reflect a significant decline on a year-over-year basis.
We expect global dairy fundamentals to continue to be overall supportive to our business as production continues to outpace relatively modest demand.
Year-over-year total milk production from the top seven exporters continues to increase albeit at a slower pace compared to the robust expansion experienced in 2014.
The EU is a leading contributor as their milk production has increased year-over-year by more than 2.5% largely due to the elimination of the milk quotas at the end of March.
This is particularly meaningful when one considers that the overall size of the European dairy production is approximately seven times larger than that of New Zealand and over one-and-a-half times larger than that of the U.S.
Moreover we see China's milk supply expanding faster than their weaker consumption and a continuation of the Russian import ban.
In the U.S.
we continue to see ongoing domestic supply momentum due to a slightly larger herd and productivity growth more than offsetting the impact of the continued drought in California.
These supply and demand factors should contribute to a relatively benign dairy environment over the short term.
Lastly we expect Class II costs to decline meaningfully as we exit the Q4 holiday season.
Turning to pricing through the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class I Mover and the retail price of private label gallons of fresh milk in the grocery channel remain relatively flat given the modest changes in the cost of raw milk.
The Class I Mover average increased sequentially above $0.05 per gallon and the margin over milk decreased from $1.60 per gallon in Q2 to $1.54 per gallon in Q3.
September's margin over milk exit rate was $1.53 just $0.01 down from June's margin over milk.
This suggests that retailers chose not to pass through the higher cost of raw milk embedded in their wholesale costs.
Generally speaking the margin over milk has returned to more normative historic levels and we view its stability as an indicator of rational pricing by retailers.
In the third quarter total Dean Foods volumes across all products of 658 million gallons were in line with our expectation and represents a 2.3% year-over-year decline which is approximately 100 basis points better than our run rate during the first half of the year.
Fluid milk volumes continue to represent about 75% of our total volumes.
For Q3 our fluid white milk volume performance continued to be impacted by channel dynamics and our rate realization strategy on branded fluid milk products.
Across our other non-fluid milk product categories year-over-year volume declines were largely offset by a more than 10% increase in our ice cream volume performance.
For the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis we expect total volumes to decline low-single digits.
Specific to fluid milk in the third quarter our volumes on an unadjusted basis declined 2.8% as compared to the year-ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective volumes were up in food service but down across all other channels.
On a sequential basis fluid milk volumes in small format have improved about 50 basis points in each of the last two quarters.
The USDA recently reported industry fluid milk volumes through August and restated certain published data for prior periods.
Industry fluid milk volume declines improved from a 2.2% decline in the first quarter of 2015 to a 1.3% decline in the second quarter of 2015.
As compared to the first quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volume declined 10 basis points to 35.2% during the second quarter.
For quarter-to-date ended August industry fluid milk volumes declined approximately 0.9% year-over-year on a non-adjusted basis.
On this same basis Dean Foods' share of 35.3% has increased 10 basis points as compared to the second quarter of 2015.
I'm very encouraged by the stable sequential share performance we are delivering in 2015 given the decisions we've made to materially improve net price realization.
It's worth noting that the quarter-to-date fluid milk volume decline of 0.9% is meaningfully better than the 3.6% decline experienced in the year ago period.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter both sequentially and year-over-year improved category performance.
The health of the dairy category is probably as good as it's been in my career at Dean Foods and while lower priced milk in terms of both cost and prices at retail is helping support that I also believe that the abatement of certain secular headwinds which we discussed in depth last quarter is contributing.
In this regard both almond milk and organic milk growth rates decelerated again this quarter.
With our shares stabilizing we remain diligent in securing volume with margins that reflect the level of service and quality we provide to our customers.
From a commercial perspective with the category continuing to show meaningful signs of improvement we are maintaining our focus on striking the right balance between volume performance and price realization.
We are taking a balanced approach to managing share and operational performance as we focus on sustaining long-term growth.
Within the grocery channel our brands average $3.66 at retail down $0.42 versus Q3 2014 and down $0.09 versus Q2 2015.
As a result the price gap between our brands and private label has expanded 9% year-over-year from $0.66 to $0.72.
Also as compared to Q2 of 2015 there's only a $0.06 decline in the price gap.
The sequential declines in terms of both price and price gap are partially reflective of promotional pricing associated with our DairyPure launch.
In MULO+C Store while our branded white milk volumes are down almost 4% year-over-year our dollar share is the highest in three years.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q3 we averaged 34.3%.
This is 10 basis points better than both Q2 2015 and Q3 2014.
As a reminder our branded white milk mix includes DairyPure and all of our other brands both of which have varying economics across different channels and geographies.
Given the continuation of higher price gaps at retail we are extremely pleased with our branded mix and sequential growth from Q2 to Q3.
As we have previously discussed these data points have been adjusted for the Q4 2014 switch from Dean branded products to private label products by one of our large customers within the club channel.
Our flavored mild volume performance was up almost 1% versus last year.
With improving flavored milk category performance within retail in Q3 TruMoo volume in MULO+C Store grew 4% and our private label flavored milk volume grew by 14% versus prior year ago period.
As a category flavored milk continues to show strong volume growth this year and is on pace to achieve its best performance since 2011.
In addition to our strong financial results for the quarter our national white milk brand DairyPure has shown initial positive results behind the support of incremental advertising and promotional spend.
I'd like to take a few minutes to provide you with some insights regarding DairyPure.
As we have discussed over the long term we expect DairyPure to provide a number of clear benefits for the consumers the category retail customers and certainly for the company.
For consumers DairyPure is on trend with the desire for clean label wealth resource fresh protein and nutrient-packed products.
So far we have seen strong brand awareness scores and repeat trial scores with over 80% of those who have tried DairyPure trying the product again.
Additionally our consumers are playing back our key advertising messages that focus on our five point purity promise.
You will recall our five point purity promise states that our farmers pledged not to use artificial growth hormones.
We test all milk for antibiotics.
This continually quality tested to ensure purity it's only from cows fed a healthy diet and its cold shipped from your local dairy.
We are very pleased with what we're seeing in terms of DairyPure's volume performance in the first few months following its national launch.
DairyPure has been purchased by over 20% of U.S.
homes.
And we believe this can grow as we continue our investment behind the brand and target additional ACV gains.
DairyPure is already in six times more households than any other national white milk competitor brand.
Since launch our dollar and unit velocity has improved in each consecutive month.
And given recent gains with vertical customers and several large key grocery customers the momentum behind DairyPure although early is very promising.
For our retail partners DairyPure has enabled us to rationalize over 1 000 UPCs down to fewer than 300 nationally.
While we've retained our regional brands on the labels because of the equity associated with them DairyPure has allowed us to be able to reach more consumers through advertising and coupons and has enabled an upcoming cross-brand promotion within one of our largest customers.
From a company perspective DairyPure has given us our first multibillion-dollar brand within our product portfolio.
DairyPure has annual retail sales projections of about $2.5 billion or about $4 billion when adding food service and other distribution outlets.
But maybe most importantly DairyPure has provided our sales organization with a strong selling story and value proposition to present through our customers while concurrently allowing us to affect the successful go-to-market strategy for our national brands this year.
When we launched DairyPure in April we made it clear that we were going to make incremental investment behind the brand to support its growth and our objectives.
Remember on an annual basis I'd call the amount of incremental investment modest.
To-date we have invested the majority of our DairyPure spend in advertising consumer promotions and research.
While this investment is small relative to other CPG peers our national buying capability that stems from having a national fresh white milk brand will allow us to reach nearly 80% of our target audience in 2015 as many as 25 times since the May launch.
Despite a shift to digital media driving consumer awareness our investment in television advertising has been the primary source of ad awareness for our consumers as over 71% of our consumers recall learning about DairyPure from TV.
DairyPure is allowing us to cost effectively talk to and educate consumers on the benefits and attributes of fresh milk.
And as DairyPure brings consumers back to the category we believe over time we can improve our branded mix.
We believe that the progress at DairyPure and continued success of TruMoo will provide us with a platform and enable a roadmap for our commercial and brand initiatives moving forward.
The initial launch of DairyPure and the extension into creams and creamers and half-and-half is behind us.
And schools are converting to DairyPure packaging as we speak.
We are excited about the balance of the year activity and extension of innovation plans as we look forward into 2016.
To drive increased distribution flexibility and sales velocity we have developed year-round UPCs for limited-time-offering flavors that will allow us to cycle seasonal TruMoo varieties through the dairy case and improve availability.
We have also secured our first cross-brand promotion which is scheduled to start in late December.
Looking into 2016 we look to continue our brand and commercial momentum through extensions into the lactose-free category and nutrient-enriched products.
While these represent just a few key upcoming initiatives we look forward to generating sustainable growth from our brands through consumer insights innovation line extensions and expansion into adjacencies that leverage our existing network and capabilities.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg.
And good morning everyone.
I'll walk through a summary of the Q3 adjusted operating results as well as provide a review of our balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year-ago quarter while total volumes declined 2.3% our Q3 gross profit increased due to price adjustments for our private label products pricing actions and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio volume-driven performance from our portfolio of ice cream products and declining shrink costs correlated to the dramatic commodity declines.
The positive impact of these factors was partially offset by mix shifts and fixed-cost deleverage within our operating plans.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $492 million in Q3.
This represents a $74 million improvement versus a year ago quarter and represents our highest third quarter gross profit since 2012.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased about $22 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $7 million primarily due to incremental investment in advertising and promotions as well as new graphics for a portion of our fleet DairyPure of course.
The increase is also partially due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including increases in health benefit costs offset by lower fuel-related costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with higher earnings and advertising.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive compensation were only up $2 million versus year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $52 million to $62 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense increased $2 million from the year-ago period.
The marginally higher interest expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.30.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $101 million a $51 million increase from prior year.
Overall our operating results are reflective of solid execution across all of our functions.
For Q3 gross profit per gallon improved 21% versus Q3 2014.
For the quarter operating income was $62 million or $0.094 a gallon which represents almost an $0.08 per gallon increase versus the year-ago period and as Gregg mentioned is the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
The quarterly improvement in our financial results is predominantly due to the pricing actions we have taken and their effect on net price realization.
Turning now to our free cash flow performance.
Year-to-date cash flow from continuing operations was $322 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $81 million resulting in strong free cash flow from continuing operations of $241 million.
Excluding the $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund received in Q1 our free cash flow from continuing operations was $185 million.
This is $226 million higher than the prior comparable year due to our strong operating results and reduced working capital investment.
Our invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down $68 million year-over-year on the back of an approximately 30% year-over-year decline in the Class I raw milk price.
Our year-to-date free cash flow through Q3 2015 has been primarily utilized to refinance extend and pay down our debt to pay our dividend and to opportunistically repurchase our shares.
From a balance sheet perspective total net debt outstanding was $777 million as of the end of the third quarter.
This is $124 million lower than year-end 2014 as we've utilized our strong free cash flow to reduce debt and build cash within the context of ongoing dividend payments and our opportunistic Q3 share repurchase.
On an all-cash netted basis our total leverage has improved to 2.09 times net debt-to-EBITDA.
This represents the third sequential quarterly improvement and is nearly 2.5 full turns lower than the end of 2014.
Following the Q1 debt refinancing and strong financial performance through Q3 our balance sheet restoration work that began in 2012 is now complete.
Since initiating our dividend and replenishing our share repurchase authorization in late 2013 we have emphasized our strategy to continue to have an opportunistic mindset regarding various options related to the use of our excess cash.
We may choose to invest in our business or execute M&amp;A or distribute cash to shareholders via cash dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
In this regard we have maintained our $0.07 per quarter dividend cadence since Q1 2014 and completed a $25 million share repurchase also in Q1 2014.
As previously noted during Q3 we executed $53 million in share repurchases.
Over eight days we've successfully repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares or 3.4% of total shares outstanding.
We repurchased our shares at an average price of $16.73 which is approximately 15% below our 52-week high.
Based on this year's quarterly earnings our Q3 share repurchases are immediately accretive to future quarters by approximately $0.01 per diluted earnings per share.
Since 2014 we have returned approximately 50% of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Now I'll turn the call back to Gregg who will provide some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Looking forward to Q4 with the continuation of commercial and brand initiatives diligent cost focus seasonal demand driving beneficial product mix and an overall favorable commodity environment which is supportive we expect to close out this year with a strong fourth quarter results.
Including the accretive impact from the share repurchases in the third quarter we expect Q4 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.28 and $0.38 per share resulting in a full year 2015 adjusted diluted earnings per share of between $1.15 and $1.25.
On a full-year basis we expect adjusted EBITDA of approximately $400 million and capital expenditures of approximately $150 million.
Going forward I believe we have significant opportunities to build strong brands while focusing on our cost structure and growing our business across multiple channels in order to continue to improve our financial results.
In closing I'd also like to acknowledge and thank our employees who take great pride in their work and allow us to keep the commitments that we make to our customers and fulfill our vision to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Certainly.
And our first question comes from Jonathan Feeney.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Jonathan.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about  pretty impressive reduction in the total number of UPCs on DairyPure.
Does that enable more  broader thinking about rationalization activity in the future? It certainly takes a lot of complexity out of your system.
Can you then  does it make it easier to if the industry stays stagnant declines a little bit close incremental facilities or move volume from one place to another? Was that part of the rationale there? And I had a follow-up on that too.
Okay.
Yeah Jonathan I would tell you that anything that we can do to eliminate complexity in our system is a positive.
And I think doing what we did with DairyPure facilitates that to some degree.
I think we've also in many cases though continued to look at opportunities to reduce our complexity further.
So yeah I think you're spot on as far as the opportunity that it provides us not only from a logistics perspective but from a manufacturing perspective.
Okay.
And just following up with that thought.
You had a big club customer as you mentioned last year go from branded to all private label.
When you have conversations with big customers who are maybe considering that kind of activity maybe that customer itself I mean what does the presentation look like when you say hey dairy especially now with DairyPure but all of our brands are bringing a lot of value to you; here is how they are bringing them? What are the two or three big points you hit with those customers? You haven't lost any incremental  you haven't seen similar activity this year so is that pitch kind of working or is the trend towards more and more private-label over time? Thanks.
Well I would tell you that obviously that happened in the fourth quarter of last year before we introduced DairyPure.
So I would tell you the pitch is working that customers should be carrying DairyPure because consumers are asking for it.
And think that  I think we're seeing some of that and I think we'll continue to see more as we continue to educate consumers about the benefits of DairyPure.
So we're not hearing a lot about it right now.
That doesn't mean that somebody might not be thinking about it.
But I would tell you that I think DairyPure does give us the platform and the communication vehicle to be able to convince customers that they ought to be carrying DairyPure and not a private label or a control brand of some kind.
The other thing I'd offer Jonathan is remember that that conversation with the retailers is probably most relevant in grocery where you have branded products and private label products.
In club and in small format you really tend to only have a brand.
And so that's why we think our proposition is most compelling because as we've talked in the past where our brands are the number-one or the number-two brand in 80% of the markets we serve we have retailers coming to us looking for our strong regional brand and that's even before you begin to apply the power of DairyPure.
So we actually see that as the trend probably moving more toward our brands being even more competitive in those other channels that are not grocery.
Okay.
I think I get it.
Thanks very much.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Robert Moskow.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Clay Crumbliss on for Rob.
I know you're not giving guidance for 2016 but can you just talk about your ability to grow EBITDA from what you are guiding to this year at $400 million in 2016? And then secondly what sort of incremental marketing are you looking at for DairyPure next year? Well I think Clay I would tell you that obviously we're not going to talk about 2016 because we haven't provided any guidance.
I'd tell you that right now we're remaining focused on our commercial and cost productivity agenda as we finish out this fiscal year.
I think that we have the wherewithal though as we look forward to continue to improve upon our financial results.
So without giving any guidance I'd say that yeah we'll continue to improve our financial results going forward.
And I think our investment behind DairyPure will continue as it will with TruMoo and others.
We haven't really finalized 2016 plans yet so I can't tell you as to whether it's more or less than what it was in 2015.
So with that I'll see if Chris wants to add anything to that.
That's exactly right Gregg.
The only thing I would add is Clay you might  stay focused on the longer-term algorithm that we have talked about.
So we've talked for quite a while now about our ability over time to be able to grow EBIT in the mid single-digit range.
And without talking about 2016 plans which as Gregg said are still kind of being crafted nothing that we see shakes our confidence in that long-term algorithm that we talked about.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Ken.
Chris you talked about the reasons behind the gross margin strength or some of them anyway and I think you highlighted private-label price adjustments.
There was some other pricing which I missed frankly in branded milk and then ice cream volumes.
Can you talk about even just roughly which of these are the most important in terms of pushing the margin higher? I'm sure it's the milk side but sort of any color you can give on that and just why the private-label pricing adjustments were made.
That would be helpful.
Yeah.
You're absolutely right.
Given the predominance of the milk business it's the bigger driver.
Although even with ice cream being a smaller portion both volume growth and better net price realization within ice cream was a meaningful contributor in the quarter.
So back within milk on the branded side clearly the more aggressive stance that we took on pricing early in the year as milk commodity prices began to come down has continued to contribute throughout the year.
And the private label piece last year as the very difficult commodity environment was playing out we made choices around both private label and pricing that we had executed in the fourth quarter last year.
And so that's the piece that you see that has flowed through to private label gross margin improvements all of this year as well.
That's helpful Chris.
And then just one more from me.
In the past you've talked about the desire to add new products to your base rate organically or through acquisitions.
Does the recent share repurchase  does that change that strategy in any way or is it more you just saw an opportunity and your balance sheet was in a position where you could take advantage of an attractive stock price? I think it was all about opportunistic.
It doesn't change our long-term algorithm at all.
We saw an opportunity and felt like it was a good opportunity.
So no.
I would tell you it doesn't change our outlook.
Thank you Gregg.
And our next question comes from John Baumgartner.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks for the question.
Gregg I would like to ask about DairyPure.
And then I guess it's still very early days but how are you thinking about the opportunities to extend that label across your other products like the culture products and ice creams? I mean is there a situation where your branded competitors in those categories are using milk sourced from hormone-treated cows where you might have an advantage and maybe grow those businesses going forward? Look I would say it's one that  stay tuned because we believe that DairyPure once established in the consumers' mind has a lot of adjacency capabilities.
So we will continue to look at it.
I think you saw that already in the third quarter as we introduced creams and creamers and half-and-half.
We're now extending DairyPure into the schools and putting it on our school milk.
And I think I spoke about it in our written comments about lactose-free.
As we enter 2016 we'll enter the lactose-free category which is an area that we really haven't played in a lot.
So yeah.
I think there continues to be additional adjacencies and line extensions that we can take DairyPure into.
And Gregg you made a brief comment about expanding into adjacencies in your prepared remarks.
Do you feel that you have the capabilities internally to go and pursue those adjacencies or would that come through M&amp;A? I think it will depend on what the adjacency is.
So we've got some certain manufacturing capabilities and distribution capabilities obviously that can take a regional brand national pretty quickly.
We also have manufacturing network that's second to none in my opinion.
So I think it will depend on which one it is.
So there's some that we can do it within our own portfolio and expand within our portfolio and build the brand.
Or there may be opportunities that we need to go out and buy a brand or one of the categories or adjacencies that we need to be in.
Great.
And then Chris just in terms of thinking about EBIT per gallon going forward I guess it wasn't too long ago that $0.07 per gallon was kind of aspirational for you.
And in the past two quarters you're closer to $0.09 to $0.10 EBIT per gallon range.
How do you think about  with between commodity volatility and underlying cost savings coming through what's the right way to think about a new normal for Dean if there is one in terms of EBIT per gallon? So we talked about  this time last year we were talking about could we get back to $0.08 a gallon in 2015.
That was a marker that we had established in 2013.
Obviously it didn't get anywhere close to that through all of 2014.
But we said as we take some of these pricing actions as cost productivity initiatives continue to gain traction and play out can we get back to $0.08 a gallon in 2015.
And obviously as you've said we've now gone beyond that and by some measures perhaps well beyond that.
So I think the focus going forward into 2016 and beyond kind of to my earlier question to I think it was Clay's question if we're going to achieve our longer-term goals of mid single-digit operating income growth continued rate improvement is going to be a major part in that because our focus there given the challenges that the category continues to experience the focus is going to be more on rate than it is on volume.
Great.
Thanks Chris.
You bet.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> I apologize; I had to hop on late so if this is something that you already covered in the slide presentation I'll get back to it.
But I just  I'm trying to remember Gregg whether you were at Dean when the local and regional brands were very profitable relative to private label.
And then obviously that got wiped out around the Great Recession.
And so I just wanted to get a sense  early days again on DairyPure but where  as the brand gets established where can it go relative to history when local and regional brands had some equity in the minds of consumers? And is it really just about the price premium that you could get for it or is  how much of the economies of scale and what cost advantages you can have with that single national brand platform? Maybe just kind of maybe frame that for us if possible.
Well I don't know all the history Eric but I think as we look at DairyPure and the opportunities that it avails itself I think the biggest thing that I see is just getting the consumers back to what I think is a category that's very on trend as I talked about in my prepared remarks.
But I think it's really about how do we convert people from private label into branded products.
And I think DairyPure seems to be going down that path.
So like I said I can't speak to the historical norms but I think it's much more than just a pricing mechanism.
I think it truly is a differentiating product and at least that's the feedback that we continue to get from our consumers and early on read.
So whether it can get back to the historical regional and locals I don't know.
But Chris do you want to...
Eric the other thing I'd say is if the period of time you're talking about where I think you sort of said the profitability of the brands was wiped out that was kind of that 2009-2010 timeframe.
Maybe you and I could debate the history of that.
But I actually think for processors in general certainly Dean Foods included in that group the profit wipeout that occurred then was actually more focused on private label and less on brands.
Our brands have certainly felt their own pressure over the last five years or so since the start of the Great Recession.
But I would tell you I think we've felt more pressure on the private label side than on the branded side.
It goes back to something I said a second ago.
Our very strong brand offering even before DairyPure our strong regional brand equity allowed the profitability there to weather that storm with retailers better than the private label business did.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for that.
Next question really more on the cost side.
I don't again know if you talked about this but where are you in terms of the DSD capacity utilization? And in terms of any sense on the industry's processing capacity utilization and whether that's improved a bit since maybe last quarter or last time we spoke about it? Yeah.
I would tell you Eric I feel really good about our actions we're taking to improve our cost structure.
I think our cost productivity continues to be very focused agenda.
We unfortunately shut down another facility in the third quarter.
And we continue to keep trying to find that balance in trade-offs of improved rate utilization and clearly benefiting the income statement as a whole.
But I think it's one where  if we look at our asset utilization today it's as high as it's been since the time that I've been here.
I'm looking around the room to see if anybody's going to shake their head yes or no.
But I would tell you that I think it's as high as any time that I've been here.
And I think that'll continue to improve because I think we continue to get better and better at driving our own internal efficiencies which then allows us to take additional costs out of the system.
And that's what we need to continue to do as we move forward.
I can tell you from a logistics standpoint we continue to drive the utilization of our trucks.
It's the big items that we continue to focus on our frequency and our asset utilization within our distribution network.
And I think the logistics team is all over it.
So I feel good about where we're at from a cost perspective.
The only thing I'd point you to Eric for capacity utilization is the dramatic improvement in the category.
A year ago we're sitting here looking at a 3.6% decline in category.
Now it's just 90 basis points.
So that improvement if that 90 basis points if you can sort of play that forward that 2.7 percentage points of improvement against the 6 billion gallon category that represents almost 170 million more gallons for the industry something to the extent of five or six plants that previously would have been empty but now would be full with that improved category.
So that in itself would do an awful lot for category industry utilization.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
All right.
Thank you.
Take care.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just had a question for you if I could on  we talked last quarter about some more  and it's typical at this time when milk prices are so low but some more RFP activity.
And competitive conditions are always high in this category.
I just thought I would see if  are you seeing any incremental new volume you are taking on? Maybe related to that is there any greater focus on profitability over volumes such that market share  volume-based market share isn't maybe the best metric for measuring Dean Foods here in the short run? I think we're still seeing normal levels in the marketplace from RFPs.
We're not seeing anything out of the ordinary at least within our industry.
So I don't think that that's doing anything  and I'll let Chris speak to the price versus volume scenario.
But from my perspective I think we're going to continue to try and balance whether that's the right KPI or not.
I can't speak to...
Chris I'd pick up exactly where Gregg just left off kind of around balance.
I think this year we have tried to pursue a price volume strategy that's striking the right balance.
We've clearly put our best foot forward on pricing this year.
And as a result you've seen our results what I would characterize as modest maybe even a very modest decline in our share down 60 bps versus prior-year quarter.
So we think that balance that our field teams have been able to strike between price and share has been one of our keys to success this year.
That remains very much our focus looking forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And maybe just one follow-up question if I could.
In relation to all the cost reduction activities that are occurring across the company from another plant closure to the logistics cost savings that are coming through maybe rather than looking forward assuming you don't want to do that but what is the  was there a gross level of cost savings you expect for this year for 2015? And can you give us any kind of indication for that number maybe in 2016 continuing as well? Yeah.
I mean we've always said that we kind of targeted an $80 million to $100 million of cost reductions.
If you look at where we're at on a rate basis on a per gallon basis we need to have declining costs.
So I think if you  we've made some reinvestment into our business this year and put some money into our plants and into our logistics network to re-wrap trailers and to upgrade a few of our facilities that needed some work.
But if you take the one-time expenses out of there we were actually seeing sequential decline or a reduced decline from a year ago.
So our cost basis continues to be  it will always be a focus as long as we're running this thing because it's where the biggest opportunity lies to allow us to reinvest behind the rest of our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Alexia Howard.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Hi Alexia.
Hi.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First of all on advertising spending you've obviously started to put that behind the DairyPure brand.
Do you anticipate that that's going to be ramping up over the next several years or are you pretty happy with where you are at the moment? I think we're pretty happy with where we're at right now.
I think as we come out and start with additional line extensions depending on how big any of those line extensions are we may need to ramp it up a touch but I'm pretty happy with where we're at right now.
And I think as we continue to get in to build other brands we'll obviously have introductory needs from a marketing perspective but I'm pretty happy with where we're at.
That other brand is a good piece to be clear on as well.
Alexia keep in mind that a portion of this year's advertising investment has also gone against TruMoo.
It's not just a DairyPure investment.
Great.
And just as a quick follow-up.
How confident are you that the share losses are pretty much behind you now? I mean we look at new brands coming up like fairlife Horizon Organic seems to be doing a bit better at the moment.
Are you really confident that this kind of share is roughly where you are going to stay? Thank you.
And I will pass it on.
All right.
I am confident that it's about where we will stay if not pick it up as we try to increase our brand mix versus our private label.
And I think if you look to the sequential nature from second quarter to third quarter we picked up 10 basis points.
That's still really early on in DairyPure but I would anticipate that that would continue to grow as we continue to push DairyPure.
Thank you.
And I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen I will now turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
And have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Earnings conference call.
Please note that todays call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time Id like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance Ms.
Sherri Baker.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you Kat and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SECs website at SEC.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies todays prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of todays call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout todays call the earnings per share operating income interest expense EBITDA and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on todays call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives the timing of product launches our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases our leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on todays conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the companys periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in todays earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of todays call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our fourth quarter and full year performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Sherri and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
You may have noticed that the voice you heard was not Scott Vopni.
Scott has recently moved over to lead our field finance organization in addition to his role as Chief Accounting Officer.
Joining us on the call today is Sherri Baker who we recently promoted to VP of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance.
This morning we reported fourth quarter adjusted diluted earnings of $0.36 per share towards the high end of our previously provided guidance range.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $67 million which equates to over $0.10 a gallon.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in operating income.
From a full-year perspective we reported adjusted operating income of $248 million and an adjusted diluted earnings of $1.23 per share.
Full year adjusted EBITDA was $404 million and we generated $246 million of free cash flow.
In 2015 we maintained our commitment to return cash to shareholders.
Between our quarterly dividend and the Q3 share repurchase we returned $79 million to shareholders or approximately 69% of full-year adjusted net income.
Im very pleased with the sequential improvement we saw in our operational and financial performance from Q3 to Q4.
I believe the full year 2015 financial results demonstrate that we have chosen the right initiatives to focus on and we are executing at very high levels.
As I look to the future I believe our financial position and the momentum of our strong operating performance will allow us to continue to grow our business and create shareholder value.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to discuss the dairy commodity landscape.
We expect global dairy fundamentals to continue to be overall supportive to our business as production growth continues to outpace demand.
Year-over-year total milk production from the top seven exporters continues to increase albeit at a much slower pace compared to the initial robust expansion experienced in 2014.
The EU remains a leading contributor as their milk production has increased year-over-year by more than 5% largely due to the elimination of milk quotas at the end of March of last year.
This is meaningful when one considers that the overall size of the European dairy production is over 1.5 times larger than that of the U.S.
and approximately seven times larger than that of New Zealand.
The rapidly expanding EU supply has taken place against the backdrop of an ongoing Russian import ban.
Moreover China seems to remain well supplied as its greater than 2% year-over-year milk supply growth stabilizes and demand holds against the backdrop of lackluster economic performance.
In the U.S.
we continue to see gradual domestic supply growth due to a slightly larger herd and productivity growth more than offsetting the impact of the drought in California.
These supply and demand factors should contribute to a relatively benign dairy commodity environment over the short term.
With regards to the winter storms in the southwest and northeast we empathize with the farmers and ranchers who had to manage through those storms but as you know Dean Foods has a longstanding and demonstrated history of operational excellence during severe and inclement weather incidences.
With the flexibility of our milk supply and our national network we operated through both winter storms with minimal impact to our processing operations our customers or our consumers.
In Q4 raw milk costs were essentially flat to Q3.
The quarterly average cost for the fourth quarter was $16.34 per hundredweight which represents a decline of $7.25 or 31% on a year-over-year basis.
Overall we experienced relatively modest cost movements within the quarter.
With regards to the dairy commodity outlook raw milk costs for the first quarter will average $14.49 per hundredweight which represents an approximately 11% decrease sequentially and approximately 14% year-over-year.
On a per-gallon basis this equates to a sequential decline of $0.16 and year-over-year decline of $0.20.
Moving to pricing through the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class 1 mover and the retail price of private label gallons of fresh milk in the grocery channel declined at a heightened rate as compared with modest changes in the cost of raw milk.
While the Class 1 mover average remained flat the margin over milk decreased from $1.54 per gallon in Q3 to $1.48 per gallon in Q4.
Decembers margin over milk exit rate was $1.44 nearly $0.09 per gallon down from Septembers margin over milk.
This reflects the low point in 2015 as retailers compressed margins despite the relatively flat cost of raw milk.
We recognize these levels of margin over milk have not been seen since 2014; however we do not believe this is indicative of material pricing tensions within the marketplace.
Our volume performance continues to be impacted by choices we have made with respect to our rate realization strategy and channel dynamics offset by an improving category.
In the fourth quarter total Dean Foods volumes across all products of 658 million gallons were largely in line with our expectations.
The declines in our fluid milk products were largely due to private label losses from a few large format customers and represent a 3.6% year-over-year decline.
Specifically within large format private label white milk volume in Q4 declined 9% year-over-year.
Across our other non-fluid milk product categories year-over-year volume declines were largely offset by a more than 11% increase in our ice cream volume performance.
On a full year basis total volumes for all products declined approximately 3% to 2.6 billion gallons.
Fluid milk sales data published by USDA through December show a Q4 decline of 1.1% on a year-over-year basis.
This caps off the year with another quarter of strong performance and shows an improvement in the health of the fluid milk category.
Similarly category revivals are seen at retail within IRI-based data with Q4 fluid milk sales experiencing a 1% decline year-over-year.
This marks the best category performance at retail going back through at least 2011.
In tandem with these indicators of recovery is a marked year-over-year decline in the growth of both organic and almond milk categories.
After stabilizing in the first three quarters of 2015 we saw a modest decline in our Q4 share sequentially down 50 basis points from 35.2% to 34.7%.
This share change was driven mostly by the loss of large format private label volume concentrated among a few customers predominantly in one region where significant milk over-supply has led to more aggressive pricing by processors and cooperatives.
In Q4 our branded white milk share only declined 10 basis points versus Q3.
Across the majority of our markets fluid milk volume performance is meeting or exceeding our expectations.
We remain diligent in securing volume with margins that reflect a level of service and quality we provide to our customers.
Balancing share and price realization will continue to be a point of focus in 2016.
We are taking a balanced approach to managing volume margin and price realization as we focus on sustaining long-term growth.
Throughout 2015 we have worked diligently to manage our brands value at retail both through price points and price gaps.
Within the grocery channel our brands average $3.60 per gallon at retail down $0.48 versus Q4 of 2014 and down $0.06 versus Q3 2015.
As a result the price gap between our brands and private label was $0.71 per gallon a $0.05 increase versus Q4 of 2014.
As compared to Q3 of 2015 there was only a penny decline in the price gap.
The declines in price gap versus the first half of 2015 are partially reflective of promotional pricing associated with our DairyPure launch.
For the full year the price gap to private label was $0.74 a $0.09 increase versus 2014.
These price points and price gaps demonstrate that we successfully managed the relationships and balance we set out to achieve.
It further demonstrates that DairyPure is strengthening our brand value with consumers.
In MULO+C store while our branded white milk volumes are down around 3% year-over-year our dollar share is up 50 basis points versus a year ago.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q4 we averaged 35.7%.
This is 140 basis points better than Q3 of 2015 and 80 basis points better than Q4 of 2014.
As a reminder our branded while milk mix includes DairyPure and all of our other brands all of which have varying economics across different channels and geographies.
Given the continuation of higher price gaps at retail we continue to be pleased with our branded mix and sequential growth from Q3 to Q4.
As we have previously discussed these data points have been adjusted for the Q4 2014 switch from Dean branded products to private label products by one of our large customers within the club channel.
The flavored milk category has been a success story for the industry in 2015.
The retail category volumes saw a marked improvement with a 10% increase in Q4 and 7% for the full year versus same time periods in 2014.
Within MULO+C store TruMoo volume grew 2.5% and our private label flavored milk volume grew by 12% versus 2014.
Across all channel our total flavored milk year-over-year volume was down just 20 basis points for Q4 and essentially flat for the full year.
The positive volume growth we see in both the category and our TruMoo products is a great fit for bringing innovative new products including five seasonal flavors for year-round availability.
Our national while milk brand DairyPure has shown positive results behind the support of incremental advertising and promotional spend.
For the full year total advertising investment across all products was $45 million a 63% increase versus 2014.
In addition we are able to leverage DairyPure in exciting new co-promotions on a national scale as demonstrated with our recent advertising partnerships with Mondelez and Oreo cookies in Wal-Mart stores.
We believe that the progress of DairyPure and the continued success of TruMoo will provide us with a platform and enable our road map for our commercial and brand initiatives moving forward.
We believe we can drive additional velocity and share through innovation customer partnerships focused channel penetration and new distribution.
Looking to 2016 we will continue our brand and commercial momentum by extending DairyPure into the lactose-free category launching nutrient rich products like the recently launched TruMoo Calcium Plus and driving category excitement through year-round limited time offerings under our TruMoo brand.
Additionally as the only fresh dairy company in the U.S.
able to advertise nationally well continue to drive new distribution of our DairyPure products including fluid milk half-and-half and whipping cream.
While product line extensions are important entering growth categories is equally important.
Through a long-term partnership with the Caribou Coffee Company starting in March we will launch Caribou Iced Coffee in a ready-to-drink coffee space.
Building off our strong ice cream performance this year we have made significant formulation upgrades to our ice cream brands and made investments in our ice cream innovation pipeline to meet evolving consumer needs.
Our commercial organization has a sharp focus on volume growth through innovation and increasing distribution points in customers and in channels with products of attractive margin profiles.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
Ill walk through the Q4 and full-year results as well as provide a review of our balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year ago quarter while total volumes declined 3.6% in Q4 our gross profit increased due to several key factors including pricing actions and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio volume-driven performance from our portfolio of ice cream products and declining costs and ingredients and packaging savings.
The positive impact of these factors was partially offset by mix shifts and fixed cost deleverage within our operating plants.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $509 million in Q4.
This represents a $66 million improvement versus the year-ago quarter and represents our highest fourth quarter gross profit since 2012.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased approximately $25 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $10 million primarily due to incremental investment in advertising and promotions.
The increase is also partially due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including increases in health benefit costs offset by lower fuel-related costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with higher earnings and advertising.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive comp were up $7 million versus year-ago levels driven by bad debt expense and other non-recurring expenses.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $41 million to $67 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense increased $1 million from the year-ago period.
The marginally higher interest rate expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yield adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.36.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $107 million a $40 million increase from $67 million in the prior year period.
On a full year basis gross profit increased $297 million driven by price realization and lower input costs.
Operating expenses including incentive comp and advertising increased $86 million which represents a 5% increase versus year-ago levels.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $20 million primarily due to incremental advertising expense.
With incentive comps up year over year due to strong operating performance general and administrative expenses increased $65 million.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $211 million to a total of $248 million.
Below operating income a $6 million increase in interest expense coupled with a normalized adjusted 38% tax rate resulted in a full-year adjusted net income of $115 million or adjusted diluted earnings of $1.23 per share.
For 2015 adjusted EBITDA was $404 million up 208 versus year-over-year.
Overall our full year operating results are reflective of solid execution across all our functions.
For Q4 gross profit per gallon improved 19% versus Q4 2014.
For the quarter operating income was $67 million or $0.102 a gallon which represents a $0.064 per gallon increase versus the year-ago period and an increase of almost a penny sequentially.
As Gregg mentioned Q4 is the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
The improvement in our financial results is predominantly due to the pricing actions we have taken and their effect on net price realization.
On a full-year basis gross profit per gallon improved 22% versus 2014.
Full-year operating income was $248 million or $0.094 per gallon which represents an $0.081 per gallon increase versus the year-ago period.
We continue to execute against our cost productivity agenda across all facets of our supply chain.
In 2015 we closed two additional plants further reducing excess capacity in our network and driving higher asset utilization and efficiency.
We will offset a portion of the savings in increased transportation costs also known as the distribution penalty; however we do continue to see volume deleverage outpacing the benefits we expected to realize from network optimization.
We are continuing to look for opportunities to optimize our network across the supply chain.
To address volume deleverage and the distribution penalty or the increased miles drive resulting from plant closures our logistics organization continues to make meaningful improvements through delivery reductions and filling our trucks.
This focus led to an $11.2 million reduction in miles equating to a 7% year-over-year reduction.
In addition our efforts resulted in a 2.1 million gallon reduction in fuel usage representing nearly a 6% reduction in overall fuel usage.
On the sustainability front we continue to make progress in reductions in our production facilities.
On an annual basis we drove a 1.3% reduction in kilowatt usage a 1.9% reduction in natural gas consumption and a 2.65% reduction in solid waste.
We experienced a slight increase in water usage of 1%.
In procurement we moved a significant portion of our dairy grade HDPE resin from a brokerage arrangement to an in-house procurement model.
As a result we have been able to eliminate brokerage costs and achieve lower costs for the raw material.
All told we delivered a solid cost productivity agenda in 2015.
Turning now to our free cash flow performance cash flow from continuing operations was $408 million for the 12 months ended December 31 2015.
This is $255 million higher than the prior year due to our strong operating results and lower working capital investment against the backdrop of an approximately 30% year-over-year decline in the Class 1 raw milk price.
We reinvested a portion of this operating cash flow into our business with capital expenditures totaling $163 million which is slightly elevated versus the guidance we provided on the previous call.
In Q4 we purchased an ice cream facility with capability to service both low and high altitudes in the western portion of the U.S.
This acquisition accounted for most of the increase in full-year capex relative to our previous guidance of $150 million.
For 2015 our free cash flow from continuing operations was $246 million.
Excluding the $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund received in Q1 our free cash flow from continuing operations was $190 million.
This is $185 million higher than the prior year.
Our full-year 2015 free cash flow has been primarily utilized to refinance extend and pay down our debt to pay our dividend and to opportunistically repurchase shares.
From a balance sheet perspective we reduced our total net debt outstanding to $782 million as of the end of the fourth quarter compared to $901 million as of the end of year 2014.
On an all-cash netted basis our total leverage has improved to 1.89 times net debt to EBITDA.
This represents the fourth sequential quarterly improvement and is over 2.5 full turns lower than where we began the year.
This highlights our ability to rapidly reduce leverage on the strength of our free cash flow while investing in our business and returning cash to shareholders.
Now Ill turn the call back to Gregg who will provide some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Looking forward to 2016 with the continuation of commercial and brand initiatives diligent cost focus and an overall favorable commodity environment we expect our strong operating and financial momentum to continue.
We expect adjusted Q1 earnings per share to be largely in line with our Q4 results.
Well continue to invest in incremental advertising to support our national brands and new product introductions as they help drive channel and distribution growth.
For the first quarter on a year-over-year basis we expect total volumes to decline low single digits with one additional selling day due to leap year.
All told we expect Q1 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.32 and $0.42 per share.
For full year 2016 we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $160 million consistent with our capital spend in 2015.
Going forward we are executing a clear vision for our company to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion.
We are strategically and organizationally aligned to position the company for long-term success and to create shareholder value.
Our agenda is clear and we are focused on initiatives and opportunities to first enhance future capabilities.
We will foster an engaged and aligned organization with a consumer mindset.
Well improve processes and technology to enable cross-functional decision-making to create opportunities to build our business.
Secondly well drive operational excellence.
As we increase plant and transportation efficiencies simplify our portfolio and standardize processes we will also optimize our network for efficiency and flexibility to deliver new products and routes to market.
Third well transform our go-to-market capabilities.
Well expand our reach to meet evolving consumer needs while more profitably serving customers through new delivery and production capabilities.
We will drive efficiencies through standardized business principles and customer collaboration.
Fourth well strengthen our private label business.
We will enhance profitability by lowering internal costs partnering with our customers and driving standard practices across our business.
We will strategically target key customers and growing channels.
Last well build and buy brands.
In addition to evaluating and considering strategic opportunities we will build our existing brands with consumer-led innovation marketing and logistical excellence.
Lastly I would like to congratulate our Division of the Year award winner the Michigan division.
Their operational excellence and profitable growth without compromising quality safety or service helped to make 2015 a terrific year for Dean Foods.
To all of our employees thank you for your hard work in 2015 and your relentless focus on executing our agenda.
I am confident in the momentum we carry into 2016.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for the question.
Gregg one of the areas that youve really tried to drive home for investors is the distribution cost opportunities in the first innings more or less yet we continue to see kind of that year-on-year growth in the selling and distribution line on the P&amp;L.
Can you maybe just walk through the opportunities there that you envision and maybe the timing for any realization of benefits on that front? Yes John I think its one where we continue to focus on the leverage.
I think if you look at the increase in the sales dollars or in the sales and logistics costs the majority of that is advertising so I think you have to ignore the sales cost side of it.
But there continues to be tremendous opportunity for us to reduce our logistics costs and the things were really focused on are filling up the trucks and secondly frequency.
We have to continue to drive frequency.
As we de-lever with the volumes we have to change our frequency of delivery to our customers so we continue to work on our frequency.
We also continue to work on the utilization cube utilization of our trucks and those are the two big pieces.
We also continue to look at our network.
We have a number of distribution points currently what we would call depots and we continue to look at the number of depots that we have and whether or not theyre located in the right places and are servicing the customers the way we need.
Okay and then as a follow-up as you get more and more traction behind DairyPure how should we think about your focus maybe more on driving the top line with mix into faster growth categories? You had some highlights on the Caribou and some of the ice cream growth there but when you think about internal capabilities whether it be R&amp;D the ESL pasteurization and so on what you can do internally versus what capabilities you have to really acquire into and are there assets out there in the market to go and make those acquisitions? Great question.
I would tell you that its probably all of the above.
When I think about the capabilities that we need to drive internally we need to drive corrugated capability we need to make sure we continue to focus on extended shelf life which then translates into facilitating our innovation pipeline.
We have invested more into our R&amp;D organization so trying to get a more robust innovation pipeline going not only across ice cream but across many of our other product lines.
So I think its all of the above and I think the majority of that we can do internally but well continue to look at opportunities from a brand perspective externally as well.
Great thanks Gregg.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Farah Aslam with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Farah.
Youre introducing a number of new products this year and I noticed in your prepared remarks you mentioned that marketing last year was up about $20 million.
Could you just give us a read on how much a rough estimate marketing should be up this year and if these number of new products you anticipate to be margin accretive this year or do you think this is an investment piece and that well get the benefits next year? Yes Ill take the first part of that and then Ill turn it over to Chris and let him talk about the accretive nature of the new products.
But from a marketing perspective we havent talked about how much we invest behind any of the given brands or introductions but Ill tell you that well continue to invest it at above category levels.
So our expectation this year as we introduce new products is we will make sure that we have the appropriate marketing expense behind those and then obviously well continue to support DairyPure and TruMoo this year as we have in past years.
I think you could expect that our marketing expenses will continue to rise.
With that let me turn it over to Chris and see if he wants to talk about the margin.
Yes Farah on balance across the portfolio of innovation and new product introductions in 2016 we expect it to be accretive.
As you can imagine within that portfolio of activities some are more accretive and some actually will pay out into the latter parts of 2016 even into 2017.
But on balance the entire slate of initiatives is accretive and remember on advertising we talked through 2015 about how our success throughout the year allowed us to opportunistically reinvest more in advertising so thats one of the reasons were a little reluctant to go too far into talking about 2016 plans because again we sort of retain that ability to invest behind successes as the year is going well.
Great and just as a follow-up your first quarter guidance was quite strong.
Do you anticipate this to be your biggest quarter of the year? I know you dont give annual guidance but some cadence on earnings throughout the year would be really helpful.
You know I think we expect the momentum to continue as we come out of the fourth quarter into the first quarter.
Its our expectation barring major commodity shifts and other issues we would expect the momentum to continue as we go throughout the year.
We dont see anything right now out there to tell us otherwise.
There are a number of moving parts in the Q1 guidance Farah so on the tailwind side of the equation as you could tell weve got favorable Class 1 costing which will translate into favorable gross profit for our Class 1 products.
We also have favorable overlap on incentive comp.
We talked throughout all of last year about above-plan performance leading to above-plan incentive comp so thats a favorable tailwind in Q1.
There are also a number of headwinds in Q1 so on the flipside of commodity pricing Class 2 costing due to the high butterfat cost will actually be a headwind and due to the higher fat content in Class 2 products that will offset some of the Class 1 upside.
Then obviously you heard Gregg guide to low single digit volume declines so that remains a headwind in the near term.
Then finally advertising expense up in Q1 year-over year - recall last year in Q1 we had not yet introduced DairyPure so this year youre now kind of into the fourth quarter of that rolling rollout.
So youve got a number of moving parts in there and obviously that will continue throughout the year as well.
Understood.
Very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
I guess my first question not to focus on the negative in some respects but I was a bit surprised that the volume was so weak.
I guess Gregg or Chris can you give a little bit more detail on--I guess you said it was one region and generally private label oriented.
Is that what really drove the weaker volume and then how should we think about that for the coming year? Ill take a shot at it and let Chris jump in but--and I think you hit it right on the head.
It is the majority of it is private label and it is primarily in the upper midwest.
If you think about the growth in the U.S.
milk supply that majority of that is coming out of the upper midwest and their milk supply was up 3.6% so theres a lot of over-supply in the upper midwest and that is where we saw the hit.
I dont think that will continue forever but that is where most of the milk supply is right now so the pressures in the upper midwest is where we saw that hit.
Im actually very encouraged by the overall improvement of the category and outside of the upper midwest Im encouraged by the volumes that were seeing and how well its holding up with the price realization that were getting.
And certainly encouraged by our mix as well.
Just a little bit more specificity around those numbers there if you go back to third quarter year-over-year total Dean Food volumes were down 15 million gallons versus prior and the fourth quarter we were down 25 million gallons year-over-year.
The majority of that increase the 10 million gallon step-down in growth rate was in private label white milk.
So you started off your question sort of describing it as a negative but in fact--you know certainly losing volume is a negative but at the end of the day we view that as kind of indicative of us executing against our strategy which is to on the private label white milk side be very choiceful around products that are at or near breakeven.
Thats a place that were putting a lot of scrutiny.
Okay and then as my follow-up I guess this is somewhat of a bigger picture question but it sounded like today youve decided to push more into new products into categories that maybe havent been as much of a focus - the iced coffee and ice cream and that would be--assuming youre successful that would be helpful to improving the utilization of the network.
As you know we kind of wrote a report about the DSD and the value of it.
So with regard to--it sounds like youre going to do what you can to fill up the trucks internally but to the extent that you now have a very strong balance sheet I guess what are you thinking in terms of other ways of rewarding shareholders with the cash flow and the balance sheet versus doing something more strategic with the DSD? I think youre seeing some of it now Eric as we look to expand our DairyPure platform as we look to expand our TruMoo platform and as we look to other beverages that we can put into our distribution network and well continue to look at that through other branded products as well.
I think what weve found as we have looked around finding national products of scale that could really not add a lot of complexity but add a lot of synergy to our network theyre hard to find so I think a lot of that weve got to be able to do internally.
But well continue to look for opportunities externally as well to try and fill the box up.
And then I think we have to continue to give more just basic blocking and tackling getting a whole lot more efficient in our network as well because I think that will improve our utilization.
And then on the balance sheet cash flow side? I think were going to continue on the path that weve been on and that is continue to pay our dividend.
Were going to continue to look opportunistically for share repurchase and were going to invest in our business not necessarily in that specific order.
All right Ill pass it on.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Alexia.
Can I just ask about the cost saving goal for this year? I think typically youve said $80 million to $100 million.
Is it in that ballpark again for this year or is there any more color on that? Its going to be in that same ballpark.
Were going to continue our strong focus around cost and productivity.
I think the difficult part is the deleverage so we have to stay focused on our cost structure.
I think the organization has done a great job of doing that and were going to continue to look at our network and see what we need to do to be more efficient and effective in what we do.
So no I think you should expect that our productivity will continue.
Great and just as a follow-up the DairyPure--well branded side of the fluid milk business were those volume trends year-on-year improving? I know you said you got a positive mix shift of 140 basis points at the end of last year but in terms of year-on-year volume growth how fast is that branded milk business growing at this point? I think since our launch weve seen our dollar and our unit velocity has improved in each consecutive month and weve seen some recent ACV gains.
I dont know exactly what the volume side of that is but I think weve seen several large key grocery customers that have taken it on so I cant tell you exactly what our volume gain has been but I know were getting ACV gains and were also seeing good velocities.
I think the other thing is we have got strong brand awareness scores in our repeat trial scores with over 80% of those who have tried DairyPure or trying the product again so were very pleased with the performance to date.
Its still early on but I think well see it continue.
Alexia our branded growth rates since the launch of DairyPure have definitely been improving and that improvement is coming still in the context of a pretty aggressive price environment.
Great thank you very much.
Ill pass it on.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Amit.
Chris could you give us some context on what is the contribution from one extra selling day in 1Q? Yes our gallons sold per day if youre going to go through the calculation is about 8 million gallons a day.
Okay so we should prorate that over total volume that would be the expected contribution for one extra day? Yes so for the quarter it ends up being about a percent of extra volume growth.
Got it.
And then just continuing the conversation on the branded if we look at the DairyPure it looks like unless I misheard that you lost some share on the branded side of it.
That tells me that maybe youre pushing a little bit more on the pricing side of it which is fine.
In terms of the payoff from that should we expect either the mix shift or the profit contribution from DairyPure to get better as youre able to establish that brand a bit more? Yes absolutely.
Youre describing exactly whats happening so sort of flat to modest share decline or modest share growth but that share performance in the context of substantially better gross profit per gallon performance.
Thats sort of the quantitative side of DairyPure.
On the qualitative side you saw in Greggs portion of the prepared remarks the new products that were able to roll out in 2016 so focused on those whipping cream and half-and-half items that today tend to have lower distribution than our branded white milk products and have attractive margin profiles.
So we think DairyPure--we think the branded white milk side of DairyPure very much is an enabler to increasing distribution and increasing volume on some of those other products.
This is a question to Gregg.
Gregg what are we seeing is that the deleveraging impact of volume losses continues to overwhelm.
Yes margins are up but if you look at the potential there it continues to offset the benefit that we get either from mix shift or cost savings.
Are you still convinced that it is the right strategy to maybe give up the volumes in favor of more price realization going forward? I am Amit.
I think as long as we can--you know when you look at the trade-off that were making the advantage we have is that we have such a large network available to us to continue to manage our way through the deleverage.
I think as you start seeing it at levels that we saw in the fourth quarter that means youve got to really pick up the cost savings to offset it.
So Id like to see that be a little less than it was in the fourth quarter and I think were seeing some of that momentum but that would be my biggest concern is that if we stayed at the levels we were at in the fourth quarter at some point you would have to start to shift that.
But to date Ive been extremely pleased with the trade-off that weve made in between the price realization and the deleverage that it has.
Again we still have a big network and an opportunity to take significant costs out of the network.
As you know Amit its all about which volume youre losing so you heard me I think in response to Erics question focus on private label white being the place where much of the volume decline in the fourth quarter and in fact throughout all of 2015 much of that volume decline was sourced from.
When you look in the fourth quarter and you see ice cream volumes up 11% and branded white milk volumes not yet growing but declining at a substantially slower rate than they had been that kind of mix shift in the context of overall declining volume is very powerful.
And then you throw the flavored milk category in on top of that and it starts to feel pretty good.
So just to wrap it up is it then more reasonable to expect that margins will remain stabilized or will be more sticky even if the commodity environment becomes less favorable given the mix shift? That would be our expectation.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Gottlieb with DA Davidson.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking my questions.
First touching off the expected milk decline for the first quarter if you take out the midwest region what do you expect for the rest of the country? I think well see California continue to decline.
I think well still see some slight growth in the northwest.
I think youll see the southwest bounce back more as they work their way through the storm and some of the issues but I think theyll continue to decline; and then I think youll see the northeast continue to go up as well.
So were expecting across the network anywhere between zero and 1% growth but well still see growth.
I think the other thing that wasnt in our prepared remarks is that were seeing export volumes continue to decline so its leaving more milk in the U.S.
which I think will help us longer term to kind of keep the prices more manageable as well.
Got it thank you.
Touching on costs I know youve made a large initiative to take miles driven out of your network.
If we could touch on this a little bit how much have you taken out over the last few quarters and how much do you think is left to go? I think in total the numbers that Chris went through were numbers for the total year.
I dont have the numbers right here in front of me.
So 11 million miles for last year 7% decline.
And we think weve only started to touch on the opportunities from a logistics perspective.
I think you should expect to see those kind of continue.
Also looking on those the relationship between volume decline and miles and gallons decline so were very focused on making sure that were taking out miles in excess of the rate of volume decline.
Given the decline in fuel costs and diesel how much of a tailwind was it in the quarter total logistics? We dont break out the specifics on that but were making sure people are cautious on first some of the decline is passed back to customers through pricing so in some of our pricing algorithms fuel is included as a variable.
So while youll see lower fuel costs on the logistics line youll also see lower revenue offsetting that dollar for dollar for a portion of that fuel savings.
Then another portion we had hedged earlier in the year at rates that turned out to be above market ultimately so the amount of savings that falls to the bottom line from lower diesel cost is probably a little bit less than what some people have calculated in the past.
So if you look at it Eric in the fourth quarter we had a $4.5 million hedge loss and in the first quarter of this year well still have a $3.6 million.
Okay great.
Then lastly on the guidance considering that were more than halfway through the quarter and Class 1 is set and volumes are largely expected we still have a range of $0.10.
Whats the reason for the large variability? Well I think it continues to be the variability that we see in the commodity markets.
I mean if you just look at the $2.45 drop that we saw from January to February we didnt expect it to drop at those levels so were still seeing volatility well beyond what we would expect going forward so we maintained the same $0.10 that we always have.
Okay great.
Ill pass it on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We do have time for one more question.
Our last question for today is going to come from the line of Ken Goldman with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Sherri I wanted to congratulate you on joining us in our group here but dealing with people like me maybe its more of a condolence.
Either way welcome aboard! Thank you.
I realize--and this question is for anyone.
I realize everyone uses different services for this but the forecasts that were seeing are calling for either flattish or very slight increases in the Class 1 mover sequentially from here.
Is that generally in line with what youre anticipating or is there something youre seeing that maybe we should be aware of as we model? No I think as we look--and again Ken my ability to forecast milk lately has not been very good so take that with a grain of salt.
But what Im seeing and what were seeing here is that through the first half of the year we expect it to be relatively benign.
I mean its going to start going up obviously from where its at now but we dont see it being significant.
As we go through the remainder of the year your guess is as good as mine.
Im going to guess yours is better than mine but well see.
And then Chris I just wanted to clarify something.
Did you say that the quarter or the year suffered from a negative mix impact? I heard that about something but I wasnt sure what it was referring to and it surprised me a little bit.
Was that in prepared or in Q&amp;A? Im thinking prepared.
Ill have to go back and look through.
I dont remember mix shift.
Ill follow up if I missed it but I was just surprised by that just given where were seeing some of the trends going with the business.
Just the opposite.
Yeah Im not remembering saying it but we can go back and take a look and we can follow up later.
Yeah Ill do that.
Thanks so much.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
At this time Id like to turn the call back over to Gregg Tanner for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in todays conference.
This does conclude todays program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.