Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Phil Rykhoek.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
Welcome to Denbury's first quarter conference call.
I would like to remind you that our following discussion may contain forward-looking statements and that actual results may differ materially.
If you needed other information on that please see our SEC documents.
With me today I have Tracy Evans our President and COO; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and CFO; Bob Cornelius our SVP of CO2 Operations; and the newest member of our senior team Craig McPherson SVP of Production Operations.
Tracy will introduce Craig to you in a moment.
Since he started Denbury this week we won't make him present anything but you'll see much more of Craig in the future.
Our bottom line results this quarter were strong with adjusted net income of $103.9 million as compared to only $17.4 million in the first quarter of last year and $86.9 million in last quarter Q4 of 2010.
Correspondingly adjusted cash flow was $271.2 million as compared to $66 million a year ago and $247.5 million last quarter.
Of course the reported book operating results are quite different but Mark will walk you through that reconciliation which will adjust for the non-cash and nonrecurring items.
As we suggested in our year-end conference call a couple of months ago our production was generally flat this quarter as compared to last quarter the fourth quarter of 2010.
As Mark and Bob will explain in more detail the EOR production hit a temporary plateau at 2 of our significant fields Tinsley and Heidelberg although we expect growth to resume later this year.
We have not changed our 2011 anticipated EOR production guidance of 32 500 barrels a day.
In the Bakken the production increased although at a slower rate than anticipated primarily due to the tough winter but in that case also we have not changed our 2011 production guidance.
We have some positive IP rates to give you in the Bakken and some of our most recent wells in the Cherry area but I'll let Bob tell you about that.
Although 2010 was filled with large transactions led by the Encore acquisition and subsequent sales of noncore assets we continue to pursue our transaction involving CO2 and CO2 EOR.
During the first quarter we closed on a transaction in Heidelberg and signed a joint venture covering the Tuscaloosa marine shale assets.
We signed 3 CO2 purchase contracts with industrial sources which have a very high likelihood of delivering our first man-made volumes of CO2 supplementing our natural sources.
Tracy will provide more color on these transactions.
I do want to mention one other thing.
With the stronger oil prices our stocks become a bargain relative to net asset value.
I know that sometimes investors put their capital in the stock because of the limitation on the cash flow multiple but I want to remind you that our proved net asset value is just over $20 a share at $100 oil around $24 a share at $110 oil.
Note this is a proved-only net asset value using the approximate 400 million BOEs of proved reserves that we had at year end.
We have over 1.2 billion BOEs of 3P reserves which is our proved plus probable and possible but they're all relatively low-risk potential as they're almost all EOR for Bakken.
We even have additional potential running room beyond that as the DOE has suggested that up to 10 billion barrels of oil could be recovered with EOR in the 2 core operating areas.
That potential is significantly larger than the popular Bakken play which I believe is generally regarded as around 4 billion barrels of total recoverable potential.
Bottom line with all of our potential incremental reserves we should be trading well above our proved net asset value regardless of the cash flow multiple.
But let's get back to the quarter and look at the first quarter details and we'll start with Mark's review of our numbers.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
As reported in our press release Denbury had adjusted net income for the quarter of $103.9 million or $0.26 per common share.
Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes certain items such as fair value hedging gains and losses and other unusual or nonrecurring items.
In the first quarter we had fair value hedging loss of $172 million a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $16 million and Encore merger-related costs of $2 million.
A reconciliation to get from adjusted net income to our reported net loss on a GAAP basis of $14.2 million is included in our press release.
Our adjusted net income was approximately 20% higher than our Q4 adjusted net income of $86.9 million and our cash flow from operations before working capital changes also increased nicely from Q4 up 10% to $271.2 million.
My comments will primarily focus on the sequential results of the first quarter of 2011 and fourth quarter of 2010.
Our total company production for Q1 was 63 604 barrels of oil equivalent or BOE per day versus our continuing production for Q4 of 63 712 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is our Q4 production adjusted to exclude production associated with all the asset divestitures including the sale of our Haynesville East Texas Cleveland Sand Play and Encore Energy Partners in Q4.
Our tertiary production averaged 30 825 barrels per day essentially flat with the 31 139 barrels per day in Q4 as previously indicated.
Our Bakken production averaged 5 728 BOE per day compared with the 5 193 BOE per day a 10% increase over Q4.
Bob will go into more detail on our production results in a few minutes.
Our average oil price received including derivative settlements was $92.72 per barrel in Q1 as compared to $79.18 per barrel in Q4.
Our NYMEX oil price differential was $0.59 per barrel below NYMEX in Q1 as compared to $3.90 per barrel below NYMEX in Q4.
Our tertiary production differential was a positive $4.33 for Q1 as compared to a positive $0.90 for Q4.
Differentials in our northern properties returned to more normal levels after being impacted during a portion of both the third and fourth quarters as a result of a temporary pipeline shutdown.
As I mentioned in the last quarter conference call from late January 2011 the Light Louisiana Sweet or LLS oil price has traded at a significant premium to the WTI NYMEX oil price.
Throughout most of 2010 LLS traded at slightly positive to $5 higher than WTI.
Since near the end of January 2011 LLS has traded between $10 to $20 higher than WTI.
The significance of this is that roughly 40% of our oil production is marketed on an oil price that incorporates this positive LLS differential.
In general the average of this differential goes into a pricing formula that is realized in the following month.
For example the current traded LLS differential is the June trade month and therefore the current differential will impact our June pricing i.e.
it lags one month.
Also there are other pricing components that go into the pricing formula so we may likely not always realize the full benefit of this differential.
But generally it will be within a few dollars of it.
Based on the current market we currently anticipate that our company-wide NYMEX differential should be a little better in Q2 2011.
However we are not sure how long the LLS differential will remain at these levels.
We have continued to layer in additional hedges on our oil production using cost-us callers [ph] and we are currently hedged at roughly 75% to 85% of our anticipated crude production through the end of 2012.
With our most recent hedges added for the second half of 2012 we increased our floor price from our typical $70 to $80 and our average ceiling price is around $128 for that same period.
Most of our oil hedges for 2011 have a floor price of $70 and a weighted average cap of around $100.
However it is important to note that we have contracts in 2011 with caps ranging from the low 90s to $106.
So even if prices go back to near $100 we will have some exposure to cash hedging losses.
Since our crude oil contracts are NYMEX contracts and we sell approximately 40% of our crude oil under contracts that currently receive prices significantly higher than NYMEX we will still receive most of that positive differential.
To provide a simple example if WTI is at $110 our hedged ceiling is at $100.
And LLS is selling for $125 our net price would be around $115 or the WTI ceiling price of $100 plus the LLS differential of $15.
We paid approximately $5 million for settlements on our oil hedges in Q1 but our cash settlements on our gas hedges provided us $6.6 million in Q1.
Although our lease operating expenses were down approximately 3% from Q4 to Q1 due to our property sales in Q4 our lease operating expenses on a per-BOE basis increased from $18.66 per BOE in Q4 to $22.20 per BOE in Q1.
The increase on a per BOE basis was due primarily to the impact of asset sales in Q4 approximately $1.82-per-barrel impact as these assets were weighted toward natural gas and therefore had a lower cost per BOE.
As stated in our Q4 conference call our Q4 pro forma LOE per BOE excluding these sales would have put our lease operating expense around $20.50 per BOE.
And we anticipated our Q1 cost to be around $20 to $21 per BOE.
Our cost for Q1 ended up higher than this range due primarily to incremental workover costs in our tertiary floods.
LOE for our tertiary operations averaged $25.40 per barrel in Q1 as compared to $22.26 per barrel in Q4 due primarily to higher workover cost and slightly lower production.
Bob will discuss this in more detail in a few minutes.
Going forward I would expect that our LOE per BOE would be in the $20 to $22 range per BOE most likely closer to the higher end of the range in Q2 and improving later in the year.
G&amp;A expenses increased from $38.7 million in Q4 to $43.8 million in Q1.
As I've stated in our fourth quarter conference call we did not expect to see any savings related to the sales in Q4 and Q1 expenses are typically higher.
The increases that we saw in Q1 related primarily to year-end work and incremental compensation-related items such as payroll taxes 401(k) match true-ups to divesting of long-term incentive awards compensation increases and moving costs.
Payroll taxes increased by roughly $3.8 million primarily related to bonus payments and vesting of long-term incentive awards during the first quarter as nearly all of the company's annual long-term incentives vest in the first quarter.
We expect that these costs should return to more normal levels throughout the remainder of the year.
Also our 401(k) match increased approximately $1.5 million from Q4 for the same reason.
We also incurred approximately $1 million to $1.5 million in expenses related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Q1.
For the remainder of 2011 I would expect that our G&amp;A expense would be at least $5 million lower per quarter and most likely in the range of $36 million to $38 million per quarter with approximately $8.5 million to $9 million of that expense related to stock-based compensation.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest decreased sequentially from $52.9 million to $48.8 million.
Capitalized interest was approximately $11 million in Q1 as compared to $10.7 million in Q4.
Average debt outstanding was $2.5 billion in Q1 as compared to $2.8 billion in Q4 the decrease due primarily to the bank debt of Encore Energy Partners that was transferred in the sale.
Going forward we expect to see our capitalized interest around $11 million to $13 million per quarter during 2011 increasing slightly throughout the year but depending upon certain assets replaced in the service.
During the first quarter we refinanced $525 million of our 7.5% subordinated debt with $400 million of new 6 3/8% subordinated notes due August 2021.
We also repaid $125 million of subordinated debt of which about $55 million was actually paid April 1.
As a result we recorded approximately $16 million in early debt extinguishment approximately $13 million for the call premium and approximately $3 million in deferred financing costs.
This transaction will save us around $13.9 million in annual interest.
We have no bank debt outstanding of our $1.6 billion bank credit line and we had $128 million of cash on hand as of March 31.
In light of higher oil prices and projected cash flows we recently increased our capital spending budget for 2011 from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion excluding acquisitions and excluding approximately $100 million in capitalized interest and tertiary startup cost at Hastings and Oyster Bayou Field that we anticipate will be capitalized until production commences from those fields.
Our estimate also assumes a similar level of capital cost carryovers in 2011 as we had in 2010.
For 2011 based on current prices we currently estimate that our projected capital expenditures including the capitalized interest and other items will be $100 million to $200 million greater than our estimated cash flow from operations which should be covered for the most part by our excess cash on hand at the end of 2010.
Our DD&amp;A per BOE increased slightly $16.35 in Q1 as compared to $15.87 per BOE in Q4 primarily due to capital expenditures in Q1.
Due to our book loss in Q1 resulting from noncash hedging losses we record a current- and deferred-tax benefit for the first quarter.
Going forward I would anticipate our tax rate to be around 38.5% to 39% with current taxes in the range of 4% to 7% assuming we are able to take advantage of certain deductions under the new tax law under which we believe we'll be able to deduct capital expenditures that we would normally have to recoup over time.
Now I'll turn it over to Tracy.
Thank you Mark.
First we are pleased to announce the addition of Craig McPherson who joined us this week as our Senior Vice President of Production Operations and a member of Denbury's Investment Committee.
With the growth we have experienced for the past several years and the increasing complexity of our operations we determined to divide the Senior Vice President of Operations role.
Bob has done a tremendous job of leading our operations effort over the past 5 years and should be commended for his dedication and effort.
Bob Senior Vice President of CO2 Operations with his new title will continue managing our drilling operations pipeline and CO2-supply operations Bakken operations HSE and purchasing functions.
Craig will manage our oil and gas operations and our east west and north operating regions.
Craig comes to Denbury with 30 years of experience with ConocoPhillips most recently serving as their general manager of the Gulf Coast business unit where he directed all of ConocoPhillips' technical operational and business activities in the Gulf Coast region.
The addition of Craig to our staff and the splitting of responsibilities between Bob and Craig will allow greater focus and attention to all aspects of our operations and will enhance our ability to capitalize on future growth prospects.
Welcome Craig.
As we reported in an earlier press release we have signed 2 additional anthropogenic CO2 contracts to purchase NYMEX CO2 from existing and planned industrial facilities.
Since that time we have subsequently signed one additional contract in the Gulf Coast.
So now 2 of the 3 projects that we've signed CO2 contracts with are in the Gulf Coast and the third is in the Rocky Mountain region.
The most recent contract we signed in the Gulf Coast was to purchase 100% of the CO2 captured from a post-combustion CO2-capture project.
The project is expected to capture approximately 50 million cubic feet per day of CO2 and could deliver CO2 as early as late 2012 if construction of the capture facility is completed as currently scheduled.
The other Gulf Coast project which we previously announced was we expect to purchase about 70% of the CO2 from the Mississippi Power Kemper County IGCC project.
This will allow up to about 115 million cubic feet of CO2 per day and under certain circumstances we may have to purchase 100% of the CO2 captured from the Mississippi Power project.
Mississippi Power has begun construction of the IGCC facility in late 2010 and first deliveries are expected in 2014 for Mississippi Power.
We will not incur any additional capital expenses for construction of the lateral lines on both of the Gulf Coast projects as both of them will construct the necessary lateral lines to deliver the CO2 into our existing pipeline.
Mississippi Power will deliver the CO2 at Heidelberg Field and eventually into the Free State Pipeline and the other project in the Gulf Coast will deliver the CO2 to Hastings Field via our Green Pipeline Texas.
In the Rocky Mountains we announced the signing of a contract to purchase 100% of the CO2 from DKRW's planned coal-to-fuels project in Medicine Bow Wyoming.
DKRW currently expects first deliveries of CO2 to begin in late 2014-early 2015.
We will construct the necessary pipelines to connect DKRW's facility with our planned Greencore Pipeline in Wyoming.
We have initiated a study to determine the optimum route for the pipeline from DKRW to the Greencore Pipeline but preliminary estimates indicate approximately 120 to 130 miles of pipeline will be necessary.
These volumes coupled with the expected volumes from our Riley Ridge acquisition and our contract for CO2 from Lost Cabin bring our total contracted or owned CO2 volumes in the Rocky Mountains to almost 400 million cubic feet per day which is a significant percentage of our expected requirements for the Rocky Mountain region.
We continue to work with other potential suppliers of CO2 in the Gulf Coast and in the Rocky Mountains to secure additional volumes of CO2.
We'll switch gears and talk a little bit about Denbury's position in the Tuscaloosa marine shale in Mississippi and Louisiana.
We acquired approximately 200 000 acres of leases in Mississippi and Louisiana with short lease expirations through our Encore acquisition.
Encore has spent a conservative amount of capital and time testing the Tuscaloosa marine shale which resulted and the only Tuscaloosa marine shales with continuous production to date.
Given our planned activity in our CO2 EOR operations in the Bakken and the relatively short period of time before leases were going to expire we decided to seek a joint venture partner to continue testing the Tuscaloosa marine shale.
We have entered into an agreement with a joint venture partner covering approximately 100 000 acres of the Tuscaloosa marine shale acreage that had not yet expired.
Under this agreement the joint venture partner provided immediate capital to extend expiring leases has a right to elect to complete a well that was never completed drill and complete one additional well and to carry us in additional leak -- lease acquisitions until such time as an agreed-upon amount of capital is invested.
After the joint venture partner has expended the agreed-upon capital by completing the one well drilling an additional well and/or acquiring additional leases Denbury will have the opportunity to participate for 15% working interest in all future drilling on a unit-by-unit election.
Prior to the expenditures of the agreed-upon capital Denbury will be carried for a 15% interest in all operations or lease acquisitions.
This transaction does not include Denbury's Tuscaloosa marine shale interest under any of our existing CO2 properties in Southwest Mississippi or Louisiana.
And with that I'll turn it over to Bob to talk about operations.
Thank you Tracy.
I'll give you folks a quick update on our major CO2 EOR projects our Bakken activity and then some pipeline construction progress during the first quarter.
As Mark reported tertiary production averaged 30 825 net BOE during the first quarter.
That's approximately flat with fourth quarter production rates as we suggested to you in our last conference call.
During the fourth quarter of 2010 tertiary production rates were led by positive response in both Tinsley and Heidelberg Field as both of these fields responded slightly ahead of schedule.
During the first quarter of this year production from these 2 fields temporarily leveled out for various reasons.
As you're aware production growth rate of EOR field varies from quarter-to-quarter as the EOR field production may increase rapidly when wells respond to CO2 injection plateau temporarily and then resume the growth profile as additional areas of the field respond.
Also during tertiary-flood life cycle facilities have to be increased from time to time.
Facility modifications sometime require temporary shutdowns during the final tie-ins of the equipment thereby causing brief declines or flattenings of production rates.
A planned shutdown occurred at Tinsley in the first quarter.
We also find it difficult to precisely predict when any given well will respond to CO2 injection as the CO2 seldom travels through the reservoir rock consistently due to the heterogeneity of the oil-bearing formations.
All of these fluctuations are normal and we generally expect oil production in a tertiary field to increase over time until the entire field is developed albeit sometimes inconsistently.
These types of fluctuations are most -- were most noticeable at Tinsley and Heidelberg Fields during the first quarter of 2011.
These 2 fields had exhibited strong production growth in recent periods and we expect our tertiary production to resume its growth later this year as additional wells are placed on production and CO2-recycling facilities are expanded.
Our most mature area Phase 1 production decreased approximately 5% quarter-to-quarter with an average daily rate of 12 040 net BOEs during that first quarter.
Lockhart Crossing continues to perform well with the first quarter production slightly ahead of the fourth quarter production rate.
Brookhaven Field was flat quarter-to-quarter but they're slightly negative 35 net BOEs per day average.
The reduction driven by well work during -- conforming of 2 injection wells that were converted to WAG.
WAG is water alternating gas injection in our 4-pattern program.
CO2 injection rate into these existing wells was curtailed into the area while we did the workovers.
All these wells have now returned to injection during April and oil rates [ph] are expected to increase in the coming months.
Our most mature floods Bell Creek McComb Smithdale and Mallalieu all declined slightly quarter-to-quarter.
In Southeast Mississippi Phase 2 experienced a 420 net BOE a 4% decrease in production rate in the first quarter when compared to the fourth quarter.
As previously reported Heidelberg experienced a significant production increase during the fourth quarter.
Production flattened during the first quarter as we begin to work on wells and we saw additional recycle compression.
As these wells respond we should see an increase in production rate during the third and fourth quarters.
Soso Field decreased 247 BOEs per day primarily due to normal decline in that EOR field.
Also Soso is a mature field and we continue to well work during the quarter to expand 2 new patterns in the Bailey formation.
We've got a field with -- essentially flat quarter-to-quarter producing 3 247 net BOEs during the first quarter.
CO2 injection conformance work was performed on several injection wells during the late part of 2010 to improve CO2 distribution throughout the various intervals helping us minimize any further decline.
Martinville declined 86 BOEs and producing average of 500 net BOEs during the quarter.
Tinsley Phase 3 average daily production during the first quarter was flat when compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
It has averaged 6 567 net BOEs per day.
During the first quarter the team conducted a planned shutdown to install increased water-handling equipment and installed additional recycling compression equipment that will be operational during May.
These activities were planned and are necessary to prepare the CO2 recyclability for the increased volume of oil water and CO2 through the end of the year as we add additional wells and infrastructure to the East Fault Block.
Tinsley continued to be aggressively developed with capital investment in excess of $50 million as we continue to expand the well work and infrastructure.
This East Fault Block is the largest fault block in the field.
Currently there are 16 wells that should be responding during the next 6 months in Tinsley.
Cranfield Phase 4 produced --  production decreased 51 net BOEs quarter-to-quarter.
We expect second quarter production to increase as we made repairs to one of our better wells that was down for several weeks during the first quarter.
It is 100-plus barrels per day well and it was successfully repaired and returned to operation during April and the unit production now has returned to its prior production before that well went down.
Delhi's production averaged 1 524 BOEs per day during the first quarter which was an increase of 821 BOEs per day or almost a 117% increase quarter-to-quarter.
Test Sites 1 and 2 were placed in service during the quarter.
At the same time injection volumes and well count also increased.
Delhi team expect an increased production for the remainder of the year.
Hastings Field is now the largest field under CO2 injection.
We started CO2 injection during December 2010.
The goal is to build reservoir pressure up to a target operating pressure of about 3 000 psi during December.
Expansion of fault block A is the focus of our 2011 capital although regulatory permitting is approved.
The CO2 recycle facility is now under construction.
We expect the facility to be operational late this year with initial tertiary production either late this year early next.
Dimensional production averaged 1 160 net BOEs per day which was a decrease of 314 for the quarter.
And some wells were taken off production in preparation for CO2 injection.
Primary production expected to continue its normal decline since fault block A wells were taken off-line in late 2010 to prepare for this flood.
At Oyster Bayou we began injection during June of 2010.
We received our core of engineering's [ph] permit to start the CO2 recycle facility at the Oyster Bayou during January and construction is now underway.
First year oil production from the Oyster Bayou Field is expected to occur in about a year from now and will be dependent on the date of the completion of that recycle field.
Conroe Field which is still conventional production was 2 978 net BOEs during the first quarter which was an increase of 213 above the fourth quarter volume.
Increase was a result of successful workovers and equipment upgrades taking place during the quarter.
At Jackson Dome we complete the drilling of the development well and DRI Dock field.
The top of the Northlick [ph] pay zone or CO2-bearing sand came in structurally lower than expected.
At this time the results of the various well tests are inconclusive.
So as we process that data and review the results we're going to move our drilling rig to the Gluckstadt Field where we have an opportunity to drill both a rate well and a well that could add significant proved reserves.
There's also plans to bring a second drilling rig into the area in the latter part of June or early July to test another geological structure that could help test a portion of our 5.6 Tcf probable and possible CO2 reserves in the area.
Moving to the Rocky Mountain.
The team is preparing the Bell Creek Field located at the Southeast Montana for CO2 injection.
Idle wells are being worked over and completed for CO2 service.
The well work is being completed before the CO2 pipeline is commissioned during the fourth quarter of 2012.
The 232 mile 20-inch Greencore Pipeline that will connect the Lost Cabin gas processing facility with Bell Creek Field in Montana is on schedule.
The pipeline is being constructed in 2 segments.
The first is 115 miles of pipeline with target construction to begin in August of 2011.
The construction will wind down some time during the winter of 2011 and then the final segment is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Let me switch to the Bakken now.
Denbury now operates 5 drilling rigs in the play.
We initially expected to complete and bring on 8 wells during the first quarter.
Weather and fracturing services slowed down all activities between June and mid-March.
We were only able to complete and place 5 wells online during the period and 3 of the 5 wells were not completed until March.
We frac-ed 5 wells in April and 5 additional wells are planned to fracture-treated during May.
We now have long-term agreements with 2 service companies for a total of 5 frac days per month to cover off all of our 2011 drilling program.
Now while first quarter Bakken production rates are less than expected we are leaving our original production forecast unchanged at an average production rate of 8 700 net BOEs per day during 2011.
Now to meet that average production rate for the year we must continue to have completion success and improvement in the weather.
But the Bakken team is building on some recent successes.
Several completions since last analyst call are the Thompson 31-11 northwest horizontal and the Thompson 31-11 southwest horizontal.
Both of these Bakken wells are in the Charlson area.
These wells had IPs of 1 605 and 1 501 gross BOEs per day respectively.
In the Cherry area we completed a Satler [ph] 44 southwest horizontal in the Hoffman 149-98.
These 2 wells IP-ed for 2 258 and 1 894 gross BOEs respectively.
The Christianson 24-9 northeast horizontal was completed in the Camp/Indian Hill area is still under flowback at a rate in excess of 1 017 gross BOEs per day on a 20 64 choke.
The Christianson 24-9 rig is restricted due to oil and water takeaway capacity so we're still working on those.
Today we had a cleanout of the Satler [ph] 44-34 northwest horizontal.
It's in the Cherry area.
It's a very strong well but if we were able to IP it today it would be also above 2 000 BOEs per day.
We have executed 3 drilling contracts for additional rigs that are expected to start drilling in September October and December of this year so we plan to exit the year with about 7 operating rigs in the Bakken.
Lease operating expenses during the first quarter of 2011.
Operating cost for tertiary properties averaged $25.40 per BOE and that's compared to the fourth quarter operating cost of $22.26 barrels -- dollars per BOE.
The per barrel increase quarter-to-quarter was primarily due to increases in workover expenses with more minor increases in power and fuel and some new leased equip -- new equipment leases.
First quarter of 2011 operating expenses -- workover expenses increased $1.38 per barrel over the fourth quarter of 2011 as we -- what we did is we accelerated some planned wellbore reworks and repairs in the Brookhaven Field.
Rather than perform that work over the entire period we accelerated into the first quarter.
So with that I'll turn it over to Phil.
Thanks guys.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So with that I'll turn it back to Elizabeth for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> On your budget increase can you give a little bit of color? Is that all just sort of rig drilling? Or is there any cost inflation included in that as well? I think there's a little bit of cost inflation in there.
We did move from $1 billion to $1.3 billion.
We added some projects at Jackson Dome.
We added projects in the Bakken.
We made some other changes but yes we are seeing some slight increases in our capital equipment.
There were increases kind of everywhere.
I mean I think we accelerated the well at Jackson Dome.
We added new rigs adds a little bit of cost in the Bakken.
We are already bumping our cost estimates a little bit there.
But it's kind of spread out trying to also I think accelerate even a little bit of the pipeline stuff.
I think we put a little bit of money in for Conroe pipeline.
So it's just a little bit kind of all across the whole spectrum.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I think you guys had been sort of kind of in front of potentially seeing higher cost in the Bakken and it's kind of playing also.
But you just mentioned you saw these ER cost the smelter [ph] maybe bumped a little bit more.
Where you're looking at for a -- see out there right now? Right now our EOP [ph] is running at $7.8 million but we're -- I looked today at some of the wells we've just discussed.
And they're probably going to come in around $8.5 million.
So we're hoping we've seen some efficiencies with the weather.
We've seen some efficiency with our Bakken team and we hope to hold the $7.8 million to $8.5 million range.
LLC</strong> Remind me how many fracs does that play.
I'll give you [ph] 24.
Oh yes stages yes 23 to 24 stages.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And you do them planning [ph] first 3 months? No.
[indiscernible] sliding sleeves.
Yes we use mostly sliding sleeve.
LLC</strong> Got you.
All right.
And on tertiary production is production being relatively flat for tertiary in 2Q? Am I reading into that right? Or could it be slightly down and then it sounds like it will start accelerating in the back half of the year.
Is that a fair statement? Q2 should be up slightly.
It just won't be a big increase and most of the growth is in the latter part of the year.
I think we'll have a slight bump in Q2.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And when you look at 3Q and 4Q what really are the big factors to really get that moving upwards? I mean is there a couple projects that are really critical? Yes I mean most of the growth was Heidelberg Tinsley and Delhi.
Yes I mean Bob mentioned we have a lot of wells that we think are going to respond in Tinsley.
They're producing water.
We think it's going to turn to oil here shortly so we expect -- basically Heidelberg and Tinsley are the 2 that kind of plateau-ed and we expect that growth to resume because we're continuing to expand those floods.
Delhi is already doing well and we expect it to continue to grow but it's been on a pretty good growth path the last several quarters.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one last thing on the tertiary at Hastings Field.
Is there anything you all can see as you're injecting CO2 that leads you to believe that this may be on time or not? Or is it one of those things where it's just literally wait and see? No we can monitor the pressure increase obviously as we try to raise the pressure towards the miscibility pressures or at least get it close as we can to miscibility pressure.
We can monitor that and we're seeing the pressure rise about as expected as we have with the injection.
So we feel very good about it.
I really think the issue with Hastings will be facility timing.
We hope to get that done very late this year and the other thing is we did shut in production at Hastings.
So we expect as soon as we get the facility completed to have production.
LLC</strong> And lastly on the Tuscaloosa shale Tracy you gave a lot of detail on the JV and maybe for -- can you give a survey just a higher level view? But it sounds like of the 200 000 acres you have 100 000 of that is going to be under the JV and what are going to be your sort of general working interest in that? Because you're going to be a non-operator on there.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Now the 200 000 is what we had when we acquired it last March.
And over the past year about half of it had gone away.
So when we signed the joint venture it was plus or minus 100 000 acres.
So we will have -- at the time of the JV signing we had 100 000 now.
The operator of the JV is leasing up.
We know their leasing agent so we don't know the speed at which they're leasing but they're leasing acreage.
So we'll have more a bit later what our eventual position will be.
But we're going to have roughly a 15% interest in the play as it develops.
Now that excludes the 45 000 or 50 000 acres that we have under our CO2 EOR projects.
So I guess technically today you could say we have 150 000 acres 50 000 of which we have virtually 100% in; and 100 000 we would have 15% in.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And is there any reason why the tertiary phase is -- with the tertiary phases over the 50 000.
You wouldn't want to be poking holes through that.
Or is it just -- you just got to be careful logistically that you don't get in the way of the CO2 stuff? No I mean we could.
It's just that the results are very very early in this play.
I mean even some of the comments yesterday -- I've heard several people mentioned it is frontier.
So we've got a lot of opportunities to continue our EOR development and we're just going to watch our JV partner and see if we can -- if they can unlock secrets to the Tuscaloosa marine shale and then when we feel like it's de-risked further that we can look at developing the TMS under our existing CO2 floods.
Line of Dave Kistler with Simmons Company (sic) [Simmons &amp; Company].
Real quickly with the sixth and seventh rigs coming in to the Bakken -- and you mentioned a little bit previously about trucking takeaway capacity completion services.
When you set up your 5 completions per month does that incorporate ramping up the rig count? We are looking at getting the sixth by the time we ramp up.
Remember towards the end of the year in the fourth quarter that we were trying to hopefully get a sixth.
We're working on that right now.
As far as the trucking we're working on some trucking companies to help us.
Rig move as you know very critical out there.
We're working on that.
Also to help us enhance our ability to have 0 flat time or less flat time between completion of the well and spud of the next well.
So we're working on that also.
And any chance we can get kind of an update on where current production levels are just so we have a sense to how this is trending? We would rather not give monthlies or current but it's trending up.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then switching over to the CO2 injection.
In the past you guys have had success implementing WAGs.
Obviously it's been special situations where you've done that.
But is there any consideration to doing that at the beginning? And is the reason for not doing it a cost-based decision? I guess one other question on it would be "If you did a WAG would it actually reduce your total demand for CO2 in some of these plays?" Yes if we did WAG it would reduce the CO2 demand per barrel if you want to call it that.
So that's a factual statement.
The modeling we've done on the Gulf Coast fields has indicated that basically by going to continuous or staying with continuous injection you recover the same amount of oil and at faster period of time and therefore you have a higher net present value.
The WAGs that we're using -- I mean they are successful.
WAGs have been successful in West Texas for years.
But in the Gulf Coast sands I mean we are more homogeneous typically and therefore our sweep efficiencies are pretty high using just CO2.
But we continue to look at that and we'll monitor it.
But right now we're starting everything with continuous injection.
And one thing we have done -- it's not technically a WAG Dave but one thing we have done is started doing some down dip injection beneath the oil-water contact for 2 reasons: one that helps raise pressure too; and then secondly it does contain the CO2 into the -- above the oil-water contact.
So we are looking at using water kind of in a little different method than the traditional WAG.
But we continue to look at that and if we see instances where a WAG would make more sense then we might try it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
One last thing just so I understand a little bit better.
Is there a big cost differential for implementing a WAG versus what you're doing on the CO2 side? There might be a little bit.
I mean obviously you're moving CO2 to an injection line.
Either you'd have to have a second injection line or you probably have to modify the existing injection line to handle both water and CO2 in alternating phases.
But I don't think that would be significant.
I mean we haven't not done a WAG because of the cost if that's the question.
But right now with our cost of CO2 it's probably cheaper than water.
That's more of what I was getting at.
"Is it cheaper on the other side?" not the inverse.
Anyway I appreciate the color.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll go to the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Just a couple things.
Looking at what we've seen commodity prices do over the last few months I just wonder if you have any general thoughts about how you might change your hedging philosophy going forward.
We seem to be in an era where downside protection isn't quite so much the worry it was 18 months ago say.
I mean we've kind of followed our policy and we've been doing this I guess almost 2 years where we've been going kind of 12 to 15 months out.
And I think we'll probably stick with that.
We did go just a little bit further probably about 18 to 21.
We went through the end of 2012 but that was -- we kind of just took advantage of an uptick in oil price.
And as Mark pointed out we upped the floors to $80 and got ceilings in the upper $120s.
But I think on a general basis we'll try to do this 12- to 15- 12- to 18-month-type program.
It works very well for us because it gives us time to adjust if prices do dip and a lot of our equipment still has a pretty long lead time and so forth.
So it gives us time to adjust.
Okay great.
And actually speaking of equipment lead times as far as just the basic facility upgrades you have to make as you build tertiary production at the various fields what sort of lead time -- or what sort of planning do you have to have for compressors and so forth at this point? I mean Noel we're pretty fortunate because as we build these things out we have everything on a schedule.
So the compression is probably the longest item so we already have compression out a year in advance.
And we have alliance with our provider.
So really on the EOR side we've not seen any type of tightening of what we need because of the way we order it and because we know our schedules.
The compression still take about a year.
About a year yes.
Okay great.
And Bob one thing I just wanted to get from you again.
Could you just repeat the Delhi production rate number for the quarter again? I just didn't quite get that.
It made 1 520 -- averaged 1 524 barrels oil per day for the first quarter which was about a 821 BOE increase.
Okay.
And I think -- pretty much the last one I had you mentioned the development well at DRI Dock.
I believe you just said that the structure I think was up shift from where you expected.
Can you just talk a little bit more about that? Because I don't remember you guys generally haven't too much trouble with the development wells out there usually.
We haven't had trouble.
It was fairly surprising we're trying to figure it out with all our diagnostics and reprocessing.
But the well came in low.
It came in 150 feet lower than we expected.
So we're trying to figure out exactly did the structure -- well the structure didn't technically shift but was our seismic shifted or something like that that led to us -- ended up being low.
So we're going through all that process now and we should have more information later on.
Is it too soon to have a sense as to whether or not the CO2 to resource there is essentially unchanged? Or do you really need to work some more on it first? It's too early at this point to determine that.
And next we'll go to the line of Jason Wangler with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Just had one quick one for the sixth and seventh rigs up in the Bakken here in the next couple of months.
Have you contracted those yet? Or you're just starting to get those kind of felt out? No we've got them under contract.
We executed contracts about a month ago...
Almost a month ago.
3 weeks ago.
So yes they're on -- we have 3 rigs now under contract.
[indiscernible] seven we're going to pop one [ph].
That gets you your seventh.
Inc.</strong> Perfect.
And then for the sixth one going up to Almond.
Is the goal there to drill a few wells there and kind of maybe pull that back and get an understanding what you have there and then decide the development plan depending on the results? Yes that's right.
We'll go drill one in Almond and then in northeast Foothills also.
We have about 65 000 acres in Almond so we kind of need to test it and see what we want to do there because there's definitely a third time [ph].
And next we'll go to the line of Cory Garcia with Raymond James.
Quick question.
I apologize if I missed this but any updates with regard to potentially barging some of that crude from Tinsley down to get some of the higher-value seaborne crudes? Yes it's still in progress.
I think the weather or something I forget has -- the high water on the Mississippi I believe has actually slowed it down just a little bit.
But I think that's still anticipated in a couple months 3 months maybe.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no more questions in queue.
Please continue.
Thanks everybody.
I want to remind you to mark your calendars for our upcoming Spring Analyst Meeting.
We're going to start with a breakfast meeting in New York on Monday May 23 and then we'll have a repeat presentation at Boston the next morning on May 24.
That Wednesday and Thursday Tracy and I plan to be on the West Coast San Francisco and Los Angeles.
And I know some in the Midwest have asked that we come up there but we'll have to do that on a separate trip probably later this year.
We'll try to make a trip to the Midwest.
So mark your calendars.
We hope to see you soon.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 12:30 p.m.
today through June 5.
You may access the executive replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 189714.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844 with the access code of 189714.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Denbury Resources Inc.
Second Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Joining us today will be Phil Rykhoek Chief Executive Officer; Tracy Evans President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Allen Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Robert Cornelius Senior Vice President of CO2 Operations; and Craig McPherson Senior Vice President of Production Operations.
The company's comments today will include forward-looking statements consisting of opinions forecasts projections or other statements other than statements of historical facts which are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are based upon our current assumptions estimates and projections regarding Denbury and the external markets and economic conditions.
These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are detailed in our SEC reports which may cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from our forward-looking statements.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I will turn the call over to Denbury's Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Phil Rykhoek.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Welcome to Denbury's First Quarter Conference Call.
I think our moderator has already introduced everybody who is here it's our senior team and what we call internally our investment committee.
Our bottom line results this quarter were at record levels.
Adjusted net income roughly $147 million 41% increase sequentially over the last quarter and invested cash flow was just over $344 million which was a 27% sequential increase.
Of course the reported book operating income results were quite good with reconciled items being noncash nonrecurring items and Mark may touch on that a little bit.
For those of you that focus on cash flow multiples you might want to take a look and notice that the cash flow we generated this quarter was our best quarter ever.
Personally I encourage you to also look at our net asset value.
And I think that may be a better stock valuation measure and I think you'll find we're significantly undervalued based on that metric.
As I mentioned in the press release there are many positive aspects to this quarter.
We had record quarterly cash flow.
We reduced our operating administrative expenses per BOE on a sequential quarter basis.
We recorded the best-ever NYMEX oil price differentials thanks to the positive LSS oil markets.
And actually those items were -- the directed cash flow and the positive NYMEX differentials were achievable since we have over 90% of our production in crude oil.
We expect production growth to accelerate next year as construction of our new facilities on schedule at Hastings and Oyster Bayou fields with initial oil production expected there soon and our Bakken oil production results continue to be strong.
We are gradually accelerating in our activity in that areas.
We plan to add 2 additional operating rigs before year end.
All these things are positive but to me one of the more important things that happened this quarter was the acquisition of the remaining interest at Riley Ridge.
If you missed the significance of this deal this acquisition gives us control of the vast natural resources of Riley Ridge and a source of CO2 that we anticipate will be less expensive than Jackson Domes's CO2 which was already one of the least expensive in the industry.
Although we have just begun our engineering and therefore we don't have precise numbers we expect the revenue from the natural gas and helium to cover the projected development costs and most if not all of the incremental costs of extracting the CO2 resulting in a very inexpensive source of CO2 if you look at this project as one combined CO2 operation.
We do expect to spend more capital at Riley Ridge over time than we have today at Jackson Dome but the big difference is we have a revenue stream from the natural gas and helium to pay for that investment.
Jackson Dome simply doesn't have that.
We also believe that this source will ultimately provide more CO2 than we need for existing properties allowing us to pursue other oil properties that are EOR candidates in the Rocky Mountain region.
This acquisition is a big step for Denbury as we strive to replicate our Gulf Coast EOR strategy in the Rockies.
Bob will give you a few more details on the acquisition in a minute.
Before I turn it over to the other guys I also want to briefly discuss production.
As I have often stated predicting the timing of the EOR production is one of our more difficult tasks.
We realized how important it is and we are always striving to improve our accuracy but due to the nature of this business this will always be difficult and always have margin innovator.
In fact we find it somewhat easier to forecast the Bakken production as evidenced by our relative better accuracy in spite of a tough weather this spring and significant competition.
Craig will give you more details/updates and provide additional color regarding our EOR activities.
But to keep things in perspective I wanted to quickly review with you our recent forecasting results.
If you look at our last 3 years in 2009 we nailed the forecast almost exactly.
In 2010 we beat the EOR forecast by almost 8%.
And it looks like for this year we're going to be about 5% short.
So perhaps on average you could say we're slightly ahead.
But I think the most important thing to remember is the short-term production variances have not reduced our expectations of oil that could be recovered from these floods just the timing.
The process works and works well and I'm proud to be associated with the company that -- with such unique profitable and repeatable strategy.
We have an extensive inventory of tertiary projects as was previously mentioned.
We expect to see initial productions soon from 2 new floods: Hastings and Oyster Bayou.
These new floods should draw our production growth in 2012 which we expect to be significantly higher growth rates in 2011.
We are building the foundation for 2012 which should be a great year.
With that as an introduction let's look at more details for the quarter and we'll start with Mark's review of the numbers.
Thank you Phil.
I'm pleased to report that Denbury achieved record profitability levels in the second quarter in both income and cash flows coming in ahead of consensus on both adjusted EPS and cash flows.
I will spend the next few minutes providing more announcements on the numbers and provide some forward-looking projections.
Our comparative analysis were primarily focused on the sequential results of the first and second quarters of 2011.
As reported in our press release Denbury had adjusted net income for the second quarter of $146.7 million or $0.37 per basic common share as compared to adjusted net income of $103.9 million or $0.26 per share in Q1.
Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes certain items such as fair value hedging gains and losses and another unusual and non-recurring items which we believe is a better reflection of our ongoing period-to-period results.
A reconciliation to get from adjusted net income to our reported net income on a GAAP basis of $259.2 million or $0.65 per basic common share is included in our press release.
In the second quarter we had fair value hedging gain of $183.8 million due to the decrease in NYMEX oil future prices at the end of June as compared to the end of March which essentially reverse the $172 million fair value hedging loss we had reported in the first quarter of 2011.
Our cash flow from operations before working capital changes increased from Q1 from $271.2 million to $344.1 million in Q2 a company record.
Our total company production for Q2 was 64 919 barrels of oil equivalent or BOE per day versus our production for Q1 of 63 604 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our tertiary production averaged 30 771 barrels per day essentially flat with the 30 825 barrels per day in Q1.
Our Bakken production averaged 7 626 BOEs per day compared to 5 728 BOEs per day a 33% increase over Q1.
We'll go into more detail on our production results in a few minutes.
Our average oil price received excluding derivative settlements was $106.30 per barrel in Q2 as compared to $93.67 per barrel in Q1.
Our crude oil derivative contracts reduced our net oil price by $3.13 per barrel in Q2 as compared to $0.95 per barrel in Q1.
On a total company basis our NYMEX WTI oil price differential was a positive $3.72 per barrel in Q2 as compared to $0.59 per barrel below NYMEX in Q1.
For our tertiary production the average NYMEX price differential was a positive $9.69 per barrel in Q2 as compared to a positive $4.33 per barrel in Q1 with some of our tertiary production receiving average positive differentials in excess of $15 per barrel during the second quarter.
Differentials in our northern properties also improved with our Bakken production averaging $9.62 per barrel below NYMEX in Q2 as compared to $11.55 per barrel below NYMEX in Q1.
As I mentioned in the last quarter conference call beginning in late January 2011 the LLS oil price begin trading at a significant premium to the WTI NYMEX oil price since then ranging from approximately $10 to $24 higher than WTI.
Since roughly 40% of our oil production is marketed on an oil price that incorporates this positive LLS differential this has provided a nice benefit to Denbury.
In general the average of this differential goes into our pricing formula that is realized in the following month.
Also there are other pricing competitiveness that go into the pricing formula so we likely will not always realize the full benefit of this differential but it will generally be within a few dollars.
We currently anticipate that our company-wide NYMEX differential should remain strong in Q3 however we are not sure of how long the LLS differential will remain at these levels.
Our hedging positions have remained relatively unchanged since Q1 and we are hedged at roughly 75% to 85% of our anticipated crude oil production to the end of 2012.
For the second half of 2012 we increased our full price from our typical $70 to $80 per barrel and our average ceiling price is around $128 per barrel for the same period.
Most of our oil hedges for 2011 have a core price of $70 and a weighted average capital of around $100.
However it is important to note that we have contracts in 2011  with caps ranging from the low 90s to $106 per barrel.
So we do have some exposure to cash hedging losses with oil prices even in the low 90s.
We paid approximately $17 million for settlements on our oil hedges in Q2 while cash settlements on our gas hedges provided us $6 million of cash in the second quarter.
Although our lease operating expenses were up approximately 2% from Q1 to Q2 our lease operating expenses on a per-BOE basis decreased from $22.20 per BOE in Q1 to $21.99 per BOE in Q2.
The decrease on a per-BOE basis was due primarily to increased Bakken production which has a lower production costs in our tertiary operation and lower per BOE expense for our tertiary production.
LOE for our tertiary operations averaged $23.35 per barrel in Q2 as compared to $25.40 per barrel in Q1 due primarily to lower workover costs.
Going forward I would expect that our total company LOE per BOE will remain in the $21 and $22 range.
G&amp;A expenses decreased from $43.8 million in Q1 to $30.9 million in Q2.
As I stated in our first quarter conference call our first quarter G&amp;A expenses is higher than normal due to incremental compensation related to items such as payroll taxes and 401(k) match to year-end bonus payments and vesting of long-term incentive awards which primarily vests in the first quarter.
In addition the true-up of compensation associated with long-term incentive awards and performance awards moving costs associated with our relocation to a new corporate headquarter and higher professional fees associated with year-end work all contributed to the higher Q1 costs.
During the second quarter our incentive compensation expense returned to more normal levels and in some cases decreased due to updated performance estimates for 2011.
Also professional fees decreased by approximately $1.9 million.
Another compensation expense such as payroll taxes and 401(k) decreased by almost $5 million.
For the remainder of 2011 I would expect our that G&amp;A expenses would be in the range of $35 million to $38 million per quarter with approximately $8.5 million to $9 million of that expense related to stock-based compensation.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest decreased sequentially from $48.8 million in Q1 to $42.2 million in Q2.
Capitalized interests was $13.2 million in Q2 as compared to $11 million in Q1.
Average debt outstanding was $2.3 billion in Q2 as compared to $2.5 billion in Q1.
The decrease due primarily to the lower bank debt and repayment of $125 million of subdebt associated with our hedging financing in Q1.
Going forward we currently expect that our capitalized interest will be around $13 million to $15 million for quarter during the remainder of 2011 depending upon the certain assets going to service.
We had no bank debt outstanding on our $1.6 billion credit line at the end of the second quarter and we had $122 million of cash.
We recently borrowed $125 million on our bank line to close the Riley Ridge acquisition and we estimate that we may at the end of the year with somewhere around $200 million to $225 million drawn on our bank line depending on many things including the timing of capital expenditures cash flows and working capital requirements.
Our capital spending budget increased $1.3 billion to $1.35 billion related to incremental capital expenditures as a result of the Riley Ridge acquisition.
Our capital budget amount assumes that we are able to enter into equipment leases for approximately $60 million excludes acquisition and excludes the approximately $100 million in capitalized interest in the tertiary startup costs across at Hastings and Oyster Bayou Field.
Our estimates also assumes that a similar level of capital caused the carryover in 2011 as we had in 2010.
For 2011 we currently estimate that our projected capital expenditures including capitalized interest and tertiary startup costs will be $150 million to $250 million greater than our estimated cash flow from operations which should be covered for the most part by our excess cash on hand at the end of 2010.
Therefore estimated borrowings on our bank line will essentially be related to our acquisition-related activities during 2011.
Our metrics continue to improve with our debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 33% and our debt-to-Q2 annualized adjusted cash flow at approximately 1.7x.
Our DD&amp;A per BOE increase to $17.52 per BOE in Q2 as compared to $16.35 per BOE in Q1.
This increase is primarily due to increases in future development costs associated with reserve additions and cost increases and capital expenditures in Q2.
We added approximately $30.9 million BOEs from the Bakken during the first 6 months of 2011 and since funding of development costs associated with our Bakken reverse is generally higher than our historical DD&amp;A rate it tends to drive up our DD&amp;A expense on a per-BOE basis.
We currently estimate that the Riley Ridge acquisition will potentially lower our DD&amp;A per BOE slightly but future reserve additions in the Bakken may offset some of this benefit.
Our statutory income tax rate is estimated at 38% with our effective rate just under 39% due primarily to nondeductible expenses that drives up our rates.
Going forward I anticipate that our tax rate would be around the same rate as our current tax rate with current taxes ranging from 6% to 10% of that amount assuming we are able to take advantage of certain deductions under the new Tax Law.
Most of our current taxes are associated with state tax liability.
And with that I'll turn it over to Tracy.
Thank you Mark.
I'll give a little more color on the reserves as of midyear.
Primarily as a result of our activities in the Bakken during the first 6 months of 2011 we have added an additional $29 million BOEs of reserves to our proved reserves.
Our total proved reserves as of June 30 are estimated to be $417 million BOEs that consist of 353 million barrels of oil condensates and natural gas liquids and 385 Bcf of natural gas.
The net present value of the reserves based on the midyear product prices is approximately $9.3 billion compared to a year-end value of $7.3 billion.
Incidentally the $9.3 billion would infer a trued net asset value of approximately $17.50 per share at $91 oil.
Total reserve adds during the first 6 months were 30.9 million BOEs.
the 30.9 million BOEs of additional reserves do not include the estimated 250 Bcf of natural gas or 41.7 million BOEs of reserves associated with our recent acquisition of the additional interest at Riley Ridge.
The remaining reserve adds between the Bakken and the total number were primarily associated with performance revisions or due to the higher oil price that existed at June 30 versus year-end.
Product prices used in the midyear estimates were $90.90 per barrel and $4.31 per million Btu compared to $79.43 per barrel and $4.45 per million Btu at year end.
Drilling activity in the Bakken continues with 5 rigs as mentioned ramping up to 7 rigs later this year.
This activity is expected to result in additional proved reserves during the second half of the year from the Bakken.
We continue to evaluate our well results nonoperating well results and offset wells in which we have no interest in order to better refine our reserve estimates.
The Cherry area continues to show better-than-forecasted production rate and is an area that estimated individual well reserves for the middle Bakken approximately 50 000 100 000 BOEs per well were increased based on the performance to date.
Tertiary reserves remain relatively unchanged at 159 million barrels after adjusting for 2011 production.
With the status of our CO2 injections raising the reservoir pressures at Hastings and Oyster Bayou we are forecasting first response for this deals in late 2011 and early 2012 respectively.
And as such expects significant additional proved reserves in 2012 from these 2 fields.
As we've stated before reserve additions in the CO2 are somewhat lumpy when compared to reserve additions in a drilling play like the Bakken.
We have completed our review of the well data and seismic data at our DRI Dock Field and as a result we have reduced our reserve estimates at DRI Dock by approximately 238 billion cubic feet of CO2.
Our drilling program at Jackson Dome continues with expected reserve additions from 2 wells later this year.
A third well remaining for this year is expected to provide additional deliverability of CO2 later this year from the Gluckstadt Field.
On the anthropogenic side we continue to monitor the status of CO2 capture projects in which we have purchase contracts.
Mississippi Power continues to make progress in the construction of their Kemper County IGCC plant with expected first deliveries in 2014 of approximately 115 million cubic feet per day and their products is making progress in advancing their capture project as well down in Port Arthur with first delivery is expected in late 2012 or early 2013 of approximately 50 million cubic feet per day.
The majority of our other projects continue to make progress.
But at this time the expected date of first deliveries from these other projects is very difficult to estimate.
With the acquisition of Riley Ridge and the signing of our CO2 contract in the first quarter we believe we now have secured sufficient CO2 and in fact more CO2 than we need for our existing operations in the Rocky Mountain region assuming we further develop and continue the development of the Riley Ridge area and our projects -- anthropogenic projects continue to proceed as we have in the forecast.
And with that I'll turn it over to Bob.
Thank you Tracy.
I'll quickly discuss our second quarter Bakken activity the Riley Ridge acquisition in more depth and then report on the major pipeline of CO2 projects.
The Bakken team continues to see these improvements into the drilling completion processes as well as in the overall the operation.
Operation improvements are evidenced in several areas including our production rates drilling time and a number of completions during this period.
Bakken production rates improved during the second quarter with production averaging 7 626 net BOEs.
That's a 33% increase over the first quarter Bakken production rate.
Although North Dakota experienced a colder than normal spring along with a record rainfall and road lane limitations.
The team was able to fracture and complete 11 wells during the second quarter.
That's compared to 5 fracs during the first quarter.
Drilling time measured from spuds to rig released inquiries improved.
And we have seen a decrease in the number of days required to move some of our rigs.
Comparing drilling time now to the first quarter we saw an average of 59 days or some along laterals during the winter months during the first quarter.
That's been reduced to 40 days average.
We're drilling the same type of long laterals during the second quarter and recently a drilling time of 34 days is accomplished for a long lateral and 29 for 640-acre location.
The drilling team also went into a fixed frac-ing agreement that should improve or shorten the number of days required to move our drilling rig.
As reported Denbury's drilling at 5 wells operating in the Bakken.
We contracted to add 3 new efficient [indiscernible] in the basin.
The first rig will arrive late in the third quarter and the next 2 rigs will be placed in our operations during the fourth quarter of this year.
Ultimately we will finish the year with 7 operated Bakken drilling rigs.
An agreement was also completed with Halliburton to assist in project management.
All of these services the project management the new drilling rig trucking agreements are designed to further improve drilling efficiencies improve completion performance and reduce overall downtime.
Completion process also improved during the second quarter as we frac-ed 11 wells during the period.
7 of those 11 wells were completed in the Cherry area and McKenzie County.
The average initial potential for our Cherry completions was just over 1 800 BOE per day.
Several recent IPs in the areas where the Loomer 34-4 which IP-ed at 2 574 net BOEs per day and the Lundin 11-15 southeast horizontal that had initial potential of 2 135 net BOEs per day.
For the complete list of all of our Bakken completion you can see our web page.
So with improved weather conditions and continued well results we are forecasting that we will be able to close much of the production gap that we lost in the first [indiscernible].
However I think it's going to be unlikely that we're going to offset the weather-related operational impacts that occurred earlier in the year.
So our forecast now shows we exit the year with the Bakken production rates of somewhere between 11 000 and 12 000 net BOEs per day and average annual rate which will approximately be 8 400 net BOEs per day.
As Tracy discussed earlier our latest acquisition we closed on Monday August 1 and we completed that acquisition that acquired the remaining 57.5% working interest in the 9 700 acres of Riley Ridge Federal unit and the adjoining acreage of 28 000 acres we have a 33% working interest.
Denbury is the operator of both of these units.
Strategically the Riley Ridge Federal Unit will provide us with approximately 434 net BOEs of natural gas 15.5 Bcf of helium and probably more importantly approximately 2.4 Tcf of CO2 that's Denbury's interest in units.
Initial production of CO2 is expected probably in 4 to 5 years and we have to construct additional processing facilities to separate the CO2 from the remaining gas stream and of course the construction of a CO2 pipeline to our EOR field.
For the most part much of the expense in the pricing of CO2 would be carried by the sale of methane and helium.
The adjacent 28 000 operating acres of which we own 33% we are estimating the same [ph] reserves between 250 to 300 Bcf natural gas 9.5 to 11 Bcf helium and another 2 to 3.2 Tcf of proven CO2 net of Denbury's interest.
Although the development of these reserve is 7 to 8 years out the adjoining acreage becomes quite strategic while it feels like to say this is the Jackson Dome of the Rocky Mountains.
In some ways this Riley Ridge area maybe even better than our Jackson Dome as this massive reservoir in the Riley Ridge area may have total CO2 reserves greater than the Jackson Dome area.
And we have projected methane and helium sales to assist in covering the CO2 development costs.
As the pipeline construction in the Rocky Mountain area we are preparing to construct the 232-mile 20-inch diameter Greencore Pipeline that is going to connect ConocoPhillips-operated Lost Cabin processing facility to Bell Creek in Montana.
At this time we are waiting on the final approval from BLM to start that construction.
Denbury is beginning to position proven equipment in anticipation of the final approval.
Construction is scheduled from late August through November in the Natrona Johnson and Southern Campbell Counties Wyoming.
The pipeline will be constructed in 2 building seasons.
The first 115 miles pipeline will be target construction date as I said late August to November.
And a final segments are expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Now if we do not get the timely BLM permits we would plan to build the entire pipeline in 2012 rather than breaking it into 2 segments.
That can easily be accomplished.
In the Jackson Dome area CO2 daily production averaged over 1 Bcf for the first 6 months of the year.
So it's record production rates we continue to search for new reserves in the area.
We have a drilling rig working in the Gluckstadt Field where we are drilling a location.
This location has the opportunity to deliver increased CO2 production rates and it also could add additional proved reserves.
Our plans are to add a second drilling rig in the area during the latter part of September or during the fourth quarter that could test other geological structures that could prove up a portion of the 5.6 Tcf of probable and possible reserves in the Jackson Dome area.
With that I'll turn the other operations over to Craig.
Okay.
Thank you Bob.
I'm going to provide an overview of our CO2 EOR production operations for the last quarter as well as an update on the total company production outlook for the balance of the year -- for the rest of the year.
Tertiary production averaged 30 771 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the second quarter.
This is essentially flat to tertiary production in the first quarter of 2011.
Compared to the second quarter of 2010 tertiary production has increased by 2 264 barrels of oil equivalent per day and that's an 8% increase.
A high-level summary of our second quarter tertiary production is that our mature fields' decline was essentially offset by increases at Delhi Tinsley and Heidelberg.
With that I'll just -- I'll start moving through the phases and give you a brief overview of what's going on there.
In our most mature operating areas Phase 1 production decreased by approximately 8% quarter-to-quarter through an average rate of 11 037 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
There were a number of well repairs Brookhaven Field during the quarter which resulted in lower CO2 injections and contributed to the production decrease.
In general Phase 1 is entering the decline portion of its life.
Production from Phase 1 is expected to modestly declined from quarter-to-quarter fluctuations as performance work and other optimization activities are performed.
Phase 2.
Phase 2 production dropped by 380 barrels of oil equivalent per day compared to the first quarter which represents a modest 3% decline.
Of note is the Heidelberg Field.
This production grew by 5% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
While we had a production increase we were expecting more rapid growth in production similar to how the field responded last year.
Our investigation indicates that the more modern production growth we are experiencing is due to not getting CO2 plays into all 10 sand layers within the reservoir.
This has also lowered the predicted reservoir response and associated production.
This type of challenge is roughly common in those secondary and tertiary floods especially in reservoirs with multiple sand of varying permeability with rock characteristics vary across the field.
The industry uses the term conformance to describe this.
To address this challenge we've modified our reservoir management plan for Heidelberg so we can redirect more CO2 into the unswept intervals.
Intervention work includes modifying the zones into which CO2 is injected in specific wells changing perforation intervals and we'll likely drill a few new wells.
We believe that Heidelberg's ultimate recovery is unchanged.
However the modified reservoir management plan to address the conformance issue will result in a more modest production increase followed by a larger plateau period rather than a larger near-term increase previously anticipated.
Phase 3.
Tinsley Field production grew by 423 barrels of oil equivalent per day and that's 6% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
We're pleased that production is growing.
However we have slowed the 2011 development phase compared to what we originally forecast.
We did not anticipate the same rate of growth during the second half of 2011 as we originally planned.
We had forecasted reservoir will develop several new patterns this year by accelerating the drilling of the CO2 injection wells for multiple patterns.
We did sequentially drill several CO2 injection wells and we quickly started getting CO2 into the patterns.
Filling up the reservoir with CO2 increased the reservoir pressure which caused some unanticipated challenges drilling the new producing wells offsetting the injectors.
We showed several injection wells this past quarter so to allow the reservoir pressure to moderate so we can more easily drill the producers.
We've now finished drilling 5 of the 8 planned 2011 pattern.
And we're ramping back up our CO2 injection.
We expect the remaining 3 patterns to be brought on injections by October.
Although our efforts accelerate production from Tinsley has been delayed Tinsley will continue to be a great tertiary field with significant production growth.
It's just that the rapid production increase anticipated in 2011 will instead give more modest increase followed by an anticipated significant increase in 2012.
This reflects the reduced CO2 injection volume this year in the new patterns.
Estimated ultimate recovery is unchanged.
Sustaining [indiscernible] this is obvious.
The reason for the change at Tinsley's 2011 production profile is very different than what I described for Heidelberg.
Phase 4.
Cranfield's production increased by 9% to do the successful repair of one of our better wells which had impacted our first quarter production.
At Delhi which is Phase 5 we are joining a faster-than-anticipated production increase as a reservoir response to CO2.
Production increased by 739  barrels of oil equivalent per day which is a 48% increase compared to the first quarter.
We're very pleased with Delhi's response and expansion of that field continues.
With that we'll move to the future CO2 field and let's start with Phase 7.
We started injecting CO2 at the Hastings Field in December of 2010.
The goal is to build reservoir pressure up to our planned operating pressure by December of this year.
CO2 injections on schedule as is plant construction.
We're very pleased with the progress to date and we still anticipate the startup date of late fourth quarter 2011.
Phase 8.
The Oyster Bayou we began injecting CO2 during June of 2010.
Similar to the story of Hastings CO2 injection is on schedule as is plant construction.
We're very pleased with the progress and we anticipate a startup late in the first quarter of 2012.
Phase 9.
At Conroe our conventional fracture production was 2 826 barrels of oil equivalent in the second quarter.
In preparation for the future CO2 flood we're surveying the proposed CO2 pipeline route into the Conroe Field.
Moving to lease operating costs just a few comments there.
Regarding these operating costs during the second quarter of 2011 operating cost for our tertiary properties averaged $23.35 per BOE compared to our first quarter 2011 average of $25.40 per BOE.
Tertiary operating costs were down approximately $5 million compared to the first quarter and that's primarily due to reduced workover costs.
As you recall from our first quarter call workover costs were a bit higher due to the accelerated wellbore repairs at Brookhaven in the first quarter.
Let's now move to the full year forecast as that complete our production operations over the year.
As Bob mentioned we continue to be very encouraged by our Bakken well results.
The sustained poor weather still makes project execution and delayed production.
Also due tat the constrained regional natural gas processing infrastructure we flared on average approximately 35% of our produced salable gas.
Even with these challenges we believe we'll be able to make up much of the deferred Bakken oil production in the second half of the year assuming sustained good weather and continued well results.
For forecasting Bakken production to average 8 400 barrels of oil equivalent for the full year which is 300 barrels a day equivalent lower than previous guidance.
As previously mentioned 2011 tertiary production is being impacted by Heidelberg's still modified reservoir management plan to resolve the injection conformance and by Tensley Field's extended execution of pattern development.
Accordingly we're forecasting our 2011 tertiary production to average approximately 31 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is 1 500 barrels a day lower than previous guidance.
Combining tertiary Bakken and another conventional production together total company production is forecast to average approximately 65 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day this year.
This represents an 18 000-barrel a day equivalent reduction to previous guidance given.
For this point we're revising the 2011 full year production target downward.
However I do want to reiterate that the causes for the reduced reduction do not represent the diminished outlook for the ultimate recovery of the fields.
Weather and gas infrastructure in the Bakken the forced CO2 injection in Tinsley and CO2 injection conformance work at Heidelberg are the primary drivers of the change.
That concludes our remarks I'll turn the discussion back over to Phil.
Thanks guys.
Obviously a lot of good information from them.
We'll open it up for Q&amp;A.
Ernie can you come back on? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Phil or Tracy on the tertiary production I guess that the Heidelberg where it looks like it's coming a bit softer.
I think you gave some pretty good explanation that it doesn't look -- that the CO2 is getting to everywhere you need it to.
And remind me is this different than what occurred -- what was at McComb a couple of years back and you had this sort of change your injections in this well too? Yes Scott this is Tracy.
Yes it's completely different.
The McComb issue was we couldn't get the CO2 on the ground at the pressures we had designed where the project's at.
And Heidelberg we have no problems getting CO2 on the ground.
The problem is you have 10 individual reservoirs that all have their own properties.
And obviously with CO2 we have very low viscous fluid.
It's going to go to the path the least resistant.
And so what's happening is it's going in certain of the interval at the 10 intervals primarily 2 or 3 of them.
And as you know very well but are not getting CO2 into the other one.
So if you remember how we forecast it's [indiscernible] subjective for reserves.
We're not getting the CO2 in those reservoirs that's why it's not -- that's why we need to get the ramp that we expected this year.
So it is completely different.
We get CO2 on the ground harder.
that's not the problem.
You just got to get it in the right sand and keep some of it from going into these higher perm stands.
LLC</strong> So when you do that what is sort of the incremental capital costs doing something like that? Is it like drilling other wells specifically targeting those areas? Or is this just perfing existing wells to get to your -- how logistically does that work? We believe -- this is Craig.
It's going to be about another $1 million this year and probably $4 million to $5 million actually next year will be the incremental cost of the conformance work which has already began.
I mean it could be anything from relatively inexpensively dumping stand and blocking off lower stand.
You have to get sands in the middle.
You may have to do squeeze work and reincorporating stuff like that.
But again as a total per well it's not very much.
But it will add up to about $5 million or so.
And we have already adjusted the development plan on the east side.
This is East Heidelberg.
This is all West Heidelberg.
So we're hoping not to have the same issues.
I mean we will have the same issues we don't expect it to cause the change in the forecast.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess my sense is that it sounds like in every field has its own little nuance that you're certainly got to be aware of.
When you look at Hastings Oyster Bayou Conroe is there any thing in those reservoirs based on your experience with McComb and Heidelberg and Tinsley that you've learned that maybe applicable there as well? Well I don't think so.
I mean when you look at Hastings you look at how we developed it.
We recognize that we had multiple sands.
We're doing 4 simultaneous floods doing 2 sands or 3 sands at a time versus trying to do Heidelberg like 10.
Oyster Bayou and Conroe are really one sand to begin with.
They do have their own differences and that they're very thick.
And so we're looking at some things there to make sure that we get CO2 throughout the entire intervals.
But you're right.
Everyone is slightly different and we do use a similar forecasting methodology at the end.
But honestly until we start the injection and see how our aerial sweep how the CO2 is going in individual sands it's difficult to say how exactly how they're going to react.
So but now we won't have any problem injecting into or having no problem injecting into Hastings.
We're having no problem injecting in Oyster Bayou.
We won't have any problem injecting into Conroe.
This is really more of a conformance issue that it is being able to get CO2 on the ground.
LLC</strong> Okay all right.
And then Moving to the Bakken you all mentioned I think you said you have 5 rigs running and you're getting 3 new builds by the end of the year.
That's correct.
LLC</strong> And then there is a mention of -- you'd have 7 rigs running by the end of the year.
Is that -- does that imply that you just dropped one of the other rigs you have? Yes this is Bob.
On a rig schedule we have one of our rigs is going to continue to drill probably another 3 to 4 wells.
And then we will go ahead and release that and replace it with a more efficient rate.
These rigs that we're having they'll be easier to move and we started our pad drilling.
We'll be moving easily from one well to the other on the existing pad.
So yes we will end up with 70 now we're adding 3.
LLC</strong> And how many -- remind me how many frac-ers do you have contract or frac I guess? We have 5 fracs per month.
And we're looking to try to add another one as pick up another rig.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And so 5 frac dates gives you probably enough to what [indiscernible] provide a specific program right? Is that about right? Yes definitely.
If you take in the time it takes to move and those type of things.
And we're fortunate that we have a good relationships with our providers to service companies.
So we've been able to in some instances even pick up and do a 6 rig in a month or 6 frac in a month so we hope we'll be able to do.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And one last question on the Almond area it sounds like you're in a test go up [ph] there in terms of the back half the year.
What's the plan there? How many wells do you need to get down before you sort of make the decision? Is this basically a couple of wells and then you kind of either like it or don't like it? Or don't like it or is it going to be a little more extensive? We have 2 wells scheduled for the Almond area here in the third and fourth quarter to test it.
We'll make a decision as we go based on that gap.
We will go to the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Just a couple of things.
Returning to Heidelberg for a second I do remember that when Heidelberg was on the horizon a few years ago the thought was that it was pretty similar to Eucutta.
And if remember right the cost of Heidelberg was supposed to be lower because it didn't have as many sort of old plump wells to be reentered.
Did --has that analogy not panned out quite as you thought between 2 fields? Well I do think the costs [indiscernible] they have.
I mean we're not reentering hardly any wells.
We have plenty of wells.
So that's true.
The difference between Eucutta and Heidelberg Eucatta basically has 3 sands the flood we have 10 here.
And it is the same formation as the Utah formation.
So I mean it is responding similar to Eucutta.
The main difference is this conformance issue of getting the CO2 in all 10 sands as they need to be.
With only 3 Eucutta is a little bit easier.
I got it.
And the way that you expect these different sands will interact and vary and how they take in CO2 is that pretty similar across the field or are there areas of the field where some of the sands are just going to be more challenging than others? If you could isolate each sat individually they would CO2 just fine.
It's -- you have a fixed pressure and therefore it really depends on what your permeability is in each reservoir as to what will go in them.
And what we're seeing now is we have some very high perm zones that tend to take the vast majority of the CO2.
And that's one of the reasons why the response was so great early on is because all the CO2 is going in those and not much in these lower ones.
So now we got to get the CO2 in these lower perms zones.
I now take it in various wells that's not the issue.
It's just getting it designed the way that we have it forecasted.
Got it okay.
And thinking about the adjustments to we made in Heidelberg and also changing up the pace at Tinsley a little bit as you look forward and start doing your budgeting for next year is -- did those changes have much of an effect on what you might be doing in your overall plan for the year? No I mean when you look at Heidelberg we already made the modification in East Heidelberg in terms of -- over there it's the Stanley 1 that is going to be the sand that take a lot of CO2.
We're isolating here in certain wells we're not perforating in others.
So we've already made that adjustment on the East side of Heidelberg.
And as far as Tinsely no I wouldn't modify our plan.
I think we got probably a little aggressive this year trying to advance the stuff.
And fortunately with injecting the CO2 and then trying to drill at the same time it just wasn't a good situation.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the line of Gray Peckham with Susquehanna International.
LLLP</strong> Quick question about your Gulf Coast CO2 given the reduction of your reserves expected there at DRI Dick can you just remind us of how your CO2 supply lines up with your future needs down in the Gulf Coast? well even with the -- it's 200 Bcf 7.1 Tcf.
So you're talking about a very very small reduction.
It easily could be offset almost by performance upper performance revisions at year end at our existing CO2 field.
So really -- it's this point that we're on that's disappointing.
But it's really a nonevent in terms of our CO2 supplies for the Gulf Coast.
Which we're still testing a lot of that as Bob mentioned 5-plus Tcf are probably impossible.
So we're still very optimistic that we had more CO2 there.
And secondly these man-made sources are still on track in the Gulf Coast.
So short answer is we don't -- it's not a problem.
We do have a question from the line of Pierce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
I was curious if you could provide any update or your current thoughts on the possibility of trading your Bakken assets for some EOR.
Well I guess no news.
I don't know if that's good news or bad news.
It's just I guess the only was to answer is it's still a possibility but obviously we have to move very fast in some of the -- or if we talked to or -- of our nature they don't move very fast.
So in the meantime we're not too worried about it.
We're increasing our activity there going from 5 to 7 rigs and production is growing.
So I guess it's still an option but we're proceeding as though it has happened and development of the field on a more rapid basis.
Phil and then on cost inflation what's your outlook when you look at the Bakken? And then also compared to tertiary? I'll let Bob...
Well I mean you are seeing more competitive -- there's a lot of competition in the Bakken.
Right now the long laterals were pushing at about $9 million per well.
And about 7.5 to 7.8 on short 648 [indiscernible].
But again we've got some processes and things that we're putting in place in the Bakken to improve our efficiencies and reduce downtime.
It's all about the number of days are down.
So we're just trying to put it back in place by trucking agreement with these more efficient rigs and we're working with service companies to reduce that downtime.
I mean in short we'll probably see a little higher rate of inflation in the Bakken than EOR just because there's more competition.
But we're having some cost increases of a little bit everywhere just to begin.
Yes.
The biggest one on the tertiary side is steel.
I mean steel prices are definitely going up 10% 15%.
So that's a big part of the tertiary project.
It's not 100% so it's not -- our costs have not gone up to 15%.
But it is -- as far as the biggest thing portion of our tertiary costs that's going up.
Obviously CO2 [indiscernible] costs goes up as oil prices than the downward oil prices so it ranges just where oil prices are.
That's very helpful.
And then lastly I'm not sure if you can answer this but I know your partner was in the process of completing their first well in the Tuscaloosa marine shale.
I'm just curious if you had any update there? Well the only update we can have is that our partner is EnCana.
But that has not to release any well results until they're ready.
Well we can't really release any well results.
There are no further questions in queue.
And Mr.
Rykhoek I'm turning the call back over to you.
Okay.
Well thanks everybody.
Just to give you a little update on upcoming events our next 2 conferences will be the Intercom Conference in Denver on August 15 and 16 and then the Barclays conference in New York on September 6 and 7.
We'll have our entire senior team in Intercom and Craig and I will be up at the Barclays Conference.
I also promised a trip to Midwest so we're tentatively scheduling that for the week of September 19.
And please check with Laurie if you want to set up a meeting in these events.
And then also just looking ahead we'll have more further details in the future.
You might mark your calendars for a full Analyst Meeting at least tentatively we're scheduling for November 14 and 15.
We're going to go down to the Hastings Field just outside of Houston.
So that might be easier for you guys particularly from the East Coast to get down there.
And we will give you more details on that as we get a little closer.
So we look forward to seeing you all again soon.
Thank you for your support of Denbury.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks again for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Denbury Resources Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Joining us today will be Phil Rykhoek President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Robert Cornelius Senior Vice President of CO2 Operations; and Craig McPherson Senior Vice President of the Production Operations.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I will turn the call over to Denbury's Chief Executive Officer Phil Rykhoek.
Thank you Christina.
I should remind listeners that today's comments may include forward-looking statements consisting of opinions forecasts projections and so forth that are not historical facts.
They're based on current assumptions estimates and projections but subject to risks and uncertainties that are detailed in our SEC reports so we encourage you to review those in our SEC document.
Christina already introduced the people that we have on the call.
They're senior team here at Denbury.
So we'll just jump right into the results.
Our bottom line results this quarter were at record levels for the second straight quarter in spite of a drop in average NYMEX oil prices of nearly $13 a barrel between the second and third quarters of 2011.
Adjusted net income was $148.2 million up slightly from the $146.7 million in the second quarter.
Adjusted cash flow was $357.7 million up slightly from the $344.1 million recorded in Q2.
Of course the reported book year operating results are quite different with the reconciling items in the noncash nonrecurring items.
Part of our positive results were due to the improving NYMEX WTI oil differentials with our net oil price that we received a little bit over $2.50 a barrel sequentially compared to WTI but even more importantly up more than $11 a barrel from a year ago if you're looking at the differentials between NYMEX and our net price.
So the way you interpret that is if you see $90 on the screen that is effectively equivalent to over $100 a barrel on a net realized price basis compared with our historical differentials just a year ago.
The LLS differentials continue to expand during the quarter and we continue to improve our contractual prices and we are currently selling about 62% of our crude on a contractual basis other than WTI.
Our production grew approximately 3% sequentially generally on track with the prior guidance for 2011 and although Mark will give you more detail we also showed improvement in many of our expenses when you compare the sequential quarters all of which contribute to the improved income and cash flow.
I might I also remind you that we continue to have over 90% of our production from crude oil making us one of the highest oil weighted companies.
In summary I think you'll find this quarter's results to be on track or slightly better than expected.
In addition to the positive quarterly results we're happy to report a 12% quarterly increase in our crude oil and gas reserves which now stand at approximately 460 million BOE and we added just over 300 Bcf to our proved CO2 reserves at Jackson Dome and Bob will give you more details on that.
I'd also like to point out the results to date with our share repurchase program.
As of October 31 we have repurchased approximately 3% of the company at a cost of around $150 million average price of $13.58 per share.
This may be one of the most accretive $150 million we have spent in recent history and means that we have improved all of our per share metrics going forward by approximately 3%.
Described a different way we have purchased just under 2 000 barrels a day or $150 million a great price today for oil production.
Further all purchases of the share price were below our estimate of proved net asset value at current oil prices.
Our repurchase program continues on autopilot until after the Analyst Meeting as a result of a 10b5 plan we enacted last month and in going forward we will consider the purchase for stock up to the $500 limit when Denbury is -- when legally Denbury is trading below our proved net asset value.
Today we'll give you more detail in the second quarter results but we are going to more discussing 2012.
We plan to cover our 2012 plans in detail on our forthcoming Analyst Meeting in just a little bit over a week on Monday November 14.
At that time we will release 2012 production and CapEx guidance and provide a more thorough update on all of our activities.
So with that introduction let's take a look at the details for our quarter and we'll start with Mark's review of the numbers.
Thanks Phil.
As Phil mentioned Denbury achieved record profitability levels again this quarter in both income and adjusted cash flows.
For the next few minutes I'll provide further analysis of our third quarter results primarily focusing on the sequential results of the third and second quarters of 2011 and I will also provide some forward-looking information for your projections.
As reported in our press release Denbury's adjusted net income for the third quarter was $148.2 million or $0.37 per basic common and diluted share slightly more than our adjusted net income of $146.7 million or $0.37 per share in the second quarter.
Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes certain items such as fair value hedging gains and losses and other unusual or nonrecurring items.
We believe this is a better reflection of our ongoing period-to-period results.
A reconciliation to get from adjusted net income to our reported net income on a GAAP basis of $275.7 million or $0.69 per basic common share is included in our press release.
In the third quarter we had fair value hedging gain of $205.6 million due primarily to lower NYMEX oil futures prices at the end of September.
Our cash flow from operations before working capital changes increased to $357.7 million this quarter up from $344.1 million last quarter another company record.
Our total company production for this quarter was 66 830 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 3% from last quarter's production.
Our tertiary production averaged 31 091 barrels per day up 1% from last quarter's tertiary production and our Bakken production averaged 9 976 BOE per day up 31% from last quarter's Bakken production.
Craig and Bob will go into more detail on our production results in a few minutes.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was $96.85 per barrel this quarter as compared to $106.30 per barrel in Q2.
Crude oil derivative contracts reduced our net oil price by $0.33 per barrel this quarter as compared to $3.13 per barrel in Q2.
On a total company basis our NYMEX WTI oil price differential continued its positive trend increasing to $7.25 per barrel above NYMEX this quarter as compared to $3.72 per barrel above NYMEX in Q2.
For our tertiary oil production the average NYMEX price differential was $14.84 per barrel this quarter as compared to $9.69 per barrel above NYMEX in Q2 with some of our tertiary production receiving average positive NYMEX differentials of nearly $20 for this quarter.
Differentials in our Northern properties also improved with our Bakken production averaging $5.62 per barrel below NYMEX an improvement of $4 per barrel from the NYMEX differential in Q2.
We continue to see the Light Louisiana Sweet oil price trading at a significant premium to the WTI NYMEX oil price.
However recently we have seen some reduction in LLS versus NYMEX differential.
We have shifted as much oil production to the LLS market as possible with roughly 42% of our oil production now marketed at an oil price that incorporates LLS pricing.
We currently anticipate that our company-wide NYMEX differential should remain strong in Q4.
However it is uncertain how long the Gulf Coast differentials will remain at historic highs that the positive LLS to NYMEX differential has recently pulled back from the high 20s to the high teens.
Our hedging positions for Q4 2011 and 2012 have remained unchanged since Q2 but we have added additional hedges for the first quarter of 2013.
Thus far we have hedged roughly 70% of our anticipated oil production for the first quarter of 2013 with collars that have a full price of $70 per barrel and a weighted average cap of near $110 per barrel.
We paid approximately $2 million on our oil hedge settlements this quarter while cash settlements in our gas hedges provided us $6 million.
Our lease operating expense per BOE was up 1% over last quarter averaging $22.21 per BOE this quarter and $21.99 per BOE last quarter.
The increase was primarily due to higher costs on our tertiary operations offset by the impact of our growing Bakken production which has a lower per BOE production cost than our tertiary operations.
LOE for our tertiary operations averaged $25.34 per barrel this quarter as compared to $23.35 per barrel in Q2 due primarily to higher workover costs.
Looking forward to Q4 I would expect our total company LOE per BOE would remain around levels similar to this quarter and the $22-plus per BOE range.
G&amp;A expenses decreased from $30.9 million in Q2 to $28.9 million this quarter.
The decrease in this quarter's G&amp;A was primarily attributable to a reduction in bonus accrual offset in part by increases in other compensation costs including compensation related to Mr.
Evans' resignation and a reduction in office rent due to the termination of legacy Encore office space.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 I would expect that our G&amp;A expense will be in the range of $34 million to $36 million with approximately $9 million to $10 million of that expense related to stock-based compensation.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest decreased sequentially from $42.2 million last quarter to $37.6 million this quarter with the decrease due primarily to additional capitalized interest in this quarter.
Capitalized interest was $17.9 million this quarter as compared to $13.2 million in Q2.
Average debt outstanding was $2.4 billion this quarter as compared to $2.3 billion in Q2 with the increase due primarily to higher bank debt associated with our Riley Ridge acquisition in Q3.
We currently expect that our capitalized interest will be around $18 million to $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We had $110 million outstanding on our $1.6 billion bank credit line at the end of the quarter.
As of the end of October our bank borrowings were $350 million and net borrowings were approximately $270 million after considering our cash on hand.
Before considering the impact from stock repurchases we were estimating to end the year with somewhere around $225 million to $250 million drawn on our bank line depending on many things including the timing of capital expenditures cash flows and working capital requirements.
As Phil mentioned we have purchased approximately $150 million in Denbury stock through October 31 under our share repurchase program which is authorized to purchase up to $500 million.
For 2011 our capital budget remains at $1.35 billion which excludes approximately $100 million of estimated expenditures for capitalized interest and tertiary startup costs and assumes approximately $60 million in expenditures financed with operating leases.
We currently estimate that our projected capital expenditures including capitalized interest and tertiary startup costs will be $150 million to $250 million greater than our estimated cash flow from operations which should be covered for the most part by our excess cash we had on hand at the end of 2010.
Therefore estimated borrowings on our bank line before stock repurchases would essentially be related to our acquisitions during 2011.
Our metrics continue to be very strong with our debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 33% and our debt to Q3 annualized adjusted cash flow at approximately 1.7x.
Our DD&amp;A per BOE decreased to $16.59 per BOE this quarter as compared to $17.52 per BOE in Q2.
This decrease is primarily due to the incremental reserves from the Riley Ridge acquisition.
I will anticipate that this rate will increase somewhat in Q4.
Our effective income tax rate was slightly less than our 38% statutory tax rate for the third quarter due to benefits previously unrecognized.
In addition we had a net benefit to current income taxes due to a change in tax treatment for certain items which resulted in the reclassification of approximately $15 million from current to deferred taxes in the current period.
For Q4 I anticipate that our tax credit will be slightly higher than our 38% statutory rate with current taxes in the range of 5% to 10% assuming we are able to take advantage of certain deductions under the new tax law which we believe we will be able to deduct most capital expenditures which we would normally have to recoup over time.
Most of our current taxes are associated with state taxes at this time.
One last item I would like to mention is that we currently anticipate that we will incur $9 million to $12 million in CO2 exploration expense during the fourth quarter related to the drilling of an exploration well at Jackson Dome.
As you may recall we cannot apply oil and gas accounting rules to our CO2-related expenditures and therefore these costs will be expensed even if the well is successful.
Our upcoming Analyst Meeting will provide more information on our projections for 2012 and now I'll turn it over to Craig.
Okay thank you Mark.
I'm going to provide an overview of our CO2 EOR production operations for the last quarter.
Tertiary production averaged 31 091 barrels of oil per day during the third quarter.
This is an increase of 320 barrels of oil per day compared to tertiary production in the second quarter of 2011.
Compared to the third quarter of 2010 tertiary production has increased by 1 560 barrels per day which is a 5% increase.
The high-level summary of our third quarter tertiary production compared to second quarter is that our mature field decline was more than offset by significant increases in Delhi and improvement at Cranfield.
In our most mature operating area Phase 1 production decreased by approximately 5% quarter-to-quarter to an average rate of 10 534 barrels of oil per day.
As mentioned in the second quarter call in general Phase 1 is entering the decline portion of its life.
Production from Phase 1 is expected to decline with quarter-to-quarter fluctuations as we do conformance work and other optimization activities.
Phase 2.
Phase 2's production averaged 8 910 barrels per day just a drop of 485 barrels per day compared to the second quarter.
This represents a 5% decline.
The West Heidelberg Field was shut in for a few days during the quarter for maintenance and repairs.
The conformance work at West Heidelberg Field which we mentioned in the second quarter conference call continues.
By year-end 2011 we expect to have drilled 3 new wells and modified the injection or production profile on 39 wells to redirect CO2 into previously unswept intervals in Heidelberg.
Additionally tertiary production began at East Heidelberg late in the third quarter although we're early in the response we're very pleased with this initial performance.
Overall production from the combined Heidelberg Fields will grow modestly into 2012 with fluctuations from quarter-to-quarter.
Phase 3.
Tinsley Field's production in the third quarter was 7 075 barrels per day.
This is an increase of 85 barrels a day compared to the second quarter of 2011.
As we were expanding the CO2 sled into new patterns in the Tinsley Field we found that several oil fields -- I'm sorry several old wells dating back to the 1940s and '50s have been improperly plugged and abandoned by prior operators.
The old wells which were reported as having been plugged and abandoned by the previous operators did not have sufficient cement in the old wellbores.
Without the cement plugs in place we were unable to confine the CO2 injection into the specific target zones so we have to stop injecting CO2 into several patterns reduce the reservoir pressure in those patterns and work over 13 wells to properly plug them.
Additionally we are in the process of locating and checking 45 additional old wells which were plugged and abandoned by prior operators to determine if they were properly plugged.
We anticipate completing the needed well work and restarting injection in impacted patterns in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Reducing the CO2 injection has lowered our previously anticipated production growth from Tinsley this year and pushed back anticipated 2012 production growth.
This has not changed our overall expectations of recovery for Tinsley.
In fact we were starting to see a very nice production response from the new patterns when this issue with the old P&amp;A-d wells occurred.
Moving to Phase 4.
Cranfield's production increased to 1 214 barrels per day which is a 12% increase as additional wells responded to CO2.
In Phase 5 Delhi continues to enjoy a faster-than-anticipated production increase as the reservoir response to CO2 injection and we've put more wells online.
Production increased by 1 095 barrels per day which is a 48% increase compared to the previous quarter.
We are very pleased with Delhi's response and expansion on that field continues.
With that I'll move to our future CO2 fields Phase 7.
We started injecting CO2 in the Hastings Field in December of 2010.
The goal was to build reservoir pressure up to our target operating pressure by our planned startup date.
CO2 injection is on schedule and reservoir pressure continues to increase.
Our facility construction has slipped by about a month due to equipment delivery delays and will now likely be ready to start up in late January 2012.
In Phase 8 which is Oyster Bayou we began injecting CO2 during June of 2010.
CO2 injection and the expected reservoir pressure increases are ahead of schedule.
Also we're very pleased with the construction progress.
With that the possibility exists of an earlier-than-scheduled startup.
Startup could be as early as January of 2012.
If Oyster Bayou continues on its ahead-schedule pace both the Hastings and Oyster Bayou Fields could be really turn on essentially at the same time.
If so we may change the order and start up Oyster Bayou Field first followed by Hastings.
We expect initial production rate from the Oyster Bayou Field to ramp up faster than Hastings so turning on Oyster Bayou first will maximize our 2012 production.
Move to Phase 9.
Conroe's conventional production was 2 800 barrels a day in the third quarter which is relatively unchanged from the second quarter and our other non-tertiary production excluding Bakken experienced modest declines during the quarter.
Regarding lease operating costs during the third quarter of 2011 operating costs for our tertiary properties averaged $25.34 per barrel which compares to our second quarter 2011 average of $23.35 a barrel.
Tertiary operating costs were up approximately $7 million compared to the second quarter.
This is due to about $3 million in increased costs related to the repair and performance work at Heidelberg Field and some of the well work at Tinsley.
We also had spending increases in labor and equipment rental.
The non-tertiary operating costs were flat compared to the second quarter of 2011 and then looking at the total company lease operating costs on a unit basis for the third quarter they were $22.21 a barrel.
That completes our tertiary production operations overview for the third quarter.
Just mentioning our full year forecast our outlook for the full year 2011 production is unchanged from the guidance provided at last quarter's call of 31 000 barrels per day tertiary production and 65 600 barrels per day for the total company production.
That concludes my remarks and I'll turn our conversation over to Bob.
Thank you Craig.
I'll discuss our third quarter Bakken activity the Riley Ridge acquisition and then report on the major pipelines and CO2 supply projects.
Improved drilling and completion activity in the Bakken continued during the third quarter as we ramped up from 5 drilling rigs to 7 working rigs during the period.
The drilling activity resulted in improved production rates and additional proved reserves during the fourth quarter for our Bakken production.
Our Bakken team continues to introduce improvements in the drilling and completion process as well as overall well operation.
Operational advancements are evident in several areas.
Drilling times the number of completions and initial and sustainable production rates continue to see improvement.
Improvement of course are measures to results.
We saw Bakken production rates increase during the third quarter with production average 9 976 net BOEs quarter-to-quarter.
That's a 31% increase over the second quarter Bakken production rates.
Drilling time measures from spud dates to spud release also improved from the first quarter to the second quarter and again from the second quarter to the third quarter.
We saw an average of 59 days for the long laterals during the winter months during the first quarter.
That reduced to an average rate day rate of 40 drilling days during the second quarter dropping again to an average of 33 days during the third quarter.
Denbury contracted 3 new high flex -- 3 rigs.
These are now working in the basin.
With these new drilling rigs our goal is to continue to shave off the number of days to drill and the rig moves.
We drilled a test well in the Almond area during October.
After logging we found the Almond area's new Bakken had oil saturations lower than other productive Bakken areas.
This logging and petrophysical analysis indicated a noncommercial completion.
This is coupled with the poor result of other Bakken -- Almond area wells.
We decided to cancel that second well in the Almond.
So our Almond area consists of about 65 000 acres which means we hold an excess of approximately 200 000 acres when you exclude that Almond acreage.
Adjusting the Almond area possible and probable reserves Denbury's total Bakken 3P reserves will still be in excess of approximately 300 million barrels of oil.
Completion processes and results continue to improve during the third quarter again measuring these results against prior period.
The average initial potentials from our completion were just over 2 197 BOEs per day during the third quarter that compared to an average initial potential of 1 496 BOEs per day from the wells completed during the second quarter.
Several recent IPs in the Cherry area were the wells 13-24 which are IP-ed at 2 414 BOEs per day and it rolls on 11-16 northeast horizontal which had initial potential of 2 694 BOEs per day.
For a complete list of Bakken completions please see our web page where we listed every well completed this year.
With the improved initial rates our current completion schedules and fair weather conditions we are forecasting that we will meet our 2011 forecast guidance with an average production rate for the year of 8 440 BOEs per day exiting the year with an average net production rate in excess of 11 000 net BOEs per day.
So with successful drilling and completion in the Cherry area and other Bakken areas we had reserve at we were able to book 11.6 million barrels of proved reserves in the Bakken this quarter.
As we move forward in the Bakken the 2012 capital budget dollars will determine how many rigs will run going forward and we'll have more detail on that at our 2012 capital -- at forthcoming Analyst Meeting.
Moving to Riley Ridge Wyoming.
As we reported last quarter Denbury completed the acquisition of the remaining 57.5% working interest and 9 700-acre Riley Ridge unit and we also acquired a 33% working interest and additional 28 000 acres adjoining Riley Ridge.
Denbury assumes operator share for both projects on August 1.
Strategically the Riley Ridge unit will provide us with approximately 435 net Bcf of natural gas 15.5 Bcf of helium and more importantly approximately 2.4 Tcf of CO2 net Denbury's interest.
The first production of natural gas and helium from Riley Ridge is expected to begin late in the first quarter of 2012.
This is a little later than we initially expected to their plant startup.
Initial production of CO2 is expected in approximately 5 years following construction of additional processing facilities to separate the CO2 from the remaining natural gas stream and the construction of a CO2 pipe to those -- to our EOR field.
For the most part much of this expense of processing the CO2 will be carried by the sale of the helium and the methane.
With the adjusted 28 000 operated acreage acquired we have also a 33% working interest and so those net interest is expected to contain probable reserves of 250 to 300 Bcf of natural gas 9.5 to 11.5 Bcf of helium and 2 to 2.2 Tcf of proved CO2 reserves net Denbury's interest.
Of those -- the development of these reserves are 7 to 8 years out.
The adjoining acreage becomes strategic to us which Phil likes to call it our Jackson Dome with the Rocky Mountains.
In some way the Riley Ridge area may be even better than Jackson Dome as the medicine [ph] reservoir in the Riley Ridge area probably has more CO2 reserves greater than Jackson Dome and we have the projected methane and helium sales to cover the cost of that development of CO2.
I want to move to pipeline construction.
In the Rocky Mountain area we are starting construction of the 232-mile 20-inch Greencore Pipeline that connects ConocoPhillips' operated Lost Cabin processing facility to our Bell Creek Field in Montana.
Construction started during the latter part of August with work continuing through November or until winter probably shuts us down.
The CO2 pipeline construction is in Natrona Johnson and the Southern Campbell counties.
The pipeline will be constructed in 2 building seasons.
The 114 miles of pipeline is targeted to have a completion date of some time November 2011 or until winter and then the final segments will be expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2012.
We expect the pipeline to be commissioned and placed in service some time late 2012 or early 2013.
I'll move to the Jackson Dome area where our CO2 daily production rates averaged over 1 Bcf during the quarter.
During the quarter we also finished drilling and completing the Anderson 1-2 well which should be placed online some time this week or early next.
Preliminary estimates indicate additional gross proved reserves of approximately 310 Bcf from this well.
Two drilling rigs are currently working in the Jackson Dome area.
One well is drilling in the Gluckstadt Field.
We anticipate this well will be completed some time during the first quarter of 2012 and this will allow us to increase the CO2 production rates to many of our fields.
The second well in the Jackson Dome area we're currently drilling is on a separate geological structure that could prove up a portion of the 5.6 Tcf of probable and possible of CO2 reserves located in the Jackson Dome area.
On our reserve bookings during the quarter our total proved hydrocarbon reserves as of September 30 2011 are estimated to be 463 million BOEs.
That has a PV-10 value of $10.3 billion for those reserves based on the average first-day month price for the proceeding 12 months.
This compares to a second quarter PV-10 value of $9.3 billion and a year-end 2012 PV-10 value of $7.3 billion.
So after accounting for production during the first 9 months we have added 83 million barrels of equivalent.
The reserve additions are primarily in the Bakken and related to Riley Ridge acquisition with minimal changes to our EOR reserves.
With the production prices used in third quarter estimates were $94.50 per barrel and $4.23 per MMBtu compared to $79.43 per barrel and $4.45 per MMBtu gas at year end.
For the quarter third quarter the largest reserve adds were the 39.5 million barrels at Riley Ridge which was a Cimarex acquisition and then of course 11.6 million barrels we added at the Bakken.
One last thing we continue to monitor status of our CO2 capture projects in which we have purchased contracts.
We have Mississippi Power.
Mississippi Power continues to make progress in their construction of their Kemper County plant and with expected first deliveries in 2014 and Air Products is making progress in advancing their capture activities with first delivery some time in 2013.
With that I will turn it over to Phil.
Okay thanks guys.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So Christina can you come back on and let's take some Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering -- I missed a couple of the early comments on the tertiary side but how are things moving along with the I say the Conroe Field? Is that still on track I guess to see injections in 2013? Well Conroe is actually expected in '14 but we'll give you an update of that at the Analyst Meeting.
[indiscernible] that that will factor in some of our CapEx guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you guys still looking at adding additional CO2 fields or probably additional oilfields to the portfolio down in the Gulf Coast? And if so how is the market down there currently? I would love to.
I mean we always looking for additional fields and we are looking at some.
We have to reach a deal with the seller and so that's really part of the holdup.
That I guess I could probably say we may not be chasing that quite as hard as we used to because we have a pretty good inventory of fields and have growth for about the next 10 years but as those become available or the -- we could get interested in someone selling them to us.
We'd be happy to inventory them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
One last question moving up into the Bakken.
There's been a couple of good well results here in the last 24 hours as well as additional commentary on some additional Three Forks plays.
Have you guys looked at additional Three Forks locations on your acreage? Yes.
This is Bob Cornelius.
Yes we are drilling some Three Forks.
Right now we're still in the process of holding leases but we're also looking at Three Forks.
And yes we have drilled some Three Forks and we have had some pretty good results on those also.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now what recovery factor are you looking at for your wells up in the Bakken right now? Well it depends on where you're looking at.
The Cherry area has really performed well for us and so up in that area we're looking at some pretty strong reserves 5.75 for the Cherry area.
Yes that's kind of our medium case or kind of the average case I guess would be the Cherry which is about 5.75 and then there's a couple of areas that are slightly better than that and then there are some a little bit worse if you kind of get on the fringes kind of outside the center core area.
The next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a few things I wanted to ask you about.
At Jackson Dome the Anderson well that you had that was a development well right not an exploration well? Yes it was a development well or it is development well.
Research Division</strong> Oh okay.
Great.
And for the second well you're working on do you have any pre-drill expectations for that? It's going to also be a right work well.
It will also be a development well so I don't know that we're going to add it other than the development probably be something close to the Anderson.
The exploratory one's also drilling.
That's the one that may add some additional reserves but it could be anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And you talked about possibly doing Oyster Bayou ahead of Hastings.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And when are you going to have a sense as to exactly which one you're going to proceed with first? Is that something you'll know pretty soon or...
We will know that pretty soon.
The current trend is it will be always Oyster Bayou first.
It continues to be ahead of schedule both on the construction side and on the reservoir fill-up.
So unless we see something in the commissioning it's going -- we're going to start up Oyster Bayou first.
We prefer to start kind of one at a time because we kind of have if you will one startup crew.
So we have to make that call fairly soon but as Craig said it looks like Oyster Bayou may get started getting first and would send the crew over to Hastings to start it after that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And actually just to sort of drill down a little bit on a question that was asked before it was this morning that Continental had -- or actually last night Continental had put out a report on their theory that -- and actually they have one well and I guess just proved that out that they see up to 4 different benches in the Three Forks.
And they did their first well to the second bench and it looked like it was pretty good.
So I think what we're trying to get at is have you guys bid down a bit of seismic and quarrying in advance to try to identify these? Do you have any plans to look at different targets within the Three Forks in the near term? Yes I heard those results too.
They're pretty exciting.
We're still looking at -- again we're looking at Three Forks.
I mean we're looking at anywhere between 450 to 500 for the Three Forks and yes.
So the answer is yes.
We're looking at it but we've got to do some more research on it.
Again we're trying to first hold leases which is in the mid-Bakken and then we'll move to the Three Forks afterwards.
And by the way too just to add one more comment the program that we have drilling right now we're going to have all acreage held by the end of the first quarter.
So by March April all of our leases will be held.
Then we'll move into a development program actually driven by results rather than driven by acreage exploration.
So we'll be able to redirect some things after the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Oh terrific.
So do you have any sense at this point just in terms of capital and your various priorities? I mean would that give you the option to sort of slow down things a little bit in the Bakken if you wanted? Well yes.
Again you're getting into 2012.
I know we're trying to kind of keep 2012 discussion postponed till to the 14th.
But yes it does give us a lot of flexibility.
Of course we do have rig commitment and so forth and then also as Bob said we can focus on the best wells and do some development drilling and hopefully save a little cost and less rig movement and so forth.
So I think it will be a overall improvement to our programming.
We've been chasing lease explorations so far and so we've been moving rigs a lot and that of course adds to the cost and also reduces the number of wells we can get drilled in a month.
We'll move to the line of Jeff Robertson with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Phil in terms of the stock repurchases can you all talk about how you balance the amount of that you're willing to do versus capital spending plans in 2012 and cash flow and how much you're willing to borrow to fund share repurchases versus -- at some point maybe reducing capital spending to do that or reallocating capital spending? Yes I mean I can't -- conceptually we have said that we're very conscious of not levering up our balance sheet.
So as we spend money on stock we'll fund it with something else most likely capital reduction in capital expenditures.
We're also potentially looking at some small asset sales again probably have more detail at the Analyst Meeting.
And I think we're probably going to present a case at the Analyst Meeting where we spend 250 on stock just to kind of take the middle case because there's a lot of moving parts here.
There's oil prices moving and the amount of stock we buy moving stuff around and so forth.
So it gets a little hard but we're very conscious of the balance sheet.
So I think we would go try not draw on our bank line very much in 2012 when you net everything all together.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly at Tinsley can you all talk a little bit more about the well or the cementing issues and how long you think it will take to get that field or the rest of the wells checked out and get that work the remedial work completed and back on -- with the field back on schedule? Yes just a bit more color to the Tinsley issue we've been injecting CO2 intensely since 2007 with no issues and there's a -- within that field there were -- within areas that we've previously flooded there was lots and lots of old abandoned wells and there were no issues with them.
The problems we had encountered were in a localized geographic area that's flooding.
What we noticed about that specific area is that there was a different company operator who had previously worked those wells over or worked on those wells and had abandoned them.
Clearly the quality of their work was poor and the wells were not plugged in a manner that works consistent with regulations or industry standard.
They had been reported to the state as properly plugged.
They were not and so we are going into those wells to properly plug them.
That work will be finished over the course of the next few weeks.
We're also in the process as I mentioned of checking other wells just to make sure that they are properly plugged.
We believe they are but we're just doing a bit more checking due diligence to ensure that they are.
But we would expect in the fourth quarter to have all of that work finished to resume CO2 injection and put the field back on the upward trend.
Research Division</strong> So you wouldn't think that reducing the CO2 pressure and therefore the production in that area the field would have much of an impact on how you book reserves in that field at the end of 2011.
Is that correct? No we see absolutely no long-term change to the ultimate recovery of Tinsley.
In fact as I mentioned also we were starting to see a very nice response in these new patterns when this issue with this P&amp;A-d well showed up.
Yes Jeff we've already booked reserves pretty significant proved reserves at Tinsley and we don't see this having any impact on that at all.
There are still some probable reserves but we would expect to get this -- that over time as we show the production responses and as you recall we typically book somewhere in the range of 75% of our estimate as proven just to give us a little conservatism.
Then we hope we'll recognize that remaining 25% over the next several years.
So no changes to the reserves at Tinsley as a result of this.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll move to the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly following up on the P&amp;A issue do you guys have recourse to the original operators or the people who did the P&amp;A work there? No.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry? No we did not.
These were wells that were plugged and abandoned some in the 1940s and '50s.
They go way back.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching over to the Bakken for a second you've talked about the efficiency gains that you guys have experienced.
Can you put those in the context of what that's done for well cost? Our well cost right now when things go right are running around $9.6 million to drill and complete a long lateral.
If things don't go so well or we have a rig moved it's running above $10 million.
Probably about $10.4 million was the average of the last ones that didn't go very well.
So -- but I think the efficiencies that we've gained -- and I'm just trying to use as many wells.
I'm not trying to chop them into small groups.
But some of those inefficiencies that we saw that drove our costs up are things that we have corrected either by getting better rigs or putting better people on our wells.
Remember we started this program from Encore with just 2 drilling rigs we had to ramp up our first 5 and now to 7 and we've had to gain people and we gained a lot of experience during that time.
So I think we're seeing some things.
Again our average cost if things go right about $9.6 million and if they don't about $10.4 million.
We hope that once we get into some development drilling we can shave some off that $9.6 million.
Precise load is we're not sure but at least a few hundred thousand.
So we get to the low 9s probably we'll get it down [ph].
Research Division</strong> With the new rigs that you guys are bringing in there currently I mean to the end of the year shouldn't that also help push that down a little bit? And what kind of rate of change will you think about there? Or just what is your target for ultimate development drilling costs? Well I think what we're trying to see right now is again we are getting to a point we're starting to hold acreage.
So what we've done is we have started out looking at where we can drill twin wells and automatically that shaves off $400 000.
We're also looking at how we're completing the wells with some different completion techniques.
So maybe we'll be down to $9.4 million $9.5 million or maybe $9 million flat.
Maybe we can get down to $9 million flat if things go right of course.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just in terms of the completions or just general service environment is that starting to free up? Are you having any issues with getting additional frac crews as you've brought additional rigs in? Can you kind of give us color on how the landscape's changing up there? Yes we've had agreement with several providers and so so far we've not experienced too big a problem of getting our frac crews in there.
We've been able to accomplish what we need to accomplish and we hope to continue those relationships and add to those relationships.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last one just looking at the wells that you mentioned earlier Phil where you list all the lateral lines frac stages et cetera or actually it's really frac stages can you talk a little bit about the improvement in well production Q3 versus Q2 when it looks like frac stage has averaged about the same thing? I think what we've done is we've just -- like I said we've learned a lot and it's just more in efficiency of how we're frac-ing the well and we're changing up a little bit of the way the pre-pads pump.
We're changing the way the gels are mixed and the qualities and quantity of sand we're putting into the well.
Sometimes when you just start tweaking the small things and it's really a process as much as it is a mixture of what's going into the well.
Yes pretty much what Bob gave you.
Results for the last couple of wells in the Cherry I mean they're a couple of the best wells we've had to date so we were generally seeing some I think some small improvements in the production rate.
Yes and then a lot of our reserves the 11.5 million barrels is from the Cherry area where we've seen some significant increases in our reserves and what we used to book prior that's helped us.
We'll move the line of Nick Pope with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Quick question I mean just kind of as see Delhi starting to ramp up where do you think production rates -- I mean where are you all going to focus on trying to get production rates at Delhi? How long is it going to take for that ramp-up? Well we expect it to continue to grow.
I think if -- what does our slide show say 5 000? I don't know.
I have to look at our slide show I mean to see what we expect Delhi to -- which one that is.
We get that little chart and share what the expected rates are.
But Delhi's performed well so things do tend to sometimes plateau from time to time.
As things move around -- actually it's 5 to 10 so I misspoke.
So we got ways to go.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay sounds good.
And I guess just kind of further on Tinsley like when do you think kind of this plateau or this little near-term kind of dip how long do you think that's going to last before you start to see the ramp-up again in Tinsley? Well we're -- actually fourth quarter there's a chance that it actually slips a little bit because we have curtailed injections while we've been doing this well work.
Then we plan to start reinjection as Craig said in the fourth quarter probably kind of late in the year probably December.
And then it may take a few months to pressure that up.
So I think you're probably -- before you see significant growth with Tinsley it'll be probably in the second half of '12.
And we'll move to the line of Gray Peckham with Susquehanna International.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Quick question on Delhi you've mentioned a couple of times that you're getting faster-than-anticipated production response there.
What's behind that? Can you kind of flush that out a little bit? Well part of it is I just -- we were getting a good injection rate into the reservoir the reservoir quality probably a bit better than initially thought.
As we've talked before it's a bit of a challenge to understand just exactly how the reservoir will respond and so we kind of take them -- the middle estimate at the range of possible outcomes and the fact of the matter is Delhi is performing at the upper range of our expectations.
And it's a function of reservoir quality as well as efficiency as how the CO2 goes into the rock and from Delhi to Pearce we have a very efficient sled.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And in the Bakken we've heard a bunch of other operators say we're seeing kind of rapid increases in completion costs lately.
Are you kind of able to mitigate those by your recent efficiencies? Is that how you're managing things there? Or can you give us some color on what you're seeing in terms of that market? Yes we -- yes again we're -- the market is tight but we do have some agreements with our providers.
So like we've said I think we can control it.
Then we are moving from a position where we used to have to move rigs long distances to hold leases and now we're going to drill on multi-well pads.
Again with these flex rigs they're much easier they -- we'll be able to have -- walking rigs that we have employed now we've not been able to use those efficiently.
So we're thinking that our costs are going to be still in a long lateral about $9.6 million and if you get some of those efficiencies even drop that lower.
We'll move to the line of David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just have a quick question on the Bakken.
Just wanted to -- not sure if I missed this but as you all have now evaluated the Almond area I guess letting that rig go is -- I guess to have like a seventh rig there is there any reason to assume that perhaps it would move into the Cherry area and so maybe just accelerate that program a little bit? Well what we did -- what we've doing is actually the well that drilled the Almond well we actually released that rig for duties for Denbury.
So we've completed that contract.
What we're doing there this comes to our efficiencies we're moving in one of these high flex 3 rigs and these flex 3 rigs move in much shorter time and they drill much faster.
The hydraulics are better.
The pumps are better.
The train -- the crews are well trained.
So we're just seeing our drilling time improve with these rigs.
So actually the rig count stayed the same because we picked up one of these flex rigs.
At the same time we dropped the rig that drilled on the Almond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess as you cut down on the drilling times using the flex rigs and you're completing more wells with the same amount of rigs is the price I guess for the incremental rig in the Bakken still in that $100 barrel range? No I have not done that calculation.
That's a new one on me.
I can't answer that question.
I'll have to go back and answer that.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just I missed the beginning of your call so I apologize.
But regarding Tinsley the issue that you described today regarding the improperly P&amp;A'd wells that's a different issue than you described during the second quarter.
Is that right? That's correct yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So can you just give us an update on the issue you described in the second quarter? I think it had to do with just the pressures related to injecting and producing and drilling producing wells.
Right.
What was mentioned in first quarter was that we delayed injection a bit at Tinsley per our previous plan so we can get wells drilled and the patents developed.
That work is done.
Our work is completed and so that comp in Q2 was just a reference to some previous assumptions made for how -- for the pace at which Tinsley would be developed in 2011.
That development has occurred.
So that issue I believe is resolved.
Yes just to clarify timing a bit when we announced that -- talked about that at the second quarter call in early August I did mentioned the P&amp;A problem briefly at the Barclays conference in early September.
So it really is a new problem per se in a sense that I think that the market already has known.
We've had problems with some P&amp;A wells.
What we're basically doing today is giving you more detail on that and telling you we see an end in sight but we have had to go and look at a lot of different wells and work over maybe a bit more than we even initially anticipated.
But that's really not a new issue per se since I mentioned it in September.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking with Tinsley my understanding is if I -- my look back at some old slides you did 3 or 4 years ago Tinsley seems to be outperforming your initial forecast by a pretty significant amount.
Is that correct? Tinsley's been doing very well.
Actually it's been -- I mean technically it's actually been pretty much on forecast but it's been performing very well.
If you look at the curve it's had steady growth since we started the flood.
So it's been a very good flood.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the second quarter call you also described an issue with conformance with Heidelberg.
Any update on that issue? Well the conformance work continues and I mentioned we were working on a number of wells.
That work seems to be going well.
We'll continue that work through the fourth quarter and so we just progress to -- I think we've mentioned we worked on 30 something wells this past -- what we mean to say working on that 30 wells by year end drill 3 wells and we are having success in redirecting CO2 into the other target horizons.
Seeing no additional questions at this time.
Okay well thank you everyone.
We're happy to have a good quarter.
I think we had very positive results good growth in reserves.
We're making good profit and so overall good quarter.
You might also even kind of do the computation of a proved NAV based on the new numbers that Bob gave you.
I think you'll find that it's at current prices which is in the low 90s or somewhere in the upper teens or approaching $20 a share on improving asset base on a PV-10 basis.
So with that just to remind you our next conference is of course we had referred to 3 or 4 times today but our Analyst Meeting on November 14 that will be in Houston.
We plan to tour Hastings Field that morning have a presentation in the afternoon.
That presentation will be webcast commencing at 2:00 p.m.
Central Time.
The slides for that Analyst Meeting will be on our website by that morning the morning of the 14th.
We then will follow that up with a presentation summary presentation or a shortened version in New York and Boston at the end of that same week and just to let you know I think this may be our last semi-annual analyst presentation.
I think we plan to go more toward the annual format in the future.
Our entire senior team will be at the Houston meeting and then Craig and I will do the New York and the Boston meetings.
So we look forward to seeing you again soon.
We'll have finished additional information on November 14.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mary and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Mr.
Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Mary.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter and year-end 2011 conference call.
With me today are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President of Production Operations; and Bob Cornelius our Senior Vice President of CO2 Operations.
In a moment I will turn the call over to Phil and the other members of our senior management team to discuss our results.
But before that let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's press release all of which are posted to our website at www.denbury.com.
In addition over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations and disclosures on these measures is provided in today's press release.
With that let me turn the call over to Phil.
Thanks Jack.
First of all let me just say welcome Jack to Denbury.
I think this is his first call but he's been with us for a couple of months.
We're happy to have him on board and he's heading up our Investor Relations.
So welcome aboard Jack.
I'm excited about the bottom line results as again this quarter we were at record levels.
This is the third consecutive quarter that we've set records in adjusted income and adjusted cash flow.
Adjusted net income was $175 million adjusted cash flow of $387 million and that's up 18% and 8% respectively from last quarter's records.
Of course these are non-GAAP measures so do take care and note the reconciling items which are mainly noncash and nonrecurring items.
Part of our positive results were due to our best-ever oil differentials with our net received oil price averaging $9.14 above NYMEX at nearly $2 better than last quarter and more than $13 a barrel higher than a year ago primarily driven by the expanding WTI-LLS differentials.
As you also probably know because I'm sure you watch the market the LLS differentials have been rather volatile contracting by more than half by the end of 2011 but then have begun to expand again recently.
Of course the Bakken differentials have also experienced some significant volatility.
Mark will talk a little bit more about this in his comments but suffice it to say we believe our exposure to LLS pricing will continue to benefit our overall oil price realization as we now have more than 70% of our crude sold on some basis other than WTI.
Our production growth this quarter was in line or exceeded expectations and the outlook is favorable.
Craig will talk a bit more about that.
Operating cost declined quarter-to-quarter and so all of this contributes to a bottom line that significantly beat first call expectations.
A few weeks ago we released our proved reserves and Craig will hit the high points but one number I always like to point out is that our proved PV-10 at year end was $10.6 billion.
If you subtract our net debt divide it into our expenditures you'll see our proved net asset value per share is in excess of $20 per share.
So what that means is if you buy the stock at today's price you effectively get the 800 million barrels of unbooked potential that we have associated with our future EOR floods and the Bakken development for free.
So while our stock has performed well in the last few months we believe it still remains a bargain on a 3P net asset value base.
On this call we'll give you many details about Q4 and brief in historical results and I think you'll like all these numbers but to me the more important thing is the takeaway from this call we are starting 2012 on a positive note with both Oyster Bayou and Hastings coming on a couple of weeks early with good initial production rates.
We've had good weather in North Dakota that translates into positive production trends in the Bakken.
So all that adds up to running a little ahead of schedule on our 2012 production goals.
Now while 1.5 months does not make a year is obviously we're very very happy to get off to a great start.
Further with the asset sales we have aimed to have completed and with oil prices currently running higher than initially forecasted our capital resources are looking strong and we are contemplating an increase to our 2012 capital budget.
If we do so I've mentioned this before one of the potential additions would be the retention of a fourth operated rig in the Bakken which would boost our 2012 production growth slightly.
Other potential capital budget increases would impact 2012 production or would be intended to get a head start on our 2013 EOR program.
We're going to discuss this more internally but -- before we make a final decision but initial indications are it's looking positive.
So with that introduction let's look more of the details and let's start with Mark's review of the numbers.
Thanks Phil.
As Phil mentioned we achieved record quarterly levels of adjusted net income and adjusted cash flows in the fourth quarter.
In my comments I'll provide further analysis of our quarterly results primarily focusing on the sequential change in results from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2011.
I would also provide some forward-looking information for your financial models.
As reported in our press release our adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $175 million or $0.45 per diluted share a new quarterly record.
This was up 18% from our prior record of $148 million or $0.37 per share in Q3.
Adjusted net income excludes an after-tax fair value hedging loss of $104 million primarily due to the increasing NYMEX oil prices $5 million after-tax for CO2 exploration expense and an after-tax loss of $14 million on asset impairment charges.
The asset impairment charges related to the Vanguard units we sold in January 2012 and the balance related to a potential CO2 project that we determined was uneconomic.
Our adjusted cash flow from operation which excludes working capital changes increased to $387 million for Q4 up from $358 million last quarter another new quarterly record.
Our total production for this quarter was 67 234 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 1% from the third quarter.
Our tertiary production averaged 31 144 barrels per day up slightly from Q3 tertiary production and our Bakken production averaged 11 743 BOE per day up 18% from Q3.
Craig and Bob will go into more detail on our production results in their comments but as stated in our press release we have left our production guidance unchanged.
Note however that our guidance includes approximately 1 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the non-core properties we expect to sell this quarter so production guidance will decrease accordingly when this occurs.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was around $103 per barrel up from about $97 per barrel in Q3.
As Phil mentioned our NYMEX WTI oil price differential continued its positive trend increasing to $9.14 per barrel above NYMEX this quarter as compared to a $7.25 per barrel premium in Q3.
For our tertiary oil production most of which is sold on LLS base indexes the average NYMEX price premium was $19.44 this quarter as compared to a $14.84 premium in Q3 with some of our tertiary production receiving premiums to NYMEX of nearly $25 for the quarter.
However the LLS to NYMEX premium contracted significantly in the second half of the fourth quarter ending the quarter at less than $10 above NYMEX but recently increasing to the mid-teens.
Differentials in our Rocky Mountain properties widened up in the fourth quarter with our Bakken production averaging an $8.42 discount to NYMEX as compared to a $5.62 discount to NYMEX in Q3.
Due to a combination of strong supply growth coupled with lower seasonal demand Bakken differentials have recently widened significantly.
As a result we expect to see oil prices for our Bakken production at significantly reduced levels in Q1 '12 potentially $18 to $20 below NYMEX.
We believe the Bakken differentials should return to levels in a low double digits as seasonal demand improves and new takeaway capacity comes online.
Based on the fluctuations we're seeing in our differentials we currently anticipate our overall corporate differential will be -- will return to more normal historical levels of a moderate discount to NYMEX in Q1 '12.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
We continue to execute a strategy of protecting our oil price downside while retaining upside through cost with collars.
We generally seek to protect the property at 75% to 85% of our anticipated oil production on a rolling quarterly basis looking at approximately 6 quarters.
Since our last call we have added it significantly to our 2013 hedge positions.
For 2013 we have now hedged a significant portion of our anticipated oil production for the first 3 quarters the collars that have a full price of $70 per barrel for Q1 and $75 per barrel for Q2 and Q3 and weighted average caps of around $110 per barrel for Q1 $117 per barrel for Q2 and $121 per barrel for Q3.
In the fourth quarter we paid approximately $1 million on our oil hedge settlements while we received about $8 million from our gas hedges.
It is important to note that we have 44 000 barrels per day hedged in the first quarter of 2012 with the ceiling price of between $100 and $105 which means that based on current price levels we would be exposed to some level of cash loss in our oil hedging contracts in Q1.
Before I begin my discussion of operating cost please note that in the fourth quarter we adjusted our presentation of certain taxes that have previously been included in various expense categories into a single category called Taxes Other Than Income.
A description of the reclassification is provided in today's press release and a summary of the reclassified quarterly numbers for 2011 is provided in the updated corporate presentation we've posted to our website this morning.
We believe our revised presentation is more consistent with industry standards and provides investors better clarity in our underlying operating performance.
All comparisons I give today are to the third quarter reclassified numbers.
Our lease operating expense per barrel of oil saw a decline by 7% from Q3 averaging $23.08 this quarter.
For our tertiary operations this number averaged $23.59 for the quarter down 5% from Q3.
Looking forward to 2012 we expect our total company LOE per BOE to be in the mid-to-low $20 -- $20 to $25 range per BOE with LOE per BOE starting out higher and decreasing throughout the year as production increases.
Our CO2 discovery and operating expenses increased about $8 million from Q3.
The driver here was about $7 million of CO2 exploration cost we incurred in Q4 which was below the $9 million to $12 million guidance we gave on last quarter's call.
As a reminder under accounting rules we are required to expense drilling cost as we incur them on CO2 exploration wells that don't have proved or probable reserves.
Drilling continued on the well in the first quarter and as a result we expect CO2 exploration cost of between $5 million and $10 million in Q1.
G&amp;A expenses were slightly higher from Q3 at about $28 million in Q4.
This category came in lower than the guidance we provided on last quarter's conference call due to lower employee bonuses and stock-based compensation expense and higher capitalized G&amp;A.
Stock-based compensation expense for the quarter was about $6 million.
For 2012 we expect our G&amp;A expense to be in the range of $35 million to $40 million per quarter but generally higher in the first quarter due to incremental payroll burdens associated with divesting of long-term incentives.
In the first quarter of 2011 our G&amp;A expense is around $42 million.
We anticipate the stock-based compensation expense to range between $7 million and $9 million per quarter in 2012.
Our overall DD&amp;A per BOE increased to $17.80 this quarter as compared to $16.59 in Q3.
The increase was primarily due to upward revisions and estimated future development costs for our proved undeveloped Bakken reserves.
We anticipate that our DD&amp;A per BOE will continue to increase moderately in the first part of 2012 but we do expect some offset in our overall rate from anticipated reserve bookings at Oyster Bayou and Hastings Field later in the year.
Our taxes other than income on a per BOE basis increased to $6.34 this quarter as compared to $5.88 in Q3 as higher oil prices drove our severance taxes higher.
Our severance tax rate as a percentage of our oil and natural gas revenue remained steady at approximately 5.5%.
This category will continue to fluctuate with commodity prices.
Our effective income tax rate for the quarter of 34% was less than our 38% statutory rate as differences between our 2010 provision and filed tax returns impacted the current quarter.
For 2012 we anticipate that our tax rate will be between 38% and 39% slightly higher than our statutory rate with current taxes representing about 25% to 30% of our total taxes.
For Q1 '12 we estimate that current taxes will be significantly higher due to the sale of our Vanguard units which had no tax basis and the expected sale of oil and gas properties.
These sales are estimated to provide approximately $240 million of proceeds and we project current taxes related to these sales could approximate $40 million.
As a result we estimate that current taxes could be as high as 70% to 80% of our total taxes in Q1.
Moving on to our capital structure.
Average debt outstanding was $2.6 billion as compared to $2.4 billion in Q3 with increase due primarily to higher bank debt associated with share repurchases.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest decreased sequentially to $35.7 million from $37.6 million last quarter.
Higher capitalized interest more than offset the increased interest paid in our credit facility.
Capitalized interest was $19.6 million as compared to $17.9 million in Q3.
We currently expect our capitalized interest to be between $12 million and $18 million per quarter in 2012.
We had $385 million outstanding on our $1.6 billion bank facility at the end of the quarter up from $110 million at the end of Q3.
As of the end of January our bank borrowings were $500 million and net borrowings were $315 million after considering our cash on hand.
Our capitalization metrics continue to be very strong with our debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 36% and our debt to Q4 annualized adjusted cash flow and EBITDA at 1.7x and 1.6x respectively.
During the fourth quarter we spent $195 million to repurchase approximately 14 million shares of our common stock or 3.5% on those shares outstanding at September 30 2011 at an average price of less than $14 per share.
While we are authorized to purchase up the $500 million under this program we have not purchased any stock since year end.
We will continue to look for opportunities to purchase our stock if it trades at a meaningful discount to our proved net asset value.
For 2012 our capital budget remains at $1.35 billion which excludes estimated expenditures for capitalized interest in tertiary start-up costs and assumes approximately $75 million in estimated expenditures financed with sale-leaseback transactions.
We presented our expected sources and uses of capital for 2012 at our Analyst Meeting last November.
There are basically 4 components to this analysis: cash flow from operations asset sales capital expenditures and stock repurchases.
Although we have seen our positive oil differentials contract from when we put the analysis together with oil prices above $100 and with a good start to our 2012 production our cash flow is starting out ahead of forecast.
We expect to have sold assets of nearly $240 million by the end of February already ahead of our midpoint with one more small property sale expected later this year.
Our stock repurchases have slowed down as discussed above which potentially leaves us with more capital available.
In light of this we are reviewing the possibility of increasing our 2012 capital program.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
I'm going to provide an overview of our production operations from the last quarter and I'll start with our tertiary operations.
Tertiary production averaged 31 144 barrels of oil per day during the fourth quarter which is essentially flat compared to tertiary production in the third quarter of 2011.
I'm going to highlight several key fields that had material production impact or that reached key milestones.
And we'll start with Heidelberg.
Heidelberg tertiary production increased by approximately 590 barrels of oil per day compared to the third quarter and most of that increase came from new patterns in the East Heidelberg area.
We conducted extensive conformance work in the West Heidelberg Field during the third and fourth quarters to the redirect CO2 into zones previously not injected into.
We're very pleased with the results and production has now stabilized at West Heidelberg.
We continue to monitor this field closely with regular surveys of our injection and our producing wells.
Moving to Tinsley.
Tinsley saw a production decline by approximately 740 barrels per day compared to the third quarter and this is much as we had expected.
This is much as we had expected.
This decline was due to the reduction of CO2 injection and reducing the pressure in parts of the field to address the old wells that were improperly plugged and abandoned by prior operators.
Just a reminder of what happened in the third quarter.
As we were expanding the CO2 flood into new patterns in the southeastern portion of Tinsley Field we found that multiple old wells many dating back to the '40s and '50s had been improperly plugged and abandoned by prior operators.
These old wells which have been reported as having been plugged and abandoned by the previous operators did not have sufficient cement in the old well bores.
Without the cement plugs in place we are unable to confine the CO2 injection into the specific target zone.
As a result we had to stop injecting CO2 in the several patterns reduced the reservoir pressure and work over 29 wells to properly plug them.
Our current status is we have resumed CO2 injection in all of the impacted areas and we're finishing up the last 2 wells.
We're pleased to say that reservoir pressure is building and production has turned the corner and already begun to increase.
Delhi Field.
Delhi Field continues to enjoy a nice production increase for the reservoir response to CO2 injection and we put more wells online.
Production increased by 420 barrels per day compared to the third quarter.
We continue to be very pleased with Delhi's response and expansion of the field continues.
At Oyster Bayou we reached the significant milestone on December 14 2011 when the field started production and this represents us being 2 weeks ahead of schedule.
We're encouraged with the early reservoir response and we anticipate additional production as the well is dewatered.
Adding to a significant milestone is the Hastings Field.
Hastings Field started production on January 13 2012 which is also a few weeks ahead of schedule.
So while the Hastings Field did not have an impact on our fourth quarter 2011 results it's a very important part of our future.
Currently at Hastings we're producing from 10 wells and we anticipate opening up more wells in the second quarter.
Hastings is also starting off very well.
The start of the Hastings and Oyster Bayou fields culminates 5 years of planning and development which includes the construction of a 325-mile pipeline to transport and inject CO2 from our natural source near Jackson Mississippi.
We expect to book proved reserves in both of these fields in 2012 with Oyster Bayou likely in the first half of the year and Hastings in the second half.
Moving on to lease operating expense.
Our operating cost for our tertiary properties averaged $23.59 per barrel in the fourth quarter which is a 5% reduction compared to $24.91 per barrel in the prior quarter.
We reduced our tertiary operating cost by approximately $4 million from the third quarter.
This decrease is primarily driven by lower workover cost and a reduction in certain annual maintenance expenses which occurred in the third quarter.
Non-tertiary operating cost were down by $1.80 per BOE compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Our total company lease operating cost on a unit basis for the fourth quarter was $20.08 per barrel.
With that let's talk just a bit about our 2012 production forecast.
Our outlook for the full year 2012 production is unchanged from the guidance provided at our Fall Analyst Meeting.
However as we announced in mid-January we have agreed to sell certain non-core properties in Mississippi and Louisiana for $155 million.
Our guidance included 1 400 barrels a day from these fields that will be sold.
We're off to a very good start in 2012 with Oyster Bayou and Hastings online.
Oil production from both fields is currently exceeding our expectations.
We look forward to production increasing through the year as these new fields join the continuing development of Delhi Tinsley and Heidelberg fields in drilling our tertiary production.
Bob is going to talk about our strong Bakken performance in his comments in just a moment.
Moving on to our year-end reserves.
As we announced on February 6 our year-end 2011 proved oil and gas reserves were 462 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our reserves increased by approximately 64 million barrels compared to the previous year and that represents a 367% replacement of 2011 production.
Reserve growth was driven by Bakken drilling activity and our Riley Ridge acquisition.
Our reserves in production are very heavily weighted towards oil.
77% of our reserves attributed to oil.
Looking forward to 2012 we anticipate reserve additions from the new fields Oyster Bayou Hastings and from the continuing Bakken drilling program.
With that I'll turn it over to Bob.
Thank you Craig.
In my comments I'll cover our fourth quarter Bakken activity the Riley Ridge facility and then report on the major pipelines and CO2 supply projects.
Improved completion activity in the Bakken continued during the fourth quarter as we were able to complete 10 wells during the period.
The completion activity resulted in improved production rates additional proved reserves during the fourth quarter and in our Bakken production.
Our Bakken team continues to introduce improvements to the drilling and completion process as well as overall well operation.
In fact Bakken production rates increased 18% over the third quarter rates averaging 11 743 BOEs per day during the fourth quarter.
A full summary of our recent Bakken well results including the IPs along with 30- 60- and 90-day average rates are available on our corporate presentation posted to the Investor Relations section on our website.
I think one important point to note in this detail is that many of our wells completed during the fourth quarter had 60- and 90-day production averages that were greater or better than the initial 30-day averages.
Now this indicates that our wells have good sustaining production rates and also illustrates that sometimes we are not able to produce a well with the maximum initial flow rates often due to stock tank shortage or transportation capacity constraints.
This also demonstrates the drawback of putting undue emphasis on the initial published short-term production rates.
We currently have 5 operated rigs in the Bakken and we plan to reduce this rig count to 4 when 1 of the rigs we have is allowed to expire or when its drilling contract expires.
We are on track to have all significant lease hold positions held by production during the second quarter.
Once leases are held we will be able to shift on multi-well or pad drilling.
We'll be able to better utilize our walking rigs in this field.
Our walking rig inventory includes 3 efficient flex drilling rigs.
With these new drilling rigs in the multi-well drilling pads our goal is to continue to shave off the number of days it takes to drill a well and then make rig moves.
We recently drilled in quarter 3 Three Forks zones.
There was 2 in the Cherry and 1 in Murphy Creek.
We have not completed the wells but initial evaluation of the cores indicates positive results.
Our plans are to drill approximately 17 Three Forks wells during 2012.
Moving to Riley Ridge and LaBarge Field located in Sublette County Wyoming.
Strategically Riley Ridge unit will provide us with approximately 417 net Bcf natural gas 12 Bcf of helium and probably more importantly approximately 2.2 Tcf of CO2 that's to our interest.
There's an additional helium methane and CO2 potential in the adjoining acreage as we also have a working interest in those acres.
Our operating team is completing construction and regaining the commissioning of the various plant systems.
The producing wells that will feed this plant -- have been completed and the product sales and pipelines have also been commissioned.
The process of natural gas and helium from Riley Ridge Field is expected to begin in the middle of the second quarter of 2012.
This is a little later than we initially expected due to modest delays and final completion of the plant.
With the construction of an additional processing facility to separate the CO2 from the remaining gas stream and the construction of a CO2 pipeline to our EOR field is expected to be completed approximately 5 years.
For the most part much of this expense is processed in the CO2 will carry the sale -- the processing of CO2 will be carried by the sale of helium and methane.
A quick update of the Greencore pipeline our first CO2 pipeline in the Rocky Mountains.
The pipeline -- this pipeline will connect ConocoPhillips' operated Lost Cabin facility to our Bell Creek Field that's approximately 150 miles in a 20-inch diameter 232 mile Greencore Pipeline was completed during the fourth quarter of this year.
2012 construction activity to resume during August after wildlife stipulations are lifted.
This final segment should be completely commissioned by December of this year.
Compression and meter equipment at the Lost Cabin facilities are also in order and should be ready for operations at year end.
Now moving south to Jackson Dome area where our CO2 production rates averaged over 1 Bcf per day during the quarter.
During the fourth quarter we had 2 drilling rigs working in the Jackson Dome area 1 rig is drilling a development well in the Gluckstadt Field.
This well will be completed some time during the second quarter of 2012 and that will allow us to the increase our CO2 production rates to our EOR fields.
The second well is an exploratory well on a separate geological structure.
Drilling operations are completed and it appears that the well is not productive.
This well was testing a portion of reserves we categories -- categorized as possible reserves at our Jackson Dome area.
Our future plans in the Jackson Dome area are to continue to drill the many development opportunities in the area.
Our geological team has identified 18 different drilling opportunities in Jackson Dome area.
These locations will be hydrated and drilled to maintain our CO2 production rate above 1 Bcf a day.
We still believe there are several -- we still have several Tcfs of unproved potential with Jackson Dome which could find us CO2 for future oilfield acquisitions.
We also continue to pursue various man-made CO2 operations in our Gulf Coast properties.
Our extensive CO2 flooding activity and the pipeline infrastructure in the region provide us a meaningful strategic advantage to capture man-made CO2.
Mississippi Power plant in Kemper County is on schedule to be completed during 2014 and it should deliver approximately 115 million cubic feet a day or more of CO2 to Southeast Mississippi.
Air products Port Arthur gasifier is expected to be online about a year from now the first quarter of 2013 and will provide approximately 15 million cubic feet to our Hastings Field.
Also we've seen with the improved economic conditions and a healthier capital markets and the EPA recognizing CO2 EOR as the potential solution to carbon sequestration.
We have seen an uptick in a number of discussions we are having with potential CO2 purchasers on how we might help them take their CO2 into our pipeline systems.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Okay.
Thank you Bob.
Mary that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Hsulin.
So my questions are regarding Oyster Bayou.
I was wondering can you give more color on the specific production rates? And I know you mentioned it's exceeding your expectation and also how you expect that to trend in 2012? Well we've avoided as you can see in all of our conferences about giving specific rate other than to say we're enthused about the results and we're trending ahead of forecast.
As to expectations you can kind of extrapolate based on the chart that we have in our presentation that shows where Oyster Bayou is expected to go.
We expect it to peak something less than 5 000 and peak in 12 to 18 months.
So you can kind of extrapolate from that what we expect in 2012.
But we started the -- production started about 2 weeks early and is running a little bit ahead of forecast.
So we are hesitant to give out numbers because we just don't think that 45 days into the year necessarily denotes a trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's fair.
So are you anticipating to give us more details at a later date like maybe second quarter or a separate press release? We'll give you some update definitely at the first quarter earnings which is in what early May.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And also just on your 2012 production guidance is it -- given the early production success is it fair for us to think about the production guidance being in the upper half of the guidance or is that too early to say? Well I guess yes if we can take this 45 days and duplicate it to the rest of the year since we're a little bit ahead of forecast that would kind of assume midpoint.
So yes today we're above midpoint.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the LLS premium worked out nicely.
Can you go through some of the numbers? I missed them.
How much of your production rate now are you selling in the LLS? And are you capable of locking in some of that premium when you can or is it basically just front month sort of pricing contracting that you're doing? I believe it's around 45% now is sold on LLS.
There's about another 25% that's sold on other indexes different from WTI generally better than WTI and that's why we kind of said that 70% or so was something on the non-WTI basis.
So we've gradually -- we improved that just a little bit from what -- from the numbers we used to give.
To the second part of your question I mean yes you can lock in spreads.
We haven't historically because we've always thought they were a little conservative but the thing keeps moving around quite a bit.
So I don't know.
I guess that's always an option.
We've always been doing our hedges just on WTI.
We will see.
LLS is back out what 15 to 20 again so we'll see what happens.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that -- into that first question so that 70% it's 45% to LLS and 25% to others.
And then is that like Maya [ph] and other stuff like that? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the next question is on the Bakken rig count.
So right now you're at 5 you're going to drop down to 4 and then I guess that goes down to 3 as well.
And then you're going to have to put 3 walking rigs and you could add a fourth.
Is that -- am I understanding the progression on that one potentially correctly there? Yes.
I mean the numbers that are in the budget assumes that we go to 3 by midyear.
What we're kind of saying is if the trend looks positive for our capital resources so it's probably more likely than not that we keep that fourth rig even under 4.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And it seems like you've kind of now are committed to the Bakken.
I mean early on I guess when you acquired that asset it kind of seemed like it was a little bit not unsure of kind of what the long-term plan on that asset was.
But at this point in time is this definitely something you intend to sort of keep and further develop or it still an option always to potentially trade it or do something else? I knew somebody would ask that question.
I don't think the answer has changed.
We've always felt like we want to maximize the value of this asset and that's what we're doing and we're getting good results and rates are improving reserves are up and so forth.
But it's -- it always is an option depending on future needs or what deals come up that we could use it to help pay for something else.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And my last question.
So Oyster Bayou and Hastings you have opportunity to book some reserves in 2012.
How is that going to look? I mean typically -- I mean how much do you expect in that first year when you get some production of that could you get on is it like half of it or more? Well the guidance we usually give if you kind of follow our history the independent engineers usually give us somewhere around 75% of our 3P number when we initially book reserves.
So the numbers we show on our slide show represents the 3P.
So I guess if I were to forecast I'd say you probably ought to take about 75%.
I'd probably take the low end of the range just because Hastings actually has a range.
Actually both of them do.
And that would probably give you a rough idea of what we think we might book in 2012.
I think if you add it up it's probably somewhere between 50 million to maybe 60 million or 65 million barrels is kind of the range but that's kind of how we get there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so you don't need to get that up to closer to the -- or ramp up by the end of the year in all the -- in both Hastings and Oyster to get that 75%.
It just demonstrates it's ramping on schedule is that kind of how that goes? Yes you kind of need to show -- well you have to show a production response to the CO2.
And the way we've kind of defined that is to response better than maybe what it was producing before.
And Oyster Bayou of course came on first so we think that one will get booked first.
Hastings will probably one it's a bigger number; and two it's probably going to ramp up a little bit slower so we're -- it's probably the second half of '12 before that one gets booked.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Robertson from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Phil if you will maintain a fourth rig in the Bakken would that be a FlexRig or will you -- or will it be a regular rig? This is Bob Cornelius.
It will be a regular rig but the one we have is a walking rig.
So we would be able to use the multiple pads and do that so it will be an efficient rig.
Research Division</strong> And then just secondly in terms of capital priorities if you do decide to increase the budget at some point this year is it most likely that those dollars would go to the Bakken? Or is there anything you all could do in any of the EOR projects to either accelerate patterns in existing fields or pull any of the other floods forward? Well certainly the Bakken is -- and certainly the capital but -- this is Craig by the way.
And we do have several fields that we could accelerate our 20 -- 13 probably into 2012.
So it's been specifically Hastings Delhi and Tinsley.
So we have all good investments there that we could accelerate.
It would not have a significant -- or would not have an impact on 2012 production but it would give us a head start for 2013 production in tertiary side.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to probe a little more on the potential for the reserve bookings at Delhi and Oyster Bayou.
If you -- when you put that in how much I guess or probably would that be on the PDP side or would that all be on PUDs? High percentage would be PUDs.
I mean the only PDP would be the wells that are currently producing and the curve associated with that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I heard it right it was -- you have 10 wells in Hastings right now.
What was the well count in Oyster Bayou? We have 19 producers currently.
We're going to drill 8 more for this year and that will be fully developed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Great.
And then I'm thinking about I guess ways to accelerate -- you probably -- you have $10.6 billion of PV-10 only a little over $2.5 billion of debt.
You probably have room to expand that credit facility.
But I imagine you'll be waiting to see kind of what the -- or I guess what were you looking for in the next few months that would give you an indication whether you could or would decide to increase your borrowing base? I don't know that we need to increase our borrowing base.
I mean the issue is we don't really think we need it.
Yes you're correct.
I mean Mark can maybe give you more color but I know we could handle a much bigger borrowing base than we have.
I don't know what the precise number is but what we just haven't needed it and funny thing bankers want fees when you increase it.
So we haven't felt the need to pay for that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
Well I'll worry about that another day I guess.
But the last question I have then was on the -- with air products you said -- if I heard it right coming on first quarter of 2013 adding some CO2 for Hastings.
Should we be thinking about any compatibility issues between the I guess Jacksonville and CO2 making its way down to Houston versus the man-made CO2 kind of mix in the reservoir? No.
I mean the CO2 the compound CO2 what we do -- we have fairly tight standards on what enters the pipeline.
So any of the small impurities are in the parts per million capacity so there's no discussion of compatibility.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick question and I think you may have answered it a bit Phil but on those Bakken rigs the 3 that you'll keep and maybe the fourth those are able to drill on pads currently.
You won't have to switch those out? Correct.
Yes sir.
We have 3 of the FlexRigs and really they are skid type but they can move on the pad.
And then we have a Patterson rig which we employed for -- since we've owned it from Encore and that is a walking rig.
And so what we're trying to do is as we get -- all of our acreage will be held after April May significant acreage and then what we'll do is we'll start to optimize our drilling program to A to a better well and B use a skid pad to reduce our cost and especially the moving cost related to the Bakken.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other thing the stock repurchase looks pretty smart now obviously considerably below where the shares are today.
Are you pretty comfortable just letting that be for now? Or are you're still being opportunistic as far as maybe going back and buying some shares? Well I think as Mark reported we haven't purchased any in 2012.
That particular stock is trading at least near proved NAV which is still a bargain as I pointed out.
But what we've kind of said is we'll just be opportunistic.
We actually have authority to spend up to $500 million we've spent just around $200 million.
But we've kind of used our threshold that it kind of trades kind of significant.
A proved NAV is kind of the threshold or the trigger.
So we're there if something happens but today we're not purchasing any.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Guffey from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about exploratory plans for wells in Jackson Dome over this year and next year? Well first thing we're going to do is that we drilled the well which was not productive so we're evaluating that.
Even though that one location wasn't productive it doesn't mean there's not a lot of other opportunities in the area for additional drilling of exploratory well.
With that -- so that aside we do have 18 additional wells in the Norfolk sand that we have identified as development-type wells and so we have those wells that we will incorporate into our plan which we already incorporated in plan.
But we'll look at those to ensure that we have at least 1 Bcf of gas every day.
There's some also zones some intervals above the Norfolk sand which is our primary producing sand that smack over that we think it has a quite a few reserves.
It does have some impurities in it.
It's not as pure as the North Lake but definitely can be -- the gas can be -- the CO2 can be cleaned up and added to our proved developed reserves.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And kind of switching gears over to the Bakken.
You guys mentioned you cored 2 wells in the Three Forks and the Cherry area.
Just wonder if you can kind of talk about your expectations for reservoir kind of contrast to the reservoir quality with the Bakken and then kind of give an estimate for EOR in that area.
Okay.
Well actually we drilled 3.
We drilled and cored 3 wells 2 of them are in Cherry area and 1 was in the Murphy Creek area.
But we -- seriously we just got those things out about 2 weeks ago.
So they're at the lab getting thin slice and all that things you do to core to the analysis so we really don't have it.
I mean to say there are geologists and the folks on the rig were very pleased with what they saw from those and we feel like -- we said we have approximately half of our wells were going to be Three Forks wells during -- in 2012 drilling period.
We just haven't done -- we've been trying to hold acreage so we've been drilling kind of slam dunk stuff and drilling Bakken wells.
And we really haven't tested the Three Forks in most of our areas.
So that's really something that will get more emphasis in 2012.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess once you hold all the acreage and start drilling off the pads how much do you expect to save from completed well costs? Well I think just on move alone it depends on what the weather is obviously up there if it's snow and ice versus -- and you have some load issues sometimes during the melt breakup but we're looking anywhere between $300 000 to $400 000 per well just on the move just by using a walking or skid rigs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys have 5 rigs now and you mentioned you're going to 3 or maybe 4 by midyear.
Where are they at? Where are your rigs at currently and then where do you plan on having them for the rest of the remainder of the year focusing I mean obviously on Cherry and Murphy Creek but are you going to kind of step out and go into Bear Creek or Camp? The answer is right now they're in Cherry area mostly.
We do have 1 in Murphy Creek.
Our plans are to go out and like I said first of all hold all the significant acreage.
And then once that gets done we're going to slide those rigs around and use it in the most efficient place we can.
So we're going probably going to drill those places that we can see Three Forks potential and increase our production increase our reserves.
So as far some of the outlying areas that we don't see as being as productive we may drill some wells out there but not many.
Our next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a few things.
I just missed my timing earlier on cost.
What is the DD&amp;A expectation for 2012? Well we ended the fourth quarter just below $18 and we project that that will kind gradually increase here in the first part of the year.
We do expect to see some offset to that increase later in the year as we book proved reserves at Hastings and Oyster Bayou.
But I would expect some moderate increase here in the first half of the year at least.
Research Division</strong> And I guess going back to Jackson Dome for a minute.
You're talking about -- or Bob was talking about how even though the particular prospect you drilled didn't work out that it was still possible there are other things you could do on that same structure.
Could you just talk a little bit more about your evaluation process from here on? I don't know if you're able to go back and look at the seismic and make adjustments based on that that can give you more clarity going forward.
So we could -- yes again we can address that.
And you hit it right on nail on the head Noel.
What happens is when you look at an exploration project and we use 3D seismic you get a seismic signature and seismic looks a certain way.
And once you get the well drilled you can then look at the velocity of the rock how quickly the sound travels through the rock and compare it to the seismic and you can know ultimately what the seismic signature look like compared to what the actual reservoir or the rock look like in the formation.
So with that information we realized why the well was tight.
It didn't have a lot of permeability.
So now we think we know what happened so we're going to go back and reevaluate the 3D seismic take the information we've learned and go back and look at what other prospects might be out there.
But I want to tell everyone too that we drill this well but we did not put this well or anticipate this well for producing for a couple of years because of the location of the well pipeline had to be laid.
Because of the location of the well it had to be dehydrated and processed.
So really our expansion is still in our development program is where our expansion was in Jackson Dome for the next 2 or 3 years.
We would probably have been a little conservative in what we've shown as probable and possible there.
And as Bob said we have like 18 wells we could drill.
Some of which have actually had a well drilled in that area before but we still don't call it as proved.
So some of it's very very low risk and we're still kind of with the result of this well we're looking at everything we can and coming up with kind of a schedule of what we do.
But we just feel like there's a lot of potential still there and probably our outlook of proved or probable and possible probably really hadn't changed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And looking ahead to the man-made CO2 plants Mississippi Power and air products can you just refresh my memory? We've been talking about those being underway for so long.
As far as the expense for the pipeline connection from the plant to Denbury's existing system is that cost borne by the project or is that part of what Denbury commits to in getting the rights of the CO2? They vary.
We do -- I don't want to get into our contracts Noel confidentiality reasons.
But they vary.
If the processor pays for the compression in the pipe then obviously we have to pay a little bit more for the CO2.
If Denbury captures and pays for the compression in the pipe then we pay less.
That's -- I don't want to get into the contracts but that's how we structure it.
[Operator Instructions] Okay Mary.
It sounds like there aren't any more questions.
So if it's okay we'll conclude here.
I want to thank everybody for their attendance and participation.
Just looking forward to let you know that Mark will be presenting at the JPMorgan High Yield Conference in Miami next week.
So be aware of that.
And then we have the IPAA conference coming up in New York the middle of April.
I'll be presenting on April 16 and then I think we're going to do -- spend 2 or 3 days on the East Coast and try to meet with several investors during that week.
So if you'd like to set up a meeting with us please contact Jack.
And then looking forward to the first quarter results.
We plan to report that on Thursday May 3.
So we look forward to keeping you updated on the progress.
Thank you for your attendance today.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay today after 12:30 p.m.
Central Time through March 23 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 220093.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to your conference call today the first quarter 2012 earnings release.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Your hosting speaker Executive Director of Investor Relations Jack Collins.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on Denbury's First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
With me today on the call are Phil Rykhoek our President and CEO; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and CFO; Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President of Production Operations; and Bob Cornelius our Senior Vice President of CO2 Operations.
In a moment I'll turn the call over to Phil and the other members of senior management to discuss our first quarter results and discuss our outlook.
But before that let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's press release all of which are posted to our website www.denbury.com.
In addition I'll remind you that over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations and disclosures on these measures is provided in today's press release.
With that let me turn the call over to Phil.
Thanks Jack.
As you can see from our first quarter we're starting off the year on a positive note.
But before I get into the quarterly results let me briefly talk about the acquisition we announced a couple of days ago.
Tuesday we announced we agreed to acquire Thompson Field for $360 million plus a production payment.
This is a significant strategic acquisition for us and exactly the type of deal that we want to do for the following reasons.
First and foremost Thompson Field is desirable because it's a large field located only 18 miles from the termination of our Green Pipeline meaning that there will be minimal additional required pipeline infrastructure to plug this field.
It's a field technically similar to Hastings meaning that what we learned at Hastings we'll easily transfer over.
It's a large field with an estimated 650 million barrels of oil in place and it is one of our top 10 desired fields in the Gulf Coast area.
As our review has been rather limited thus far we've not yet determined how much of the field will be floodable but we are comfortable saying we can target at least 300 million barrels of original oil in place.
That would translate into an EOR target of 30 million to 60 million barrels or expressed in other way it's an estimated recovery approximate equal to Tinsley Field.
While significant I believe that with further review we will add additional floodable areas at Thompson and the projected EOR recoveries should increase.
Although initial EOR production is a few years away this will fit in nicely with our Gulf Coast program extending our peak EOR production from that area.
In addition to the EOR potential the acquisition adds a little immediate conventional production in cash flow adding about 2 200 barrels a day or about the same production that we saw earlier this year.
The field has several conventional projects -- development projects that we can do with attractive rates of return.
And that should allow us to minimize the conventional production decline.
We are fortunate in the timing of this acquisition as we anticipate receiving like-kind exchange treatment which will save us about $30 million in current taxes creating additional value for our shareholders.
We expect the transition to close in early June and currently estimate first tertiary production around 2017.
The timing reflects the need to unitize the field construct an 18-mile extension of our CO2 pipeline from Hastings and manage and properly allocate our CO2 supply and transportation.
We'll be able to give you more details on this once we have a little more time to study it create an EOR model and development plan.
But bottom line we're enthused we're able to pick up another significant Gulf Coast oilfield and add to our extensive inventory of the EOR projects.
Briefly on the first quarter.
We reported a first quarter adjusted net income of $161 million $0.41 per diluted share and adjusted cash flow of $352 million.
Both of these are slightly less than our last quarter's record-setting levels but still very strong up 55% and 30% respectively from the year ago.
Of course as Jack mentioned these are non-GAAP measures.
And see our press release and other documents for the reconciling items.
As we announced in our operational update in mid-April production in oil prices started 2012 on a positive note.
As you can see in today's release our costs were in line with expectations.
All of this resulted in a net bottom line that is slightly ahead of Street estimate.
Our production as previously announced is doing well and we expect to remain in the upper half of our production guidance for 2012.
Mark will give you more details but we decided not to change our overall 2012 production guidance at this time although we did reallocate a little bit.
Increase in the Bakken number low and in the Riley Ridge forecast which is all positive because that's shifting from gas to oil.
Since our operations are starting up well as evidenced by our favorable production costs have remained on target.
And a promising oil price outlook we've increased our 2012 capital budget by $150 million to $1.5 billion.
We're adding about $80 million to our Bakken a portion of which will fund the fourth rig and a portion of which will cover higher than initially anticipated cost.
The balance will be used to get a headstart on our planned 2013 expenditures on tertiary floods and CO2 sources.
If oil prices hold these additional expenditures should be funded with operating cash flow.
One of the important thing I'd like to point out in today's release is that we booked approximately 18 million barrels of oil equivalent proved reserves including 14 million barrels at Oyster Bayou Field based on this positive response to CO2 injections.
Highlighting this value that added to the shareholders we estimate the PV-10 Value of Oyster Bayou reserves at quarter end were about $510 million or about a 5% increase to our year-end 2011 PV-10 of $10.6 billion.
If you look at this on a per share basis this field added about $1.30 per share to our proved net asset value a significant addition.
Hastings Field continues to respond well to our CO2 flooding and we expect to booked proved reserves there during the second half of the year.
2012 continues to shape up as a great year for Denbury we expect our proved net asset value to grow significantly as a result.
So with that introduction let's take a look at more of the details.
And we'll start with Mark's review of the numbers.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
In my comments I'll provide further analysis of our quarterly results primarily focusing on the sequential change and results from the fourth quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012.
I will also provide some forward-looking information for your financial models.
As reported in our press release our adjusted net income for the first quarter was $161 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
This was down from our record adjusted net income of $175 million in the fourth quarter primarily due to higher lease operating costs G&amp;A expense and higher DD&amp;A expense which I will discuss in more detail.
Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes certain items typically excluded by the investment community and published estimates as they are unusual and nonrecurring in nature which for this quarter included the following items on an after-tax basis: a noncash fair value hedging loss of $27 million; impairment charges of $9 million related to our investment in the Faustina gasification project and $1 million its CO2 property; $3 million for CO2 exploration expense for the unsuccessful well we announced earlier this year; $2 million for charges related to anticipated nonperformance on helium deliveries due to delays in the startup of Riley Ridge; $2 million associated with an allowance for loans that we inherited in the Encore acquisition that are tied to future well revenues; and a $1 million loss associated with the sale of our Vanguard units in Q1.
I'll provide more color around some of these items later in my comments.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $352 million for Q1 down from $387 million last quarter with the difference primarily due to higher operating costs and higher current taxes in the current quarter.
Our total production for this quarter was about 71 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 6% sequentially from Q4.
If you exclude the property sales we have executed in 2012 our adjusted first quarter production was roughly 69 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Craig will go into more detail on our production results but we are pleased that our tertiary and Bakken production are off to a great start.
As stated in our press release we have kept our 2012 production estimates unchanged at the range of 68 625 BOE per day to 73 625 BOE per day.
But we have bumped our Bakken estimated range by approximately 1 600 BOE per day and lowered our Rockies production estimate by the same amount to reflect the better-than-expected Bakken results offset by delays in the startup of our Riley Ridge natural gas processing facility.
At this point our guidance does not include the contribution from Thompson Field.
Daily net production from this field is currently estimated at approximately 2 200 barrels per day which is about the same as the assets we sold earlier this year.
We will formally adjust our production estimates for the anticipated contribution with this field closer to the time the transaction closes.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was $102.52 per barrel down slightly from $103.08 per barrel in Q4.
Our average realized oil price relative to the average NYMEX oil price which we refer to as our NYMEX differential contracted significantly from Q4 moving to a $0.37 per barrel discount to NYMEX in Q1 as compared to a $9.14 per barrel premium in Q4.
For our tertiary oil production most of which is sold on LLS-based indexes the average NYMEX price premium was $9.80 this quarter as compared to a $19.44 premium in Q4 with some of our tertiary production receiving premiums to NYMEX north of $12 for this quarter.
The LLS to NYMEX premium continues to be volatile in 2012 with the LLS premium rebounding to about $20 in early April then declining into the mid- to upper-teens currently.
Differentials in our Rocky Mountain properties widened out in the first quarter with our Bakken production averaging a $16.96 discount to NYMEX as compared to an $8.42 discount to NYMEX in Q4.
Bakken differentials have recently narrowed to a more historical range and we currently see them remaining constant or improving in the near term.
Based on the fluctuations we are seeing in our NYMEX differentials we currently anticipate that our overall corporate differential should improve slightly in Q2 from Q1 levels.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
We continue to execute a strategy of protecting our oil price downside while retaining upside through costless collars which sell based on NYMEX oil prices.
Since our last call we have added to our hedge positions for the second half of 2013.
Full details of our hedged positions are now -- are shown in our corporate presentation available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
In the first quarter we paid approximately $8 million on our oil hedge settlements while we received about $7 million from our gas hedges.
Our lowest ceiling price increases to $110 in the second quarter of 2012.
And based on current NYMEX Strip prices we currently do not anticipate significant oil hedge cash payments in Q2 over the remainder of 2012.
Our lease operating expense per barrel of oil equivalent increased by 6% from Q4 averaging $29.19 this quarter.
For our tertiary operations this number averaged $26.74 for the quarter.
Craig will discuss more on our lease operating expense in a few minutes.
For 2012 we expect our total company LOE per BOE to be in the $20 to $25 range going forward.
We expensed $3.1 million after-tax in CO2 discovery or exploration cost in Q1 related to 2012  cost for the CO2 exploration well we announced earlier this year.
As a reminder under accounting rules we are required to expense drilling costs as we incur them on CO2 exploration wells that don't have proved or probable reserves.
In the quarter we also incurred a $9.4 million after-tax impairment charge for our investment in the Faustina gasification plant a potential source of anthropogenic CO2 in the Gulf Coast when a key investor and participant in the project indicated they were abandoning it.
The Faustina plant was previously listed in our potential anthropogenic CO2 sources but the potential CO2 from the facility is not necessary to develop our current CO2 projects in the Gulf Coast.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $37 million which was higher than $28 million in Q4.
If you recall our employee bonus payouts and incentive compensation were paid out at significantly lower percentages last year.
And in 2012 we have increased our accrual for such items at a higher level.
Also Q1 tends to have higher professional fees and additional payroll burdens related to bonus payouts investing of long-term incentives.
For the remainder of 2012 we expect our G&amp;A expense to be between $35 million and $40 million for the quarter and approximately $8 million to $10 million of that expense will be stock-based compensation.
Our overall DD&amp;A rate per BOE increased to $18.57 this quarter as compared to $17.80 in Q4.
The increase was principally driven by higher Bakken well costs reflected in our future development costs and incremental depreciation on our CO2 and other fixed assets due to incremental pipeline depreciation.
We expect this rate to increase moderately throughout 2012.
Our taxes other income on a per BOE basis increased to $6.71 this quarter as compared to $6.34 in Q4 as higher production and ad valorem taxes pushed this amount higher.
As a percentage of our revenues this expense decreased to about 6.9% as compared to approximately 6.5% in the prior quarter.
This category will continue to fluctuate with commodity prices and production.
Our effective income tax rate for the quarter was approximately 37% slightly lower than our estimated 38% statutory tax rate primarily due to the higher pretax income from the gain on the Vanguard units in January 2012 which allowed us to utilize more preferential tax items.
For the remainder of 2012 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between the 38% and 39% with current taxes representing about 20% of our total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Average debt outstanding was $2.7 billion about $100 million above Q4 2011 level.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest increased slightly sequentially to $36.3 million from $35.7 million last quarter.
Capitalized interest was $19.4 million as compared to $19.6 million in Q4.
We currently expect that our capitalized interest will be between $15 million and $19 million for the quarter for the remainder of 2012.
We had $445 million outstanding on our $1.6 billion bank credit facility at the end of the quarter up from $385 million at year end.
However net of our cash positions our bank debt was approximately $228 million at the end of Q1 as compared to $366 million at year end.
At the end of Q1 our cash balance was approximately $218 million.
We plan to use a portion of the cash realized from the sale of our assets earlier in 2012 and additional borrowings on our credit facility to fund the $360 million Thompson acquisition when it closes.
We recently went through our semiannual borrowing base redetermination and our lenders reaffirmed our borrowing base at $1.6 billion with a potential for that borrowing base to be significantly higher if needed or if we desired.
Our capitalization metrics continue to be very strong and our debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 36% and our debt to Q1 annualized adjusted cash flow and EBITDA at 1.9x and 1.7x respectively.
If we look back to our analysis of sources and uses of capital for 2012 as we laid out in our analyst meeting last November our current expectations for sources of cash in 2012 using current strip prices are expected to exceed the high end of the range we set for adjusted cash flows from operations which was $1.4 billion.
And our cash to inflows from asset sales came in at approximately $314 million which was more than the $300 million high end of the range.
With our asset sales complete and cash flow running ahead of original estimates we are comfortable increasing our capital budget from $1.35 billion to $1.5 billion without incurring significant incremental debt.
Also we have not repurchased any additional stocks since year end under our stock repurchase program.
After considering the Thompson Field purchase and using current strip prices and assuming no incremental stock repurchases we would project that our bank debt at the end of the year would be around $575 million to $625 million with the increase from the $385 million at year end 2011 due primarily to the Thompson Field acquisition.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
Let me start by saying that our operations ran very well last quarter.
When we look at our tertiary operations tertiary production was 33 257 barrels of oil per day during the first quarter resulting in 7% growth compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
There are several key fields that had material impact on the strong first quarter that I'm going to comment on.
And I'll start with Tinsley.
Tinsley Field production increased by approximately 960 barrels of oil per day compared to the fourth quarter to 7 297 barrels of oil per day.
During the quarter we completed all remediation work on wells in the field that had not been properly plugged and abandoned by prior operators.
This allowed us to resume full CO2 injections in the field.
The field is responding quicker than originally forecast due to high CO2 injection rates enabling the reservoir pressure to increase more rapidly back to target.
We anticipate additional production growth at Tinsley  through mid-year 2012 then relatively flat during the second half of the year.
Delhi.
Delhi Field production continues to exceed forecast as the reservoir responds to CO2 injection and we put more wells online.
Delhi's average production increased by 400 barrels per day compared to the prior quarter and we remain very pleased with the field's response to CO2 injection.
We'll continue to expand our activities at Delhi throughout 2012.
Heidelberg.
Heidelberg tertiary production decreased by approximately 145 barrels of oil per day compared to the fourth quarter.
We conducted extensive components work in the West Heidelberg Field during the second half of 2011 to redirect CO2 in the zones previously not injected into.
We're seeing strong signs that the conformance performance work was successful.
In Q1 production in West Heidelberg has performed better than forecast.
However East Heidelberg production has lagged expectations due to reservoir pressure not increasing as fast as we had forecast.
We've taken supplemental action to build pressure in the reservoir which required some downtime in Q1 to install additional equipment.
We expect the pace of production growth at East Heidelberg to increase as the reservoir pressure grows.
Our overall expectations for the total Heidelberg area which includes both East and West is unchanged as we expect modest production growth in 2012.
Oyster Bayou.
Oyster Bayou contributed production for its first full quarter after we started tertiary production in December of 2011.
Q1 averaged 877 barrels per day and we anticipate additional production growth in 2012 as we bring on more wells and the wells dewater.
Oyster Bayou is expected to have strong growth in 2012 and should reach peak production in the next year or so.
To date it's on track although we have very high expectations.
And it could be tough to fully achieve this year.
Hastings.
Production from the Hastings Fields where we commenced tertiary production in mid-January 2012 averaged 618 barrels per day during the first quarter and we're very encouraged by the field's early reservoir response.
Hastings production is currently exceeding expectations and we expect that to continue throughout 2012.
Most of our other tertiary fields not discussed are either flat or on a modest decline declining about 3% in the aggregate on a sequential quarter basis.
For our full year production guidance for 2012 we're keeping our tertiary production unchanged at 33 000 to 36 000 barrels per day.
Given the early strong performance in Oyster Bayou Hastings Tinsley and Delhi we anticipate full year tertiary production to be in the upper half of that range.
We booked approximately 14 million barrels of proved tertiary reserves at Oyster Bayou in the first quarter and we expect to have proved reserves at Hastings in the second half of the year.
Of the incremental $70 million budget increase for tertiary fields and CO2 sources the majority of that will be spent to accelerate tertiary projects at Hastings and Bell Creek and that's going to benefit our 2013 production.
That concludes my comments on the tertiary fields.
And I'll now move to our Bakken operations.
Bakken production increased 29% over fourth quarter rates averaging 15 114 barrels of oil equivalent during the first quarter.
Improved completion activity in the Bakken continued during the first quarter as we were able to complete 13 wells during the period.
The completion activity improved efficiencies and good weather resulted in better-than-expected production rates.
Also we booked approximately 4 million barrels of additional Bakken proved reserves in the first quarter.
A full summary of recent Bakken well results is available in the corporate presentation posted on our website.
Of note was a recently completed Three Forks test in the Cherry area with encouraging initial production over 2 000 barrels of oil per day.
Our plans are to drill approximately 17 Three Forks wells during 2012.
Our operated well costs have averaged approximately $10.8 million in the first part of the year.
Our goal is to get our cost under $10 million per well and we believe this is possible by the increased efficiency that will come from pad drilling along with our pursuit of opportunities to optimize our drilling and completion practices.
We currently have 5 operated rigs running in the Bakken.
We plan to reduce this count to 4 when we allow 1 of the drilling contracts to expire in the next few weeks.
Our working rig inventory includes 3 efficient flex drilling rigs.
And with these new rigs drilling from multi-well pads our goal is to reduce the number of days to drill.
We have adjusted our capital plans for the Bakken and now plan to keep a fourth rig running for the full year and spend $480 million in the region in 2012 up from $400 million previously announced.
The higher capital expenditures will fund the fourth rig in the second half of the year and cover higher-than-forecasted well costs.
Our original budget assumes that we went down to 3 rigs at mid-year so this represents an increase of a 0.5 rig year.
Considering the time lag from drilling to first production which will be more pronounced with the transition to pad drilling this additional funding is not expected to materially impact 2012 but will give us a boost going into 2013.
We are on track to have our significant leasehold positions held by production during the second quarter.
Once leases are held we'll shift to multi-well pad drilling.
As mentioned our first quarter Bakken production growth was strong.
And although we expect some additional growth in 2012 the growth rate is expected to slow as a result of our gradual reduction in our operated rig count.
For our 2012 full year production forecast we've increased our estimated Bakken production range to between 14 350 and 16 350 barrels of oil per day.
Given the strong first quarter performance and keeping the fourth rig at end of the year we anticipate that we'll be in the upper half of that range.
I'll move now to lease operating expenses.
Operating cost for our tertiary properties averaged $26.74 per barrel in Q1.
That's a 13% increase compared to $23.59 in the prior quarter.
This increase was primarily due to the startup of new fields at Oyster Bayou and Hastings.
The tertiary per barrel operating costs are expected to decline in 2012 as production from these new fields increases.
Non-tertiary operating costs were down by $0.69 per BOE compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
And that's primarily due to our sale of properties with high operating costs.
Total company lease operating cost on a unit basis for the first quarter was $21.19 per barrel as compared to $20.08 per barrel in Q4.
That concludes my remarks.
And I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Craig.
And I'll begin my comments by updating you on our activities in the Riley Ridge and in LaBarge Field in Wyoming.
Recall that Denbury acquired the Riley Ridge unit and the gas processing facility and became operator in August of 2011 with the purchase of the remaining 57.5% working interest.
Strategically the acquisition provides CO2 reserves in excess of 2.2 Tcf for our EOR programs in the Rocky Mountain areas.
The reservoir also produced helium and natural gas.
Now while reviewing and commissioning the various systems at the Riley Ridge gas processing facility our operations team identified several design modifications to equipment and safety systems that needs to be adjusted.
The proposed changes will provide assurance that the plant runs safely and effectively.
However some of the modifications require materials with normal lead times or long order times.
And as a result we now anticipate that the field will start production in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As Mark mentioned in his comments the delayed startup resulted in an after-tax charge of approximately $2 million related to take-or-pay contracts for the helium we expected to produce from the plant.
The construction of additional processing our sweetening facility to separate the CO2 from the remaining natural gas streams and the construction of a CO2 pipeline to our EOR facility remains on track to be completed in approximately 5 years.
For the most part much of the expense of the process in sweetening CO2 will be carried by the sales of helium and the methane.
Now let me give you a quick update on the Greencore pipeline which is our first CO2 transportation pipeline in the Rocky Mountain.
The Greencore pipeline will connect ConocoPhillips' operated Lost Cabin process facility to our Bell Creek Field.
Now to complete the second half -- we completed the first half or 150 miles of the 232-mile line during 2011.
And construction activities are scheduled to resume in August after wildlife stipulations are lifted.
This final segment should be completed and commissioned by December of this year.
In fact the first connecting piping from Lost Cabin gas facility to our adjacent compression side is now in progress with compression and metering equipments being installed later this year.
So our Rocky Mountain's EOR plans are taking shape and well underway.
Let me move now to Jackson Dome area where our CO2 production rate averaged over 1 Bcf per day during the quarter.
During the first quarter we drilled a development well in the Gluckstadt Field.
The well at the Anderson Estate is being completed and connected to our dehydration system.
Once completed in the next 2 weeks the well should produce approximately 50 million cubic feet a day.
Our plans in the Jackson Dome area are to continue to drill the many development opportunities that exist in the area.
Our geologic team has identified 33 different drilling opportunities in the Jackson Dome.
The locations will be hydrated and drilled to further increase our CO2 production rate during the next few years.
Denbury has several additional Tcf of unproven CO2 potential at Jackson Dome.
But a proved potential is expected to provide CO2 for future oilfield acquisitions.
As part of our addition to the 2012 capital program we are drilling another well at Jackson Dome to further increase our supply.
Now the second rig is moving to the Jackson Dome area this week.
We also are reviewing our long-term capital program at Jackson Dome in order to develop enough CO2 for our newest acquisition Thompson Field.
While this will require some additional drilling at Jackson Dome and/or additional sources of man-made or anthropogenic CO2 we are confident we can develop the incremental CO2 required to this latest acquisition.
We continue to pursue various sources of anthropogenic CO2 on our Gulf Coast property.
Our extensive CO2 flame activities and pipeline infrastructure in the region provide us a meaningful strategic advantage on this area.
Now fairly quickly on the 2 facilities that are currently under construction in the Gulf Coast region that will provide us anthropogenic CO2.
First is Air Products.
That's located in Port Arthur.
It's a gasifier that is expected to be online the first quarter of 2012.
And it's going to provide us approximately 50 million cubic feet a day at Hastings Field.
And then Mississippi Power plant Kemper County is also on schedule to be completed during 2014 and that should deliver a little over 115 million cubic feet a day or more of CO2 to our Southeast Mississippi fields.
We remain in ongoing discussions with sponsors of numerous other proposed CO2-producing plants that are in and considered along the Gulf Coast area.
Our CO2 EOR operation provides a proven method to store man-made CO2.
And we continue our efforts to develop anthropogenic CO2 sources to complement our natural sources of CO2.
With that I'll turn the phone back over to Jack.
Thanks Bob.
Kevin can you open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] First question is from the line of Scott Hanold RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bob you sort of addressed some of this but I'm going to ask the question in different ways.
When you look at the acquisition of the Thompson Field in general we all think the CO2 -- incremental CO2 needed is is it like around 0.5 Tcf? And then further that when you step back and look at Jackson Dome can you talk about as you could look forward to potentially acquire more fields and whatnot how much potential do you think incrementally could be there? Well we have identified between the Norfolk formation and the [indiscernible] formation we've identified potential of possible reserves of 7 Tcf of CO2.
And remember Phil said it's going to be 2017.
So we feel like we have some time to develop those reserves.
We're taking capital investments now in the infrastructure to be able to move that type of reserves through -- or the type of volume through our pipeline systems.
And again we have 5 years to do that so we're implementing those plans.
Phil as you heard has got us to drill another well at Jackson Dome.
And so we're going to have to modify our drilling program to do this acquisition.
But we feel like we can deliver those volumes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what kind of incremental deliverability would be just associated with it? And is that sort of 0.5 Tcf of CO2 requirement for development roughly...
I think you're correct.
Between 0.5 to 1 Tcf for that field.
And if you look at the rate I mean it's -- we're at 1.5 -- I mean 150 million to 200 million cubic feet a day for Oyster Bayou and Hastings.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then when you look at the end of that field I know you ought to get out there and do a little bit of work to kind of see what needs to be done.
But do you compare and contrast in terms of whether it's been water-flooded.
The pressure in the reservoir is this going to be something that ramps up quickly? Or is it going to be longer? And can you just give us a little bit of color with the understanding how you recognize you've got to kind of get out there and do some work? Well it's a free reservoir so it's the same as Hastings.
And so we would expect the response to be similar to what we see at Hastings.
It has been water-flooded similar to Hastings.
It currently has a higher percentage of oil left in the ground so we think that's an attractive aspect of the reservoir as well.
But in general we would see it perform quite similarly to Hastings Oyster Bayou and frankly somewhat similar to our Mississippi fields.
And this is not quite as large as Hastings.
Hastings is probably 800 million to 900 million barrels of oil in place.
This is 650 million in total.
And at this point we've just identified really about 1/2 of what we think is at least the initial floodable area.
But from a technical standpoint the characteristics are very very similar.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think you said there's more relative oil in place.
Why is that? Has it just not been as -- produces much from a conventional perspective? That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving to the Bakken can you talk about the type of returns that you think you're seeing right now the current well costs and where do you think that's going to go? And when you look at your capital decision how that impacts that? Well as you know we publish that comparison.
Although on a slide show I think we used $90 and of course oil is closer to $100.
So we're probably in the upper 20s low 30s probably at today's price.
Our costs are a little higher than what we're using in that analysis but we still think we can -- with pad drilling and so forth we think going forward we'll still get down in the below 10 or upper 9s.
On the well costs I think that the one we used for the public is $9.6 million.
Oil's a little higher costs are a little higher right at this moment but we're still pretty optimistic about getting that down.
LLC Research Division</strong> And approximately how many stages are you using in the average completion on that right now? Well we're still optimizing that.
But in the 20s upper or mid-20s.
And next question is from the line of Mike Scialla of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that Thompson Field only part of it is floodable at this point.
Can you elaborate on what you need to see to determine if more of that is going to be floodable with CO2? Well we of course haven't had a chance to really look at it very hard.
We know that the field is a bit more faulted than perhaps Hastings or some of our other fields.
And so the question is how many of those fault blocks are really practical to flood.
Before we bought it we had the guys do a little bit of a cursory review of it.
And they feel very comfortable with what we presented.
But that's why I kind of said in my opening remarks I think that number will grow as we dig into it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you even give us a ballpark of what the say maximum could be or some kind of upside to the expected number? Well as mentioned in the press release we think oil in place is 650 million barrels.
We have assumed 300 million barrels as an initial EOR target.
All of the 650 million barrels oil in place is a potential EOR target as it has oil in it.
And therefore it can be with CO2 contact we get more oil out.
So that's the range of outcomes.
We think we're taking a conservative approach in the initial estimate and the additional scrubbing of the development plan I think will prove that more.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
And you talked about the additional reserves you booked at Oyster Bayou how about at Heidelberg? I think you'd said Craig that your forecast there is unchanged.
But in terms of reserve potential do you see that 31 million of proved and 11 million of 2P and 3P is that still the right number? Or has that changed? I'm not looking for the numbers -- it's on my fingertips.
But in general our outlook for Heidelberg reserve is unchanged.
We're pleased with the conformance work that will access those reserves that are proved.
And so we believe we're on track with what we've previously forecast.
Mike we didn't make any adjustments through the Heidelberg reserves nor have we today.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So maybe the way to think of it when I'm modeling it is it -- do you still feel like that potential is still there but maybe spread out over a longer time since you're going to be flooding fewer zones at a given time? It probably is a little bit more of a modest growth.
That would be accurate.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Bob you mentioned the delay at Riley Ridge.
Does that affect the timing of Bell Creek at all? No.
Because Bell Creek's initial CO2 is actually coming from Lost Cabin.
The ConocoPhillips operated Lost Cabin and that's on schedule.
We are actually making connections from their plant to our compression station during this month.
And the pipeline is on schedule.
And we should be commissioning it December and injection December January of next year? Yes.
Just as a refresher Cimarex designed this plant and they were going to reinject the CO2 which is what we plan to do initially.
So with the initial methane helium sales we'll be reinjecting CO2.
What we'll do by the time the pipeline gets there in about 5 years is we'll have I guess we call it the sweetener plant but an add-on to the plant that would hold the CO2 out of that stream as we'll use it for EOR.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Given where the gas prices are would there be any reason to -- I mean how long is that delay going to be in place? And should we expect some more charges going forward for the take-or-pay contract? Well we're anticipating fourth quarter now.
And so if we're on track then the charge is probably pretty close.
While gas-only sells for a couple of bucks helium still has a pretty good price about $70.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one for me on the -- you mentioned a good Three Forks well that you've recently completed.
Have you tested the lower benches yet in Three Forks? I think you had mentioned you had some plans to do that.
No sir we have not.
There have been no tests.
We've only drilled 3 I think significant tests so we've not had time to go in and go after the lower benches.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any of the near-term wells plan to test that zone? Or are you going to let other people do that? I think initially we're going to let some other people do that.
We may cut a core in it but...
Next question is from the line of Pearce Hammond of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> At Tinsley you've had a tremendous amount of success as demonstrated in the quarter nice production uptick from fourth quarter to first quarter.
You elaborated a little bit on Heidelberg and some of the challenges there.
What's it going to take to kind of get Heidelberg starting to point in that same kind of direction upward like Tinsley? Well I will take that in 2 pieces.
The Heidelberg reservoir rock is different than Tinsley so it's going to have a different characteristic.
So frankly the production profile for Tinsley and Heidelberg are going to be a bit different with Tinsley responding probably quicker and over a shorter time period than Heidelberg.
That's really the quick answer.
Again it's going to be in 2 pieces.
So West Heidelberg we're kind of past the peak production profile of West Heidelberg but we have many many more years of production out of there.
And so we're pleased with how that's going to look but it's going to be relatively flat for an extended period out of West Heidelberg.
East Heidelberg is a new flood.
That production profile will increase as it reaches its plateau.
So we think there's a nice production and growth component that comes from that as that flood matures over the next year or 2.
I hope that provides the color you're looking for.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then on a housekeeping note any updates on share repurchases? No.
I mean we have not purchased any to date in 2012.
So the aggregate is that $195 million that we've purchased in the fourth quarter of '11 just under $14 a share.
And I guess that it's just kind of the standard answer we have authorized up to $500 million but we're just kind of watching being opportunistic and most likely won't do anything unless we think the stock price slips significantly to low crude NAV.
Research Division</strong> And then on the production guidance I know it doesn't include the Thompson Field acquisition.
But assuming that acquisition does close in early June will you be revisiting your production guidance at that time? It's just hard to do when you don't know the exact date.
I mean we anticipate it would close in early June.
But of course that could slip or be plus or minus a few weeks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me is where are you seeing service costs right now on the Bakken on a leading-edge basis and service availability as well? Well the service availability is increasing as more and more crudes go into the basin.
So that's good which has a connection to the cost side because there's more supply of services.
We do see a bit of a softening in the service cost line.
Research Division</strong> Do you have contracts that are coming due later this year that you can take advantage of some of those lower prices? We believe we do have some opportunity to get our contracts into a lower price yes.
Next question is from the line of Jeff Robertson Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Phil can you all talk a little bit about how Thompson will be slotted into your Gulf Coast EOR project? And will it have any impact on your expectations for the timing of Conroe? No.
It doesn't affect Conroe.
Conroe is scheduled to have a line there by 2014 and initial injection in 2015.
At this point in time we've said probably 2017 or so for Thompson.
That timing is to be fair is a little soft or actually quite soft perhaps.
We know it's going to take us 2 or 3 years unitized and take us 2 or 3 years per line down there.
So that's the absolute minimum.
But we really need to kind of coordinate this with our supply and get the model built and so forth.
So our initial blush is 2017.
Research Division</strong> Since that's so close to Hastings it will have -- and I guess a little bit further to the west from Oyster Bayou it has to be slotted in from a supply standpoint with needs for those fields.
Is that right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is the production that you're buying at Thompson can you talk about just what kind of profile it's on as you take it over and what it might do for 2000 -- or for the rest of '12 and into '13? Well there are a lot of development projects there.
I mean these are low kind of corner shoot  wells and that sort of thing.
And the prior owners have done a lot of that.
We have several identified.
So I think we've said in the release we may spend $12 million -- $10 million to $12 million a year or so.
And if we do that we think we can hold the production pretty flat.
I think there's enough conventional work that we can do that it should have a pretty steady production profile.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly does the unitization with you are there other interests that you may be able to acquire or would consider acquiring? Or is that just forming units so you can go from the water flood to a CO2 flood? Yes.
This is a forming unit.
It's next to impossible to do in an EOR flood without unitizing the field because of where the CO2 goes.
Next question is from the line of the Hsulin Peng Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed this but I was wondering which tertiary fields is getting the incremental CapEx in 2012? The tertiary fields are Hastings.
We're going to put additional compression at Hastings.
And Bell Creek we're going to put additional facilities in wells there so hopefully to accelerate our 2013 production.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then in terms of the -- can you also talk about the potential for booking reserves at the Hastings later in second -- later in 2012? Yes.
We've kind of talked about this a little bit before but we expect it to be in the second half of '12 third or fourth quarter.
And as you probably know we tend to book about 75% of what we think the potential is.
And so if you kind of translate that to Hastings it's probably between 40 million and 50 million barrels that we would expect to add some time second half of this year.
There's also a little -- a few million barrels are kind of small but little bit more potential also at Oyster Bayou as the field continues to respond.
So the 14 million isn't quite if you will 75% of our potential.
We kind of book it in pieces here so there's more upside there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question in terms of your Bakken development can you talk about how much of your Bakken is on pad drilling and how many wells per pad are you targeting right now? What we're doing is we have all the acreage held now.
So we're going to put 3 wells per pad.
And some of those will be Bakken formation some of them will be Three Forks.
But right now it's just 3 wells per pad.
Research Division</strong> And that's all you are doing? You're not doing any single well drilling anymore right? No.
That would not be correct.
We still have some single wells that we would like to drill especially when we try to look at the Three Forks.
We will probably keep 1 of our rigs doing the 4 doing the single wells and the other 3 will be skid or pad drilling.
Your next question is from the line of Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to add 2 quick ones.
First just in the Bakken I was just wondering on when you look at sort of the takeaway I guess going forward as you continue to ramp how you set there and if that had any influence on sort of your thoughts as far as just the going to 4 rigs the rest of the year.
Why not  with the great results you had there go back up to a fifth or a sixth rig? Well I guess the short answer to it is we're just trying to manage our cash flow vis--vis debt.
And our results all prices has been strong production has been strong et cetera.
And so we have a little extra money compared to what we originally forecasted last calls.
But we felt like at this point going to 4 rigs or spending $480 million is all we want to do at this time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question just for Bob.
Just wondering again just not being familiar with kind of the delay we saw at Riley Ridge just your view on this safety review.
Is that relatively common Bob? Is there coming out doing that before these plants? No.
Well a plant of this size you have a presafety startup review and our people did that.
And so they went through.
And what happened is in this particular one there's materials inside a valve and inside the equipment.
And so we have 1 particular valve that the [indiscernible] is not quite right.
And so we have to replace that valve stem even just a part of it.
And so that's the long lead item we're looking at.
At the same time we get to go make sure the other processes are operating correctly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I get it.
So it's just a long lead item on that one particular that caused a quarter I guess or 2 of delay? Yes.
That would be correct.
And it gives us time to look at other processes and look at the facility.
And as Phil pointed out that at today's gas prices it's not a big loss of revenue.
Next question from the line of Andrew Coleman Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question -- I kind of got on the call a little late.
But thinking about where Thompson slots in do you need additional CO2 for that? Or does it -- and I guess where would it slot in for the -- looking at the estimated EOR peak production schedule you have in your current slide deck? Yes.
We talked about it a little bit already.
But we intentionally  -- at least initially expect it to be around 2017 is when we get there and start flooding it.
That is to give us time to unitize the field and get pipeline there and so forth.
We do need a little bit more CO2 as we probably talked.
We're pretty much in balance with our program pre-Thompson and what we have in proved reserves and reserves at Jackson Dome.
But if you could go back and look at the notes Bob pointed out there's probably 6 or 7 Tcf of probable and possible reserves we still see at Jackson Dome.
So we won't need to develop some of those but we're highly confident that there will be plenty for Thompson.
And we just need to kind of schedule that out schedule the supply and coordination of the CO2 down the pipelines and so forth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then thinking about the capital increase there for this year will there be any additional work at Jackson Dome then as a result? We did add 1 additional well we're going to drill at Jackson Dome so that's about $15 million to $16 million.
[Operator Instructions] We do have a question in queue from the line of Robert Bellinski Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to see if there's any interest or opportunity to acquire additional acreage in the Bakken at this point.
Probably not.
We've occasionally picked up some little add-on pieces that's probably not -- was a great asset and we like the value we're creating here.
It's probably not something we're really trying to expand or really focus on.
Most of the expansion or acquisitions would likely be or almost certainly be EOR candidates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is just want -- it's probably a long shot but I was wondering if there's any new thoughts or developments in the Tuscaloosa given the level of exploration activity by other producers in the region.
There's really not any new news there.
As you know we have a relationship with EnCana.
And so they continue to pursue that.
And we hope they're very successful.
And we're not participating in some of those wells we got carried on the first 2 wells.
So they continue to drill and we watch the results.
Our interest is really pretty small it's 15% of that JV.
So plus or minus what 15 000 acres net? And so really -- and EnCana is kind of publishing results as they see fit.
So I guess just watch EnCana.
Your next question is from the line of Noel Parks of Ladenburg.
Research Division</strong> And again like other people I apologize if you've touched on this already.
But the Air Products plant that -- I think the last I heard you guys talk about it was on schedule to go live by the end of the year and hopefully be delivering -- ready to deliver CO2 by first quarter next year.
Do you have -- or I guess when are we going to be able to hear about sort of the CO2 cost and what the expense -- or how the expenses of building the pipeline are going to get shared and so forth? Well we intentionally try to avoid giving specifics on every little CO2 contract that we have obviously because of discussions with other people.
What we have stated is that the man made CO2 is going to be more expensive than our natural source.
Our natural source is running $0.25 $0.30 out of pocket and maybe $0.10 DD&amp;A so probably in the $0.30 to $0.40 range.
And these man-made sources are kind of in rough numbers almost 2x I guess although they both fluctuate with the price of oil.
So they will be a little bit more expensive but the pipeline itself is very minimal.
It's just a few miles off our Green line.
So in this case it's a very minimal cost to connect their products.
Research Division</strong> Has the planning work already begun for that project? Yes.
Yes.
The project is underway.
Noel this is Bob Cornelius.
Yes the project is underway as far as their products.
And the planning for the pipeline yes it's underway too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Do you know when you're going to -- the construction is going to start on that? Well we should have CO2...
About a year from now? About a year from now 2013.
It won't take a couple of million.
It's a small diameter short line.
[Operator Instructions] We do have a follow-up actually from the line of Jeff Robertson Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Well just real quick I apologize if I missed this earlier.
But you all talked a little earlier about the conformance issues at Heidelberg.
Can you just remind me of where you are in that project and where you think production will start getting restored? Well for the initial phase of the conformance work it's completed.
And we believe the production has been restored.
So we're pleased with the production response we're getting.
To get a little technical one of the key measures we watch is the gas flow ratio.
And so that's the amount of CO2 that comes out with the barrels of oil.
And so one of the keys of success one of the objectives of conformance is to get more barrels of oil out per CO2 injected.
And we're seeing that happen at Heidelberg.
So we believe that the conformance work has been successful and so production has moderated and their profile looks good.
That being said given the character of the rock at Heidelberg there's 10 zones we will always be aggressively addressing and watching conformance.
And so that's just an aspect of that field that we'll continue to watch carefully.
But we're very pleased with the results to date and encouraged what the future is at Heidelberg at West Heidelberg.
At this time we have no additional questions in queue.
All right.
Well thanks everybody for your attendance and participation today.
Just so you're aware we have a few conferences coming up one in New York on May 8 one in Chicago in May 10 and then we have our annual meeting here in Dallas on May 15.
So 2 or 3 events.
We're also planning some investor trips in Canada the Mid-Atlantic and the West Coast over the next few months.
So if you're in one of those areas and want to meet with us let Jack know and we'll try to get that scheduled.
So other than that our next earnings call will be second quarter results and that is scheduled for Thursday August 2.
So thank you much.
We look forward to a great 2012 and things are starting off well.
We appreciate your attendance today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference.
We do thank you for joining while using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Second Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
My name is Kaylee and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Mr.
Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Kaylee.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our second quarter 2012 results conference call.
With me today in the room from Denbury are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bob Cornelius our Senior Vice President of CO2 operations.
In a moment I'll turn the call over to Phil and to the other members of senior management to discuss second quarter results and our outlook.
Before that let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's press release all of which are posted to our website www.denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations and disclosure on these measures is provided in today's press release.
With that let me turn the call over to Phil.
Thank you Jack.
Before I start reviewing the quarter I'd like to just express congratulations to 2 members of our senior management team on recent promotions.
As we have previously announced we recently promoted Craig McPherson to Chief Operating Officer.
He's done a remarkable for us in the year he's been at Denbury exceeding expectations and he's playing a key role on taking our operations to a higher level.
Craig's on the call with us today and of course you'll probably see him on a regular basis in the future.
We also promoted Charlie Gibson to Senior Vice President of Planning Technology and Business Development.
As we continue our growth and expansion in both the Gulf Coast and Rockies the planning and technology areas are vital to Denbury and he's -- Charlie has demonstrated his expertise and leadership during the last 10 years at Denbury.
And as such we have placed him over one of the most significant aspects of our business demonstrating our faith in his abilities.
So congratulations to both of them.
Turning to the second quarter as you saw on this morning's press release we continue to execute well in 2012.
We have growing reserves growing production lowering cost and most importantly creating value for our shareholders.
Our tertiary production increased by 6% sequentially as a result of growth from our fields at Hastings and Oyster Bayou and also Tinsley and Heidelberg.
Craig will give you much more color on that here in a minute.
Based on the strong tertiary response to date at Hastings we are able to book initial proved tertiary reserves in this field a bit earlier than we had originally expected.
We added about 43 million barrels of oil reserves at Hastings with a PV-10 Value of over $1 billion and that's using SEC pricing of approximately $95 oil.
By itself that's an incremental value of between $2.50 and $3 per share.
If you recall we added 14 million barrels of proved tertiary reserves last quarter at Oyster Bayou and that had a PV-10 Value of more than $500 million.
So combined these 2 EOR gives fields gives us nearly 57 million barrels of incremental tertiary oil reserves in the first half of 2012 adding about $4 a share to our PV-10 Value.
At both of these fields we would expect to add to these proved reserve numbers over time as the fields are further developed.
Another point you might make here is that Hastings and Oyster Bayou's positive response to CO2 injections is also very favorable for the recently acquired Thompson.
If you recall Thompson's about 18 miles from Hastings and the important point is that all 3 fields produce from the same preo [ph] formation.
With reserve additions at Hastings Oyster Bayou and the Bakken we've increased our internally estimated proved reserves up 12% from year-end 2011 levels.
So bottom line the tertiary program's doing well and it's creating real value.
We reported second quarter adjusted net income $138 million $0.35 a share adjusted cash flow of $3.62.
Both of them ahead of Wall Street consensus estimates.
Even though oil prices are lower this quarter than comparative periods I think it's really neat that adjusted EPS was only down slightly and adjusted cash flow actually increased as the higher production nearly offset the lower prices and cash expenses changed only modestly.
Of course as Jack mentioned these are non-GAAP measures so be aware of those differences.
Production growth from our other large asset the Bakken slowed significantly this quarter correlating to a reduction in the rig count.
However we are very pleased our Bakken costs are coming down as expected due to lower service costs and improved efficiencies and Craig again will give you more of the details.
With our high exposure to Gulf Coast oil prices we continue to realize premium pricing for oil production.
For the quarter our oil differentials improved from a slight negative differential WTI in the first quarter to slightly more than $2 above this quarter pretty much as expected.
With all the talk around NGLs recently it might be worth noting that we have very little exposure to NGLs as they comprised only about 2.5% of our production in the second quarter.
Almost all of that is in the Rockies and the bulk of that is in Bakken.
Our operating costs per BOE declined on a combination of production growth sales assets with high op costs and a reclassification of equipment leases which Mark will give you more color on.
With our premium price realizations our focus on crude oil a reduction in cost our operating margins have been one of the highest in the peer group and we expect this to remain true in the second quarter.
While not all of our peers have reported second quarter results for those that have our sequential decline in gross operating margin due to the decline in oil prices is the smallest of the group.
I think this illustrates an important point our ability to outperform our peers in a lower price environment even with our generally higher lease operating expenses.
We may have some more detail on that at the Intercom Conference here in a couple of weeks.
But in summary 2012 continues to shape up as a great year for Denbury.
We continue to deliver the premium values directly resulting from our unique long-term strategy.
So with that introduction let's take a look at the details.
We'll start with Mark's review of the numbers.
Thanks Phil.
In my comments I'll provide further analysis of our quarterly results primarily focusing on the sequential change in results from first quarter of 2012.
I will also provide some forward-looking guidance for your financial models.
Our adjusted net income a non-GAAP measure for the second quarter was $138 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
This was down from first quarter adjusted net income of $161 million or $0.41 per diluted share primarily due to lower oil price realizations and higher DD&amp;A partially offset by lower lease operating costs and G&amp;A expense.
After tax items excluded from adjusted net income in the second quarter included a non-cash fair value hedging gain of $82 million a $5 million charge related to the change in classification of our equipment leases and $3 million of charges related to the delayed startup of our Riley Ridge facility.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $362 million for Q2 up slightly from $352 million last quarter primarily due to lower operating costs and the lower percentage of our taxes being current which was higher in the prior quarter due to asset sales.
Our continuing total production for the quarter of about 72 280 barrels of oil equivalent per day was up 16% from the prior year period and 4% sequentially.
As indicated in our press release we are keeping our continuing 2012 production estimates unchanged at the range of 69 350 BOE per day to 74 350 BOE per day though we continue to anticipate production will be in the upper half of this range.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was down about $7 from first quarter to about $95.60 per barrel.
This decline was less than the decline in the average NYMEX oil price as we sold our oil at an average price of more than $2 above NYMEX in the second quarter as compared to a nearly $0.40 discount in the first quarter.
This improvement was driven by better pricing for our tertiary oil production which more than offset wider Bakken differentials.
All of our tertiary production is in the Gulf Coast region and the majority of it's sold on the LLS-based indexes.
The average NYMEX price premium for our tertiary production increased by nearly $4 from the first quarter to about $13.60 per barrel with some of our tertiary production receiving premiums to NYMEX around $19 for this quarter.
Differentials in our Rocky Mountain properties widened out in the second quarter with our Bakken production averaging more than a $20 discount to NYMEX as compared to a roughly $17 discount in the first quarter.
Some of this decline is related to NGL pricing which lowered our realized price in the Bakken by just under $3 per barrel this quarter as compared to about $2 per barrel last quarter.
Our realized Bakken oil price differentials have been rather volatile this year ranging from the low teens to the mid to upper 20s but generally improving during the second quarter and into the third.
Based on what we have seen in our NYMEX differentials thus far in the third quarter we currently anticipate that our overall corporate realized oil price should be slightly positive to average NYMEX prices in Q3.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
We plan to continue to execute a strategy of protecting our oil price downside while retaining upside through costless collars which are based on NYMEX oil prices.
However since our last call we have not added to our hedge positions.
But we have -- currently have hedges going through the end of 2013.
Full details of our hedge positions are shown in our corporate presentation available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
In the second quarter we received approximately $8 million from our gas hedges and paid out less than $1 million on our oil hedges.
The average floor price for our hedges in the second half of 2012 is $80.
Our lease operating expense was $125 million for the quarter or just under $19 per BOE down approximately $13 million or over $2 per BOE from the prior quarter.
The decrease on a per BOE basis was primarily driven by the increase in production in our tertiary fields the divestiture of non-core assets with relatively high average unit operating cost and the change in classification of our equipment leases during the quarter.
For our tertiary operations lease operating expense per BOE averaged $23 for the quarter compared to almost $27 in the first quarter.
Craig will discuss our lease operating expense trends in more detail in a few minutes but let me touch on the impact of the change in classification of our equipment leases.
For some time we have been entering into sale-leaseback transactions for certain compressors and equipment used in our tertiary operating facilities.
During the quarter we determined that some of the provisions in our lease agreements require that we change our accounting for them to capital leases from operating leases.
The classification resulted in the future lease payments coming on to our balance sheet increasing debt by $164 million and property and equipment by $157 million.
This change also reduced second quarter lease operating expense by $8 million which is offset by an approximate $7 million increase in DD&amp;A and $2 million increase in interest expense.
Although this change has no impact on the expense we would ultimately record it did result in a onetime incremental after-tax expense of approximately $5 million this quarter.
For the remainder of 2012 we expect our total company LOE per BOE to be in the low $20 range.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $35 million a modest decline from the $37 million in Q1.
Of our second quarter G&amp;A expense about $7 million was stock-based compensation.
For the remainder of 2012 we expect G&amp;A expense to be between $35 million and $40 million per quarter but approximately $7 million to $10 million of that is stock-based compensation.
Our overall DD&amp;A per BOE increased to just over $20 this quarter an increase of about $1.50 from Q1.
This increase was principally driven by the previously mentioned lease reclassification and additional reserves added in the Bakken which have higher F&amp;D costs than our tertiary operations.
We expect DD&amp;A per BOE to increase moderately throughout the remainder of 2012.
Our taxes other than income decreased by about $0.80 per BOE from Q1 to $5.90 this quarter.
As a percentage of oil and natural gas revenues this expense decreased to 6.6% from 6.9% last quarter.
This reduction was primarily driven by lower commodity prices.
Our effective income tax rate for the quarter was approximately 38% in line with our estimated statutory rate.
However current taxes represented less than 1% of taxes in the quarter which was primarily the result of reduction in oil prices during the second quarter.
For the remainder of 2012 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 38% and 39% with current taxes representing approximately 10% to 15% of our total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Total debt at June 30 was approximately $3 billion an approximate $240 million increase from the end of Q1 of which $164 million relates to the reclassification of our equipment leases.
We have $520 million drawn on our $1.6 billion bank line at the end of the second quarter.
Based on the results of our semiannual borrowing base redetermination in the spring and additional tertiary reserve bookings since then we believe we have the ability to significantly increase our $1.6 billion borrowing base if we so desired.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest increased by about $5 million from Q1 to $42 million.
The increase was a result of additional borrowing on our credit facility the equipment lease reclassification and roughly $1 million reduction in capitalized interest due to the startup of new tertiary floods.
Capitalized interest in the quarter was $18 million and we expect our capitalized interest to be between $15 million and $20 million per quarter for the second half of 2012.
Our capitalization metrics remained solid with our debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 36% and our debt to Q2 annualized adjusted cash flow and EBITDA at 2x and 1.8x respectively.
Our 2012 capital budget remains at $1.5 billion slightly less than half of which has been spent through midyear.
Utilizing recent NYMEX oil and gas strip prices and assuming no incremental stock repurchases during 2012 we would project our bank debt to end the year at between $700 million and $800 million.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
We'll start with our core tertiary business.
Tertiary production was just over 35 200 barrels of oil per day during the second quarter.
That's up 6% from the first quarter with several key sales that had material impacts on the strong second quarter that I'm going to comment on.
We'll start with Tinsley.
Tinsley Field production increased by almost 900 barrels of oil per day compared to the first quarter to nearly 8 200 barrels of oil per day.
We completed our remediation work in the first quarter on wells in the field that had not been properly plugged and abandoned by prior operators.
This makes the second quarter the first full quarter of full strength CO2 injections since remediation work began last year.
Tinsley has continued to respond favorably to the high CO2 injection rate which has enabled the reservoir pressure to increase more rapidly back to target.
We expect production at Tinsley to plateau during the back half of 2012.
We are developing the north block at Tinsley with an expected production response in 2013.
Moving to Delhi Field.
Delhi's production slightly declined in the second quarter to about 4 000 barrels per day.
Production has plateaued this past quarter pending the response from the next phase of development.
With the water production we're seeing from the newer areas we do expect production to grow later this year at Delhi.
Heidelberg.
Heidelberg Field production increased 240 barrels per day in the second quarter to over 3 800 barrels per day.
At West Heidelberg we continued to see strong signs that our performance work in the second half of 2011 and early 2012 was quite successful.
We're also starting to see additional response in the Christianson [ph] in West Heidelberg.
Overall we expect Heidelberg tertiary production to stay relatively flat in the third quarter and then increase in the fourth quarter as additional patterns in East Heidelberg respond.
Moving to Oyster Bayou.
Oyster Bayou production increased nearly 430 barrels per day in the second quarter to about 1 300 barrels per day primarily due to more wells being brought online during the quarter.
We're pleased with the early results of Oyster Bayou.
While not conclusive we feel it appears to be acting like a miscible flood with a better-than-expected sweep of the reservoir.
This is a good outcome.
Characteristics of the early response imply that CO2's contacting more reservoir rocks earlier than we had forecast.
Since the CO2 will contact oil that travels through a larger amount of rock it's going to take a bit longer to reach a producing well than we originally predicted.
So the pace of Oyster Bayou's 2012 production growth may not be quite as deep as we had originally forecast but the implications of this on long-term performance of Oyster Bayou is encouraging.
We still expect Oyster Bayou to show strong production growth through the year and expect deep production over the next 12 to 18 months.
Hastings.
Hastings production increased by about 1 300 barrels per day to over 1 900 barrels per day in the second quarter.
Hastings production exceeded expectation as the field responded quite well to CO2 injection.
We expect production to grow into the third quarter and then moderate as we reach the capacity of our recycle compression.
Additional compression is anticipated at year end which should further this production as we go into 2013.
Most of our other tertiary fields not discussed are either flat or on a modest decline declining about 4% in the aggregate on a sequential quarter basis.
For our full year production guidance for 2012 we're keeping our tertiary production unchanged at 33 000 to 36 000 barrels per day.
Given the strong performance to date we continue to anticipate full year tertiary production to be in the upper half of that range.
With that I'll move on to our Bakken operations.
While Bakken production has nearly doubled year-over-year as anticipated production improved only slightly in the quarter over Q1 level at just over 15 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our rate of quarterly production growth in the Bakken slowed as we reduced our operated rig count in the area to 4 from a peak of 7 last year.
On the operated side 4 fewer wells came online in Q2 versus Q1 which slowed the production growth rate.
The quarter was also impacted by completion operation difficulties on 3 operated wells which accounted for approximately 500 barrels of oil per day of lost production in the quarter.
We anticipate production to increase modestly in the third quarter as several joint pads come online.
Our operated well costs have averaged approximately $10.5 million per well in the first half of 2012.
Our most recent wells are at or slightly under $10 million per well because we realized the increased efficiency from pad drilling along with optimization of our drilling and completion practices and service contracts.
For 2012 full year production forecast we've kept out estimated Bakken production range unchanged at 14 350 to 16 350 barrels per day.
With that I'll move to lease operating expenses.
Our tertiary operating expenses declined by about $3.80 per barrel from the first quarter with about 2/3 of that decline related to the equipment lease reclassifications Mark discussed and the remainder primarily due to start-up cost associated with getting Oyster Bayou and Hastings online in the first quarter as well as increased production in the second quarter.
Non-tertiary operating costs were down by about $1.30 per BOE compared to Q1 primarily due to the sale of properties with high operating costs.
Total company lease operating costs declined by about $2 per barrel from the first quarter to about $19 per barrel with about half of that reduction coming from the operating lease reclassification.
Lastly I'll review our internally estimated midyear proved reserves.
Our total proved reserves as of June 30 were internally estimated to be about 516 million barrels of oil equivalent.
That consists of 418 million barrels of oil condensate and natural gas liquids and 588 Bcf of natural gas.
Total reserves added during the first half of 2012 were about 85 million barrels of oil equivalent before dispositions of 13 million barrels of oil equivalent.
The majority of our reserve additions were in our tertiary assets where we added about 57 million barrels of oil reserves.
As Phil mentioned our tertiary oil reserves added during the first 6 months were primarily our initial bookings at Hastings and Oyster Bayou of about 43 million barrels and 14 million barrels of oil respectively.
We've also added 16 million barrels of oil equivalent in the Bakken and about 12 million barrels of proved oil reserves from the Thompson acquisition.
That concludes my remarks and I'll turn it over to Bob.
Thank you Craig.
I'll begin my comments by updating you on our activities at Riley Ridge and the LaBarge Field in Wyoming.
As mentioned on last quarter's call the startup of the Riley Ridge gas process utilities has been delayed.
We have to implement safety modifications to the initial design.
Now these modifications are going to ensure that the facility is safe and operated more efficiently.
We currently anticipate the facility to be completed by late 2012 with first production expected in early 2013.
As Mark mentioned we recognized another charge in the second quarter related to the construction delay which increased our accrual for not delivering helium under a take-or-pay contract to the annual maximum of $8 million.
We currently plan to complete the construction of a sweetening plant at Riley Ridge to separate CO2 from the gas stream along with a pipeline to connect this sweetening field to our Rocky Mountain field in approximately 5 years.
Let me give you a quick update on the Greencore pipeline which is a CO2 pipeline we are to build in the Rocky Mountains to connect our source of CO2 at ConocoPhillips Lost Cabin processing facility to our Bell Creek oilfield.
Recall we completed the first half of the 232-mile pipeline during 2011 construction season.
So we have all the necessary permits and approvals and all received and our 2012 construction season commenced on August 1.
The construction of the remaining half of the pipeline will be completed in early December.
So at the Lost Cabin gas facility which is our source of CO2 our construction work is on target and we are currently installing the 3 compressors and electrical substation required to compress the CO2 for the pipeline.
Pumps and meter equipment will be installed later this year.
So activity at the Bell Creek Field the EOR field is also on track to take the CO2 injections that will be delivered in early 2013.
Finally for the Rocky Mountains at Grieve Field we recently received final approval from the BLM to allow construction of the 3-mile 8-inch pipeline to the field and estimates occurred during September early October.
So with the expected start of CO2 injections to Grieve Field during the fourth quarter of 2012 the Greencore pipeline completion and the start of CO2 injections into the Bell Creek Field in early 2013 we can confidently say that our Rocky Mountain EOR plants are gathering shape and we also gathering momentum.
Now I'll move to the Gulf Coast area in the Jackson Dome.
During the second quarter we produced an average of just under 1 Bcf per day of CO2.
During the quarter we also contracted a second drilling rig in Jackson Dome area as we continue to develop our CO2 resources for the Gulf Coast area.
We also completed the Anderson 25-16 #1 that was built in the first quarter.
The well tested approximately 70 million cubic feet per day and has averaged over 50 million cubic feet per day right now.
Our plans at Jackson Dome are to keep the drilling rig running continuously in the area to evaluate the many opportunities our geological team has identified.
The wells we are drilling in 2012 are primarily rate [ph] wells.
So it is unlikely that we will have additional reserve bookings at Jackson Dome during 2012.
We also continue to pursue various sources of anthropogenic or man-made CO2 in the Gulf Coast.
Our extensive CO2 flooding activities and the pipeline infrastructure in the region provide us a meaningful strategic advantage in the area.
Construction of 2 Gulf Coast facilities from which we are -- have agreed to purchase anthropogenic CO2 appear to be on track.
We expect Air Products' Steam Methane Reformer in Port Arthur to be online in the first quarter of 2013 and provide approximately 50 million cubic feet a day to our Texas tertiary operations.
We expect Mississippi Power Plant to be completed during 2014 and provide approximately 115 million cubic feet per day of CO2 to our Southeast Mississippi tertiary field operations.
We are also pursuing various ways to add anthropogenic sources to complement our natural sources of CO2 and we are now ongoing discussions with various sponsors of numerous other proposed plants that are being constructed along the Gulf Coast area.
Our extensive Gulf Coast tertiary operations provide a proven method to store or sequester CO2 while boosting domestic oil production.
So with that I'll turn it over to Jack.
Okay.
Thanks Bob.
Kaylee that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Mike Scialla with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On your tertiary oil guidance you said you'd be toward the high end of the range there.
It looks like if you continue to grow at the same rate you did in the first half you'd be above the high end.
Craig given what you said about what's going on with the various fields what would you need to see to change that to push that guidance up a little bit more? Well maybe just for clarity.
So I said we will be in the upper range so what that means is we will be between the midpoint and the upper number.
Where we end up is going to depend on the pace at which Oyster Bayou Hastings Heidelberg and Delhi respond over the next 6 months.
So really it's -- we're watching those fields.
As we mentioned we're very pleased with how they're performing but there is uncertainty on a month-by-month basis on how they're going to respond further.
So we're just acknowledging that uncertainty in that range.
So while it's possible we can be on the high end of that range it's not a slam dunk.
And we really just need to watch the performance of those fields over the next 6 months.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Can you say where the tertiary production is now? Or maybe what you saw in July? No.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I thought that might be the answer.
For Thompson Field on your last call you said you needed to do some more work to see how much of that field would be floodable.
Is -- do you have any better sense now on Thompson Field? No.
I don't -- we're still looking at it.
I don't think we have anything at this point to change anything we've said.
Well I think we'll just stay with what we've previously stated.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your -- the proved reserves that you booked for Hastings I think you typically book about 75% of the potential that you see in these fields.
Looks like you booked a little bit less than that at Hastings.
Is that because it's a bigger field? And do you anticipate booking any more proved reserves there by the end of this year? We might get some minor adds but it isn't too far off the 75%.
If you look at the range -- well we've been giving a range on it.
But in our slideshow I believe the low end of the range is 60 so 75% of that will be 45.
It was a couple of million barrels off but it was very very close to that range 75% estimate.
So it's pretty much on track.
On both Hastings and Oyster Bayou we do expect to add reserves in the future.
Maybe you get some small bumps by year end but I think it will be more likely over time as the field responds and we can justify it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your well costs in the Bakken I think you were targeting below $10 million.
It sounds like it's crept up a little bit.
Yet I hear that everybody's seeing more service availability there.
Do you anticipate that that will translate into lower well costs in the second half? Or where do you stand there now in terms of sort of the midrange for a 20-frac-stage well? Yes.
So maybe for clarity our Bakken well costs have come down significantly.
So last year we were over $11 million a well.
In the first half we've averaged about $10.5 million.
Our current costs are coming at or below $10 million per well and we still see room for improvements.
So we've seen a steady significant decrease in our Bakken D&amp;C cost.
So we're actually quite pleased with where we are with that trend and really still pursuing additional cost savings that we believe we will be below $10 million.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And how do the economics there now stack up to your CO2 plays? Well you've seen our slides so we've kind of consistently stated that we think that our EOR probably is giving us better returns than the Bakken and I think we'd still be there.
Obviously it helps to lower costs.
That's a big factor.
And of course the other part of the factor is we just get a lot better pricing for our oil on EOR than we do at the Bakken.
But we would still be -- we would still see returns in EOR quite a bit better than Bakken as far as rate of return.
We'll go next to the line of Neal Dingmann with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the Bakken.
On the well cost coming down is it besides efficiencies? Or I know a lot of people earlier had a number of fracs and different things that were already contracted.
Now do you have any longer-term contracts that are expiring that can make cost come down? Or is it more just efficiencies that will continue to push the cost down? It's primarily efficiencies that results from moving to pad drilling but also we've really improved our efficiency in particular just we call it avoiding shell strikes that not hitting shells that require us to do additional work on the well.
So that's improved greatly.
We have renegotiated some of our service contracts and so that's starting to manifest itself in the cost.
We continue to have those discussions with our service providers.
I don't know that we have a big contract that's upcoming that's going to have a sizable shift with our -- its expiry.
Really for us there is no magic bullet.
We look at every piece of the puzzle related to our drilling and completion costs and want to be excellent at each one of them.
And so that really is what's driving our cost reduction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you anticipate going after some Three Forks in different benches there or will you leave that to others for now and just kind of continue as you've been drilling? Well we are drilling the Three Forks extension and most of our wells for the latter part of this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then -- okay I'm sorry? Well we haven't really tested the second or third.
So we'll [indiscernible] ...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was what I was getting at I guess.
We're watching the industry on that I guess.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly over -- you mentioned the Jackson Dome I think adding that rig that it -- because of the type of drilling that you're doing over it won't add to the reserves.
With that second rig though what can we expect? A bit of an increase just on the production side with the -- because the CO2 for the remainder of the year? And then would -- is there idea of maybe adding a third rig over there? Well what we're really doing is we're building CO2 volumes for next year and for the future.
So that's first and foremost.
It takes a while to get it and get them online so it's really in 2013 that you'll see the CO2 really increased.
And then we don't -- we also are gaining efficiencies on our drilling in the Jackson Dome area and so we've done that too.
So I don't think you'll see us go above a 2-rig program into the future.
And let's make that clear.
I want to just make sure -- it's because we think we can get to the volumes that are required with the existing wells that we have scheduled to be drilled.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then just lastly Phil you all have been pretty disappointed on the hedging strategy.
Will you kind of continue just as far as percentage going forward given the I guess continued commodity volatility out there? Yes.
We're trying -- well I guess our philosophy is to try to hedge to 12 to 18 months out.
And as you've noted we have hedges all the way through the end of '13.
So we'll continue with that philosophical concept I guess.
We do try to be opportunistic though and to put layer in more hedges when prices are high and kind of watch it when prices come down a little.
So that's one reason we haven't put any in place the last month or 2 is oil has been a little bit weaker.
So we're patient.
We're -- we think we're very well protected through the end of '13 so we'll kind of watch for maybe an uptick in prices and layer on some more.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about some of the constraints you're seeing in Hastings? What's going on there? And what's the bottleneck? And then what sort of production rate does it get constrained? Well the Hastings production is going to be limited by our recycle compression capacity and so we've actually added some additional capacity this year.
So as I mentioned in my comments we'll reach that capacity probably in the third to fourth quarter.
So that will limit the production growth until we add additional compression.
That additional compression is anticipated to be added in the fourth quarter and that will put a boost in production into 2013.
It's really about compression capacity.
We're very pleased with how the reservoir's responding in sort of early stages.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so when you add that is it going to ramp up pretty smoothly into it? Or is it a little bit more like jagged that it's kind of jump a little bit quicker? Well it'll probably be -- there'll probably a step function when we first add the compression and then we'll see kind of steady growth from there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And moving into the Rockies with Bell Creek could you remind me again.
So I think you're targeting first production 2013 and so will injection happen very late this year early into next year? Is that again still the timing? The injection is going to happen early next year.
We have to complete the pipeline and we have to get Lost Cabin on and that will be probably early next year start injections.
And it takes what 30 to 45 days to throw the line or 60 days? Yes that's one of the differences we see with -- between Jackson Dome where you have a Bcf versus 50 million cubic feet a day.
It takes a while to fill 232 miles of 20-inch pipe.
It's going to take about 45 days to fill it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And so that fill starts sometime in early 2013.
And then do you think it's going to be the typical kind of 6 to 9 months before you start seeing some response? Or is it a little bit more unknown in this area? There's always some variability but we would anticipate production in late '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Heidelberg and Tinsley it sounds like the remediations are pretty much done and it appears successful.
Is that a fair statement? Or do we still need to see a little bit more performance into the end of the year? No that's a very fair statement.
We're very pleased with the conformance work done in Heidelberg on conformance.
We continue to monitor that very closely.
Pleased with how that looks.
And at Tinsley recovery as evidenced by the increase in production is in good shape.
LLC Research Division</strong> So all the remediation work at this point is completed.
Is that right? That is correct.
We'll go next to the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Phil what's your view on Bakken oil differentials really to the end of the year? Well that's a tough one because it's been pretty volatile and it seems to change quickly.
We've seen maybe a little bit of an improvement.
Well second quarter was kind of tough and it was largely around March and April.
But -- so we've seen improvement a little bit.
But it's a little hard to forecast.
I guess we tend to kind of look at more long-term trends and I think it's probably in the low to mid-teens.
But it can move around on very minor events because capacity as you know there is not a lot of excess capacity.
Research Division</strong> And then staying in the Bakken and we were talking earlier on the call about the potential on the second and the third benches Three Forks.
Would that prospectivity be to your Cherry area potentially? Yes.
I mean we were -- there have been a few wells drilled there and people are finding oil.
We just really have not done anything ourselves as far as testing that.
So we have plenty of good prospects to do so we're trying to drill some of the better areas.
With prices in the 80s instead of 100 we're trying to obviously maximize our returns so we'll let someone else do some of the experimentation.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly as you look out at some of these big new pet-chem projects which should be coming on in the Gulf Coast in the latter part of the decade to take advantage of lower natural gas prices how could Denbury benefit from that? Because I understand that those particular projects in order to secure an air permit have to have a CO2 solution.
Well we are talking with all of them.
As you know Denbury has quite a reputation for CO2 CO2 inject and we have the sequestration project that we have going on at Hastings once their products comes online.
So I think that we're a leader.
We have a pipeline system.
And so we're talking to many of those because they want to locate or co-locate next to our pipeline systems.
We have a steady stream of people talking to us about different ideas.
It's always hard to forecast which ones are actually going to get built and which ones are just ideas and that's the hard part.
But I think just because of our presence in the Gulf Coast our pipeline infrastructure we have 16 floods being flooded and so forth we are always a little bit of a strategic advantage for those guys because they want to make sure that you can take the CO2 every day of the year.
So that's our strategic advantage.
Forecasting which projects get built and when they'll come on is a little tough.
We have only really publicly counted on 2 of them and that's the Mississippi Power Plant that's under construction and the Air Products addition to the Primero refinery that is also well underway.
So those we feel pretty confident about.
Our next question will come from the line of Hsulin Peng with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is regarding the Bakken production profile.
I was -- can you comment on how we should think about the second half Bakken production? Should it -- will it be -- will it stay around the 15 200 BOE sort of level? Or will it plateau at a -- is it higher? And then how should we think about that going to 2013? As I mentioned I'm not going to give the exact numbers on Bakken's forecast.
But we do expect in the third quarter for production to increase modestly and then probably moderate in the fourth quarter.
That's probably the level of detail we're going to give at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's fine.
Sounds good.
And then second question is regarding just kind of your overall sort of strategy.
You guys seem pretty good about spending within your cash flow and just given the recent volatility in oil price.
In the scenario where oil price is to decline can you talk about the flexibility that you have with your CapEx budgets? How do you rank I mean in terms tertiary projects or Bakken projects? How do you think about that? Well in fact I might encourage you to check out our slide presentation because we have a whole page on that.
We actually think we're very well positioned in a lower-price environment.
One is if need be you can -- well one our Bakken production is for -- the acreage for the most part is held so that gives us a lot of flexibility up there.
And we kind of use the Bakken a little bit of a swing area for CapEx.
So if prices come down further or whatever going into '13 I would expect us to spend less money in the Bakken.
It's generally a little bit lower rate of return and that's one of the areas we would probably slow down a bit.
But it's nice that we have the flexibility.
EOR you have a lot of flexibility too if it comes to that.
And we -- probably in priorities we would probably try to preserve our Gulf Coast EOR program because that's our best way to return projects.
And if we cut something it would probably likely be Bakken and/or slowdown the north EOR program a little bit not Bell Creek and Grieve because they are well underway but maybe some of the other future expansions.
So we're still playing it a little bit by ear.
We haven't come up with a 2013 budget but most likely we will try to make that budget pretty close to projected cash flow at least at that point in time.
We know we are spending a little bit more than cash flow in 2012.
As Mark indicated I think he said bank debt should probably be between $700 million $800 million.
So I don't expect any changes for the rest of '12 kind of regardless of what happens.
We also have floors at 80 so there's kind of a lower limit as to where our prices can go.
But going forward we would try to spend within cash flow.
And I think the swing areas would probably be the Bakken and potentially some of the expansion in the north EOR.
We'll go next to the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just had one question.
As we start looking harder at getting Bell Creek and the other fields up north what's the oil pricing situation up there? Because obviously down in the Gulf Coast it's a great spot and the Bakken obviously not so much.
What does it look like as far as Bell Creek and the other places as we start to get that production next year? Well Bell Creek and CCA have generally had better pricing than the Bakken.
They are below WTI but they generally run between 5 and 10 below whereas the Bakken it is probably on average 10 to 15 below.
Although there are swings in both cases.
So I don't know if I know enough to explain why but they generally have just gotten a little bit better pricing than the Bakken albeit but not as strong as the Gulf Coast.
The Gulf coast is still a lot of LLS pricing.
And so in the Gulf Coast particularly our EOR floods have been running well above NYMEX.
And we'll go next to the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you just run through I guess the number of patterns that you have.
And I guess if you can say the level of -- amount you're injecting into Oyster Bayou Tinsley and Hastings? I don't know if I've got that off the top of my head.
I could get back with you with the details on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
I was just curious how that's going to change as you get the new compression on in Hastings later in the year and just the expansion plans are up for 2013.
The second question I had was then I guess looking at capitalized interest.
Will that taper once Bell Creek starts? Or will it taper once you get the Greencore pipeline construction finished? Part of it -- partially we have Riley Ridge so when that's finished or completed near the end of the year that will have an impact.
Bell Creek will remain capitalized until that comes on production most likely or reserves are booked.
And some of the pipeline may remain -- we'll probably see separately once we go with an operation but there's maybe part of that that continues to be capitalized.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question -- and then I'll follow up offline for that -- the pattern data -- was as you look at the Air Products coming on will -- are the lines from that facility to the fields you're going to use it for or the Green pipeline already in place? And secondarily are the lines directly to the field? Or are the -- are you going to spike that into the pipeline and then into your EOR fields? Well the pipeline to connect Air Products to the Green pipe is not in place.
But we are getting the right of ways and we're getting engineering done.
So our expectations are to have that [indiscernible] they're ready.
It's a very short line.
Yes.
It's very short.
And it would just feed the Green pipeline and then -- but for now it's going to 2 fields Oyster Bayou and Hastings.
Over time that will get allocated as EBIT.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the line of Noel Parks at Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
I also got on a little bit late.
As far as the development plan at Hastings I can't remember exactly how many sort of different phases you had the field divided into.
But how far along are you in terms of progressing through the areas of the field? Well we're just at the beginning.
So we've got multiple years of development that will be on the level of activities that we've had for the past year.
So we just march through Hastings phase to phase at about the same pace that we had over the past 12 to 18 months.
This is what 6- to 8-year development plan.
So it's on track as far as pace of development but it's a multiyear process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you -- I'm just curious as I think about sort of where the projects that as of last year's Analyst Day and you're continuing to build out out there.
How has the labor cost component been as you've been moving forward out there? Well I guess I'm not sure of the context of the question completely.
I mean our labor generally is tough.
I mean it's -- the oil business is very competitive and we've seen -- I don't know.
I guess we're probably running on average maybe a 5% inflation factor but it varies depending on the discipline and some of the professional disciplines are -- it's very much of a bidding war and so that's just a constant battle that we have in attracting and retaining employees.
We have done pretty well I believe in that regard.
Our turnover rate is actually probably low compared to our peers.
I think it's because we -- because of our strategy and obviously we try to make it a great work environment.
But that is a constant issue with us is compensation.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one other thing.
If I remember right was it the East Hastings part of the field where you were interested in ultimately expanding but I think you didn't have much of an interest over there yet.
Are you -- is that a focus in terms of sort of moving forward on the land side there? We are not going to give a whole lot of detail about the land strategy but East Hastings is still prospected to us and we're considering that as prospective development further once we finish with West Hastings which is going to keep us busy for a long time.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Sure.
And then just one last thing.
I heard -- I can't remember which operator it was but I heard some rumbling starting of doing some testing of EOR up in the Bakken.
I just wondered if you had been in on that or approached by any of the folks up there because of your expertise in that.
We are aware of the study work that's going on.
We're talking with them about that but that would be the extent of it.
We have no plans to do EOR flooding off Bakken at this point.
There's a lot of oil to recover from primaries at this point.
Yes we will -- while it may be possible we've always kind of felt like it's going to be more efficient more economical to flood some of these big old oil fields.
So that's our first priority.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in queue.
So I will turn it back to Mr.
Rykhoek for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks everybody for your attendance and participation.
Just usually I kind of conclude with upcoming events so I just want to make you aware of those.
Several members of the senior management and I will be at Intercom in a couple of weeks Tuesday August 14 in Denver.
We will be hosting a dinner at the conference the evening of Monday August 13.
So if you're interested in that contact Jack and there will be several managers -- senior management there if you want to ask questions.
Also looking a little bit further ahead Craig and I will be presenting at the Barclays CEO Conference.
That is on Tuesday September 4 in New York.
And we're still debating but we'll probably stay on the East Coast there potentially for a few days and try to talk with several people.
Both of these presentations will be webcast.
Slides will be available.
And as those lastly third quarter -- third quarter 2012 results will be on Tuesday November 6.
So those are kind of the upcoming events.
Thank you everybody for your attendance today.
We look forward to a great 2012.
Thank you.
Thank you and ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be available for replay after 12:30 p.m.
Central Time today running through September 2 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 220095.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning thank you for standing by and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Denbury's Executive Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Jack Collins.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
With me on the today from Denbury are: Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bob Cornelius our Senior Vice President of CO2 Operations.
Before we begin the call let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause the actual result to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's press release all of which are available on our website at www.denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosure on these measures are provided in today's press release.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to Phil.
Thanks Jack and thank you for joining us on Election Day.
Today we're going to focus primarily on third quarter which bottom line I think you'll find are generally in line with expectations.
We'll be looking at 2013 guidance give a full update on our future plans and so forth at our analyst meeting which is next Monday November 12.
We hope you can join us at that.
But if you can't be aware that the presentation will be webcast.
We also will be doing a repeat but a somewhat summarized version of that presentation in New York the morning of Wednesday November 14.
If you'd like to attend either of these meetings and haven't previously registered please contact investor relations or Jack Collins.
As you know this quarter we announced the Exxon Mobil transaction asset sale and exchange that includes our Bakken area asset.
This transaction is on schedule.
We expect it to close around the end of November.
If you recall we'll receive about $1.6 billion in cash and we'll receivable operating interest in 2 future EOR floods located in our core areas Webster and Hartzog Draw.
In addition we will acquire additional CO2 from Exxon's LaBarge Field in Southwestern Wyoming which depending on the form that it takes could reduce those cash proceeds.
We are continuing to pursue opportunities to use the cash proceeds to buy additional oil fields that would be EOR candidates in our 2 areas.
We love to make that part of a like-kind exchange and of course that would reduce our tax leakage.
However it's still too early to know which if any of these potential deals could be consummated.
We have until 45 days after closing to identify any such candidates which means probably about mid-January.
And then we have 180 days after closing the Exxon Mobil deal to close any incremental transaction which would be late May.
If we can't do a like-kind exchange transaction we would initially use the cash proceeds to fully repay our credit facility and we would have cash left over.
Shortly after announcing the Bakken transaction we resumed our share repurchase program and we've added about another 4.6 million shares to our total purchases to date.
To recap that program we have now repurchased nearly 19 million shares or approximately 5% of our outstanding shares and we have an average purchase price of just under $14.50 a share.
We have approximately $230 million of remaining purchase -- repurchases authorized under that $500 million program but as part of the recent bank amendment which was required in order to authorize the Exxon Mobil transaction we increased the total stock repurchases allowed under that agreement by an additional $700 million or a revised total of $1.2 billion.
Bottom line that gives us the flexibility to easily expand our repurchase program beyond the $500 million currently approved by our board.
When we look at our stock repurchase program it's our practice to set aside capital for that program and until we get a little further along we are uncertain how much incremental liquidity we will have from the Exxon Mobil deal.
As such we have intentionally repurchased our stock at a bit of a slow pace during the last month or 2 pending a more definitive answer regarding the magnitude of potential asset purchases.
Shifting gears quickly to the third quarter.
As I mentioned before as you noticed we are on track to continue to deliver on our 2012 plan.
Craig's going to go through the fields in more detail but at a very high level you will note we had a bit of a temporary plateau at some of our tertiary floods this quarter and the continued growth at our newest floods Hastings and Oyster Bayou was basically offset by Hurricane Isaac-related production shut-in.
Fortunately there was no significant damage from the hurricane and production from the shut-in fields has rebounded since then.
I think the most important thing to note is that our tertiary production has resumed its growth averaging around 36 000 barrels per day for the month of October which keeps us on track to finish the year in the upper half of our 2012 guidance.
So in summary our tertiary program's doing well meeting expectations and creating value.
While Mark will cover the specifics the financial results were in line with consensus estimates.
A bit lower than prior quarters due to the impact of lower realized oil prices as that offset the benefit of higher production.
Given the high percentage of production priced in the LLS-based indexes we did sell our oil at a premium again this quarter although it declined about $1 a barrel from last quarter.
However this premium is looking better thus far in Q4 and will improve with the sale of our Bakken assets.
We estimate that if you exclude our Bakken area asset our Q3 premium -- our Q3 premium to NYMEX would have been over $5 a barrel.
With these premium price realizations our heavy focus on crude oil over 90% of our crude being related to oil continued focus on managing operating expenses we continue to have one of the highest operating margins of our peer group.
When you couple our high operating margins with our relatively low finding and development cost the result is one of the best capital efficiency ratios of our peer group.
We don't expect our operating margins to change significantly following the Exxon Mobil transaction as their higher price realizations will be essentially offset by the higher average operating cost.
However our finding and development cost should decrease somewhat resulting in an even better capital efficiency ratio pro forma for the Exxon Mobil trade.
In summary 2012 continues to shape up as a great year for Denbury and we expect to close the year on a strong note.
So with that introduction let's look at more of the details and Mark's going to start with the numbers.
Thanks Phil.
In my comments I'll provide some further analysis of our quarterly results primarily focusing on sequential changes from the second quarter of 2012.
I will also provide some forward-looking guidance for the remainder of 2012 for your financial models.
But I'll stay away from discussing 2013 guidance and that will be covered next week at our Analyst Day.
Our adjusted net income a non-GAAP measure for the third quarter was $127 million or $0.33 per diluted share.
Adjusted net income in the third quarter excludes an after-tax noncash fair value hedging loss of $42 million.
This was down from the second quarter adjusted net income of $138 million or $0.35 per diluted share primarily due to lower oil price realizations and higher lease operating costs.
For the same reasons our adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $350 million for Q3 down slightly from $362 million in Q2.
Total production for the quarter of nearly 73 000 barrels of oil equivalent was roughly 1% higher than second quarter levels.
As indicated in our press release we are keeping our 2012 production estimates unchanged but will expect production to finish in the upper half of the range for both tertiary and total production.
Assuming the Bakken transaction closes at the end of November we would expect to reduce our annual production estimates by about 1 400 BOEs per day.
However the properties we expect to receive in the transaction would add roughly 300 BOEs per day resulting in net decrease of about 1 100 BOEs per day to our annual production estimates.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was about $93 in Q3 down about $2.50 from the second quarter.
About half of this decrease is related to a lower premium to NYMEX on our oil sales which dropped to a positive $0.80 in Q3 from a premium of in excess of $2 in Q2.
All of our tertiary production is in the Gulf Coast region and the majority of it sold on LLS-based indexes.
The average NYMEX price premium for our tertiary production in the third quarter was about $10.60 per barrel compared to a premium of $13.60 per barrel in Q2 with the decrease primarily due to the movement in the LLS price premium.
In the Bakken our oil and NGLs sold at an average discount of $16.40 per barrel to NYMEX in the third quarter which is better than the $20 per barrel discount realized in Q2.
Excluding NGLs we sold our Bakken oil at an average price of about $12.40 per barrel below NYMEX in Q3.
Based on the LLS and Bakken differentials we have seen thus far in the quarter and not taking into account any impact from the Bakken transaction we expect a modest improvement in our average oil differential in Q4.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
We continue to execute a strategy of protecting our oil price downside while retaining upside through costless collars.
We currently have oil collars in place through mid-2014 with most of our floors around $80 per barrel and ceilings at over $100 per barrel on a NYMEX basis.
During the third quarter we restructured most of our oil collar contracts covering the first 3 quarters of 2013.
Overall we increased the average floor price from $70 and $75 per barrel to about $80 per barrel and paid for this by decreasing ceiling prices.
Full details of our hedge positions are shown in our corporate presentation available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our lease operating expense in Q3 was $130 million up $6 million from the prior quarter primarily due to a full quarter of operating expense at Thompson Field and a higher level of workover and maintenance activities.
And on a per BOE basis our total lease operating expense was about $19.50.
Excluding the Bakken area assets our total lease operating expense per barrel would have been nearly $24 per barrel.
For our tertiary operations lease operating expense per BOE averaged $23.50 for the quarter up from $23 in the second quarter primarily due to higher workover activity.
Excluding any impact from the Bakken transaction we continue to expect our total company LOE to be in the low- to mid-$20s on a per BOE basis for the remainder of 2012.
Our G&amp;A expense in Q3 was $38 million in line with our previous guidance and a slight uptick from the second quarter primarily due to incremental headcount which resulted in higher compensation and employee-related costs.
About $9 million of our Q3 G&amp;A expense was stock-based compensation.
For the fourth quarter we expect G&amp;A expense to be between $37 million and $40 million with approximately $8 million to $10 million of that in stock-based compensation.
Our overall DD&amp;A per BOE increased to about $20.50 for the quarter a slight increase from just over $20 in the second quarter.
We expect our DD&amp;A per BOE to decrease moderately after the Bakken transaction due to the reduction in capitalized cost.
Our effective income tax rate for Q3 was in line with expectations with a total rate of approximately 39% and current taxes at roughly 8% of that total.
We expect fourth quarter to be similar to the these levels between 38% and 39% excluding any impact of the Bakken transaction.
Moving on to our capital structure.
Total debt at September 30 was about $3 billion up about $100 million from June 30.
We had $625 million drawn on our $1.6 billion bank line at the end of the quarter also up about $100 million from Q2.
We recently received the required approval from our bank group to complete the Bakken transaction.
In addition to that approval our borrowing base was reaffirmed at $1.6 billion and we modified our bank agreement to increase the total amount that can be returned to shareholders through share repurchases or dividends from $500 million to $1.2 billion.
We continue to believe we have the ability to significantly increase our borrowing capacity if we so desired.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest decreased roughly $4 million from the prior quarter to $38 million due in part to the higher capitalized interest.
Capitalized interest in Q3 was $19 million.
And in Q4 we expect it to range between $18 million and $21 million.
Our capitalization metrics remain strong and our debt-to-capital ratio is approximately 37% and our debt to Q3 annualized adjusted cash flow and EBITDA were at 2.2x and about 1.9x respectively.
Our 2012 capital budget remains $1.5 billion slightly less than 75% of which has been spent through the first 3 quarters.
While we plan to repay borrowings under our bank credit facility with the cash proceeds from the Bakken transaction excluding the impact of that transaction we would project our year-end bank debt to be between $700 million and $800 million.
As Phil mentioned we are continuing to pursue additional acquisitions with the anticipated cash proceeds from the Bakken transaction.
If we have potential acquisitions identified at the time of closing we would escrow some or all of the cash received pending resolution of any like-kind exchange.
That means the cash will be placed in escrow and would not be available for us to immediately reduce bank debt.
That's the end of my comments.
And I'll turn it over to Craig.
Okay.
Thank you Mark and good morning to all.
We'll start by reviewing our core tertiary business.
Tertiary production was about 34 800 barrels per day during the quarter.
That's down slightly from the second quarter.
That's primarily due to the impact of hurricane-related and production shut-ins in the quarter.
Also as mentioned on previous calls our tertiary production growth can sometimes experience some lumpiness depending on the timing of response of new phases of CO2 injection and this past quarter was one where we were waiting on growth from new areas at Delhi.
Let me help you put the third quarter in perspective for the entire year.
We experienced 6% sequential growth in the second quarter of 2012 and tertiary production has increased 12% from the prior year third quarter level.
Looking forward we do expect solid sequential production growth in the fourth quarter as we are seeing response from new patterns at existing floods including Delhi.
So with that as backdrop I'll review a few fields that had material impacts in the third quarter production and that we expect to drive near-term growth.
We'll start with Tinsley.
Tinsley Field production was flat from the second quarter level and that was in line with our expectations for the field production to plateau in the back half of 2012.
As a reminder Tinsley production grew about 12% sequentially in the second quarter.
We do expect fourth quarter production levels at Tinsley to be similar to third quarter as we begin development of that north fault block of the field.
Moving to Delhi.
Delhi's production declined about 200 barrels per day in the third quarter compared to the second quarter levels.
That production decline was due to maintenance and some remediation work combined with a plateau in the field's response.
We have completed all the maintenance and remediation work and have recently seen improved field response which is enabling Delhi's production to resume an upward trend.
We're very pleased with that.
At Delhi production decreased about 100 barrels per day compared to the second quarter and that was in line with our expectations.
Digging a bit deeper at West Heidelberg we continue to see positive signs that our conformance work we completed earlier this year has been successful.
And  at East Heidelberg we're starting to see production response from our new wells in the Christmas zone.
Also at East Heidelberg we're very pleased with our continued Eutaw zone development.
So overall we expect production at Heidelberg to increase modestly in the fourth quarter as additional patterns in East Heidelberg ramp up.
Moving to Oyster Bayou.
Oyster Bayou's production increased over 200 barrels per day for the third quarter to over 1 500 barrels per day.
As mentioned in last quarter's call all the reservoir response characteristics continue to indicate a very good flood.
As we displaced existing water in the reservoir with CO2 and that CO2 moves towards our producing wells it grabs oil and that should increase our oil production.
We're looking at ways to increase our water disposal and CO2 injection at Oyster Bayou to accelerate this process further.
We have seen continued production growth at Oyster Bayou in the fourth quarter and we expect additional growth over the next few years.
At Hastings production increased by over 800 barrels per day from the second quarter to just about 2 800 barrels per day.
Hastings' production continues to respond quite well.
And this bodes very well for the future CO2 floods at Thompson and Webster fields which are close geographically and they are technically similar to Hastings.
We do expect production growth at Hastings to moderate somewhat in the fourth quarter as we reach the capacity of our recycle compression.
Additional compression is anticipated late in the fourth quarter.
Most of our other tertiary fields were either flat or modestly declined.
Many experienced some hurricane-related production downtime in the third quarter.
With their normal decline and hurricane shut-ins production from these fields declined over 7% sequentially.
I'll move now to the Bakken.
Given our pending transaction with Exxon Mobil I'm not going to review Bakken in detail.
But in summary Bakken production grew 8% sequentially as we brought several new drilling pads online during the quarter and we increased our participation in non-operated wells in advance of the Exxon Mobil transaction.
Looking now at our total company.
Production was nearly 73 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and that's approximately a 1% increase compared to the second quarter and this is 9% higher than our 2011 third quarter level.
Moving to operating cost.
Tertiary lease operating cost averaged $23.50 per barrel.
That's a slight increase from Q3 from about $23 in the second quarter driven mainly by an increase in our well work.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 costs were down 6% on a per barrel of oil equivalent basis.
Overall we expect tertiary operating cost to remain near this level in the fourth quarter but to trend lower as production from our newest floods at Hastings and Oyster Bayou ramps up.
Total company operating cost averaged about $19.50 per barrel of oil equivalent in the third quarter.
That's a slight increase compared to the second quarter 2012 and a 10% decrease compared to the third quarter of 2011.
That concludes my remarks and I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Craig.
Good morning to all.
I'll start off with a review of our Gulf Coast area CO2 operations.
At Jackson Dome we produced just over 1 Bcf per day of CO2 during the quarter.
That's up 13% sequentially.
We had 2 drilling rigs operating in the Jackson Dome area during the quarter to develop our CO2 resources for use in the Gulf Coast areas floods.
The wells drilled during 2012 are primarily right wells so it is unlikely that we'll booking additional proved reserves at Jackson Dome this year.
However with these new wells coming online our CO2 production from the field recently reached a new daily record high of just over 1.1 Bcf per day.
Now in addition to the natural CO2 we continue to make progress on securing future CO2 supply from man-made or anthropogenic sources to increase our Gulf Coast CO2 volume.
Industry emitters are starting to realize that CO2 oil recovery offers a proven method of storing man-made CO2 underground while boosting domestic oil production.
Also our existing CO2 pipeline transportation system provides a meaningful strategic advantage in securing future anthropogenic sources of CO2 along the Gulf Coast.
Construction of 2 industrial facilities in the Gulf Coast providing us anthropogenic CO2 remain on track.
Air Products' steam reform -- steam methane reformer located near Port Arthur Texas is expect to be online by the end of the first quarter of 2013.
Now that will provide us with approximately 50 million cubic feet a day for use at our Hastings tertiary operations.
Also Mississippi Powers' integrated combined cycle power plant should be completed during 2014 and that could provide up to 115 million cubic feet a day of CO2 to our Mississippi tertiary operations.
In addition to these 2 sources we are also discussing additional offtake agreements with sponsors of several existing or proposed facilities in the Gulf Coast region.
Of note Leucadia's Lake Charles clean energy recently announced they entered into long-term commercial offtake agreements for their proposed gasification facilities.
The Leucadia plant could provide us approximately 200 million cubic feet a day of CO2 by the end of 2018.
I think I'll move now to the Rocky Mountain CO2 operations.
We are pleased to report the construction of our first major CO2 pipeline in the Rockies is nearing completion.
The 232-mile Greencore pipeline will connect our source of CO2 at ConocoPhillips' Lost Cabin processing facility to our Bell Creek oilfield.
We expect the pipeline to be completed on schedule and on budget.
The total capital cost is at the midpoint of our originally estimated capital range of about $275 million to $325 million.
Construction activity at the Bell Creek oilfield is well underway and we expect to start injecting CO2 into the field in the first quarter of 2013.
We expect to obtain additional CO2 supply from Exxon Mobil's Shute Creek facility and we are working to secure a pipeline interconnect between our Greencore pipeline to the pipeline that transports CO2 from Exxon Mobil's Shute Creek facility.
This pipeline interconnect would significantly reduce the cost and timing of delivery of CO2 from Shute Creek to Bell Creek and future Hartzog Draw flood.
It would also allow us to potentially defer an expansion of our Riley Ridge facility beyond the plant's facility to process a raw gas stream of around 200 million cubic feet per day.
Now moving to the Riley Ridge gas processing facility we identified issues related to design and construction of the plant which prompted us to change the plant's general contractor.
But our facilities team is working diligently to correct the issues identified.
But we now expect first natural gas and helium production around mid-2013.
This is about 6 months later than we most recently estimated.
The delay of this facility has no impact on our plans to construct a carbon dioxide sweetening facility near Riley Ridge to separate the CO2 from the gas stream and then ultimately a pipeline could connect the facility to our Rocky Mountain oilfields in the second half of this decade.
We recently commenced the permitting process for that sweetening plant and the attached pipeline system.
Now as to the Rocky Mountain anthropogenic CO2 DKRW Advanced Fuels recently announced they signed a construction contract for their proposed coal-to-Liquids facility.
The DKR plant could provide our Rocky Mountain operations nearly 100 million cubic feet a day of CO2 in the second half of the decade.
So in conclusion our CO2 supply and transportation operations are performing well and expected to continue to meet the needs of our expanding tertiary oil production operations.
With that I think I'll turn it over to Jack.
Okay thank you Bob.
Tom that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get an update on the compressor installations at Hastings.
What sort of additional capacity is being put in there towards the end of this year with potentially additional plans for next year? Could you walk us through that and just provide a little bit more color on what's left to do there and sort of the timing and capacity that we could see? This is Bob Cornelius.
We have a compressor that is now in place and we are making the final connections to that and we're working on the electricity instrumentation on that.
Really hope to have that compressor up and running by the first week in December so that should help us as Craig pointed out to continue to produce an increase of production at Hastings.
As to the first quarter we're looking at some other compression into the first and second quarter to continue to maintain our recycle capacity as the field grows.
Research Division</strong> Okay thank you.
And Phil just back to the acquisitions that you all might be looking at.
I know that you have until January 15.
I guess I'm wondering would there be any reason right now to look for an acquisition that might be a bit larger than would necessitate for sort of tax efficiency here? Any reason to be a little bit more opportunistic now and just sort of look at doing a larger package and just financing that through considering the strength of the balance here.
Well if you're asking could it exceed the proceeds from Exxon I think that's almost a certain no.
We are talking to a few people.
It's hard to say yet whether they'll be successful or not so we hesitate to even guide expectations I guess.
It's kind of a limited group of people that have fields that we want and then of course unfortunately we can't negotiate with ourselves it takes the other side.
So we're working on it.
We do have a little bit of time.
Last call I think we couched it it's probably not likely to be large.
So that -- that there is a little bit in there that would be a little bit larger but definitely would never exceed the proceeds and it likely will be quite a bit less.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And if I could just do one more Phil.
I'm wondering if you could give us any -- if you could put any probability around actually executing a more favorable structure for the contract for CO2 purchase from Exxon to minimize tax leakage.
What would be the probability on getting something like that done? What are the impediments and how much do you think that could save you? Well we're working diligently on that.
And I think that's actually in both of our interest because it actually helps Exxon too.
So both companies I believe are motivated to make that the preferred way of contracting -- or obtaining it's not actually a contract that would be a mineral interest in the property of obtaining additional CO2 from LaBarge.
I believe still if we go down that route it probably is an upfront payment of $200 million to $250 million.
And so it would save tax on a portion thereof related to those -- that cash out of pocket.
But that's what we're still working on.
As to the impediments it's just a little bit more complicated I guess than a simple purchase contract because you need to consider a processing agreement because obviously they would be processing our gas.
You need to hand over gas imbalances and that sort of thing.
So all those agreements are in process.
We're optimistic that that will be the route that we go and I think we're both striving toward that but it is a bit more complicated than just a simple purchase contract.
And our next question today comes from the line of Robert Bellinski representing Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering you mentioned trying to secure the pipeline interconnect at Shute Creek.
I was just wondering how much does owning those CO2 volumes actually impact your ability to secure that transportation versus just a purchase agreement? I don't think that matters.
I mean the point is we will have incremental CO2 available to us from Exxon.
We already had some CO2 available for Grieve Field and potentially a little extra over what we needed at Grieve.
But the trick is of course to get it into our pipeline.
So we're pursuing the interconnect optimistic that that will come into fruition.
But if it doesn't then in order to get those extra volumes to Bell Creek or Hartzog we would have to have our line in place which is unfortunately probably takes a few years to get that done.
And next we'll go to the line of Michael Scialla with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked after you did the -- announced the Exxon Bakken transaction about potentially reordering the tertiary projects and I realize the deal hasn't closed yet.
But any further thoughts along those lines in particular Hastings is performing looks like Thompson and Webster might be candidates to move up in the pecking order but I just wanted to see what youre thinking there is now? We'll tell you next Monday.
We actually haven't looked at the order and we'll go through what the proposed order is and couple that with 2013 guidance and maybe even a little color beyond that but we plan to cover that next week.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Probably some of the other questions I have I'm probably looking at the same response.
But in terms of the Jackson Dome not adding much there this year in terms of reserves.
But next year you had also talked at the -- during the transaction that you do plan to do some additional drilling there.
I just want to see if you have further thoughts along those lines for next year.
Well yes it is a little bit of the same response because we'll also obviously cover CO2 sources next week.
I mean I think it's in short safe to say we probably will do a bit more drilling there than what we have historically.
But we do -- have had some encouraging news on the anthropogenic sources also for instance as Bob mentioned in his prepared remarks the Lake Charles plant Leucadia put out a press release a week or so ago.
So we're kind of encouraged that there may be some supplements to our natural source but we have a plan -- I guess the short answer we have a plan with or without those man-made sources and we will show you some of that next week.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the first injection at Bell Creek you've been guiding that in early 2013.
The only thing standing in the way there construction of the Greencore pipeline or is there anything else that could potentially push that one way or the other? The completion of Greencore pipeline.
Also there is a small facility at the tailgate of ConocoPhillips' Lost Cabin plant that have to be finished.
That work is underway.
But that part has to be finished so we can take the gas from -- that ConocoPhillips can deliver the gas to us and at the beginning of our pipeline.
Still on track we expect that to happen but that's still yet to be completed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then last one for me.
Say you don't get much or anything done for that matter in terms of like-kind exchange would you anticipate using all the excess cash the proceeds from the deal to repurchase stock? It looks like you're gearing up to do that if I'm reading you correctly.
Well we'd likely use some of it.
I mean it all goes somewhat depending on the price.
I mean I would like to do an asset deal but obviously it needs to be a reasonable price.
And we think our stock is a good bargain at this point but that all depends on where oil prices go and what our stock does.
So it's a little hard to say or answer that we'd spend it all for stock because of a whole bunch of conditions on that.
And the one step that makes that a little easier is we now have bank approval to spend more so it makes it a little quicker for our board or for us to increase the stock purchases.
But I think both of those just depends on pricing really.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Oatman representing SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question also kind of centers around the thoughts on the additional share repurchases.
Can you walk me through your thought process how you weigh share repurchases versus reinvesting into CO2 fields.
And then the formalities needed from the board to increase the authorization on the one hand and then also how a repurchase compares in your mind with a potential special dividend or instituting a regular common dividend? Well you had a lot of parts to your question there.
First of all we always -- if you look at what we've done with stock repurchase we want to have it funded.
So if you recall a year or so ago we took a little bit out of CapEx through 2012 and used some of that money to fund some repurchases.
Depending on what happens with the other asset purchases and so forth in this Exxon deal we obviously have increased liquidity so we may have some additional funds but that's foremost I guess in our mind is we need to have a way to pay for it.
And then secondly of course like I mentioned before it depends on where the stock price is where oil price is and so forth whether it's more economic to buy stock or to expand floods.
Where our stock has recently traded which is we believe below proved PV-10 stock looks like it's an attractive purchase.
And it's difficult for us to match that return by investing in our projects because if you can buy stock substantially below PV-10 Value that's a pretty good deal.
Just a side note that's kind of how we purchase Encore was essentially for about proved PV-10.
And of course oil price was a little less at that point in time it was in the 70s.
But we probably -- in fact it's in our slide show and we'll probably touch on it again next week.
But we probably have made 50% on that $4 billion deal and we've not yet booked anything at EOR related properties like CCA or Bell Creek.
So that was a very attractive deal and we spent $4 billion kind of on that basis.
So that's kind of how we look at it.
But it's all definitely relative to where the stock is and where oil goes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on dividend versus share repurchase.
Do you have any thoughts there? Well I think the issue on dividend is you probably -- you don't want to start dividends unless you know you can sustain it for indefinitely.
And again we're getting in a little bit into future guidance which we'll cover more next week.
But we still think we conceptually have a few years where we will be spending cash flow but we expect our free cash to really start to be generated more in the second part of this decade.
And so we think it might be premature to do dividends today.
Probably something that we think could be a strong possibility in the future but we want to get to the point where we have free cash in the foreseeable future.
Next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> I understand that you will give us some more guidance on Monday but I was wondering if you can kind of talk about the key drivers for tertiary production growth in '13? Because based on what I -- I mean for Oyster Bayou and Hastings by now you're around 4 300 and I know from the -- your presentation slide it can peak out combined to somewhere around 20 but understand that it takes a few years to get there.
So I'm just trying to get a little bit of sense as to how you will ramp in '13 and how other fields will contribute to '13 as well? I think I'm going to have to ask you to wait until Monday for that one.
Research Division</strong> All of it? Maybe there's nothing to talk about next week.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well how about this.
So your average CAGR for tertiary is around 13% to 15% and based on my numbers right now it seems like probably going to be below that average for 2013.
Is that fair? Sorry I'm not going to go there on that one either.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So then my other question is helium production.
I know you said that it's delayed for about 6 months until mid-2013.
How material -- can you just remind us how material that is in terms of the production level and the pricing again for helium? Well the pricing for helium is around $70 an Mcf.
Of course gas is what it is.
What's the BOE number Bob? It's at about -- well we expect it to -- the plant is going to -- it may take a few months to ramp up to this volume but the initial capacity of the plant is 100 million a day of raw gas and that translates into methane of about 1 500 BOEs a day of natural gas.
There is a planned expansion of that plant to take it to 200 million a day of raw gas but that expansion is probably at least 1.5 years off.
We need to drill a couple more wells.
It takes about 2 years to drill the wells and so it's going to take us a little while to get to that next step up so that's probably what '13 probably '14 or '15.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay so '14 '15 and how much for percentage of that is helium? Oh helium is about 0.5% or 0.6% of that stream so when I quoted 100 million a day that's the raw 88s [ph] volume and it'd be 0.5% or 0.6% of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
So it doesn't -- although in the numbers it doesn't seem like it's very material right in terms of cash flow generation? It's not very material.
Well it isn't real big to our company in all honesty.
And we've really purchased as you know Riley Ridge for the CO2.
But it does produce a revenue stream.
And the helium while quite small relative to production is a pretty large percent of the revenue particularly where natural gas is today.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then I guess the last question in general conceptually is it fair to assume that you plan to live within cash flow for 2013? Well I know you're determined to get 2013.
Research Division</strong> Is there any high low? But I think we have I'll repeat we've said publicly that we want to look at being at least close to cash flow depending on what oil price you assume.
And again I'm going to defer the precise numbers until next week.
And we'll go to the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Is there a better opportunity to acquire oilfields that you can flood in the Rockies or is it easier to do that in the Gulf Coast or are they both just equally hard? Well I think it's just who the potential willing seller might be.
It's not that -- obviously the area hasn't anything to do with it it's just who owns them.
So I don't -- I'd say they're equally hard.
Just because we found it a little bit difficult for people to want let go of oil oil-producing assets.
I think they like the cash flow and they like having that higher percentage of oil in their portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Are you seeing more sort of potential assets for sale in the Rockies than in the Gulf Coast? We're talking to a few and I guess all I can say is there's a couple in both.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on Riley Ridge I just want to make sure I heard it right.
Are you looking now at -- when do you think you're going to be able to get the CO2 to come out of that field? I thought I heard maybe 2015 or beyond I just wanted to make sure I heard that right.
No that's not correct.
There is a planned expansion of the plant increasing the volume from 100 million a day to 200 million a day of raw gas.
But CO2 while we're working on the sweetener plant and we're working on the pipeline and we have submitted plans et cetera the goal -- the current plan is that would be in place around 2017.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to make sure I heard that right.
And then just maybe for Mark on the credit facility as we go through and obviously there's some moving parts here in getting the deal done with Exxon on anything that you may add.
Do you see anything happening on the credit facility as far as the size of it? I mean I know you could probably pay some of that down at least but do you see the size of it moving around at all? No I think we're in good shape for where we want to be right now.
So we got plenty of cushion.
We could increase the borrowing base if we wanted to but we haven't felt necessary to that.
And we have a question from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question that hopefully won't give us too much of an insight into 2013.
But you said capitalized interest was almost $20 million for the quarter I assume with the Greencore pipeline we'll see capitalized interest drop down quite a bit next year? That would be correct.
We'll probably -- at this point out I expect that we'll capitalize it through the end of the year while we're getting the system pressured up and running.
But yes that will drop off next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
And then secondarily I guess Craig with Tinsley and Hastings how many patterns are currently up at both those fields and how many more are left to kind of be brought online as you expand the CO2 footprint out for both of those? I don't think I have those numbers at the tip of my tongue but we'll review that in a bit more detail next week.
At Tinsley we've got a couple more years of development there for the north fault block in that area.
And in Hastings we've got multiple years of additional pattern development that we'll give you more detail on that next week.
But we'll be doing that for multiple years and we just -- as we progress geographically across our reservoir.
Tinsley is near to maturity.
Basically we're going to expand in the north area.
We're trying to actually accelerate them a little bit.
So that's the main focus regarding next year but after that Tinsley is just about developed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So shorter term then as you said at Hastings it's going to be looking for the recycle and compression and then you'll be -- once you get that you'll start kind of go into additional patterns in Hastings? That's correct.
We'll talk about it next week but we'll continue to add recycle compression at Hastings as we put additional patterns on and as the production grows and CO2 recycle volumes increase with it.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of Noel Parks representing Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Could you just go over again what you said in the initial comments about what was happening out at Heidelberg.
I think basically you were talking about some activity at East Heidelberg and if you could just go over that again? Yes we're expanding the development of the Eutaw zone in Heidelberg and we're expanding the development of the Christmas zone in Eutaw -- I'm sorry in East Heidelberg.
The Christmas zone is relatively new to us.
The Eutaw zone has been our primary zone of production for quite some time there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second zone you said it's the Christmas is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I wasn't familiar with that.
It think that's probably what caught my attention.
Is it just an adjacent zone to the Eutaw? That's correct.
That's just part of the stacked pay horizon within the Heidelberg Field.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean was that included from the beginning of the estimate of potential on the field? Yes.
Research Division</strong> It was? Yes.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Collins I'll turn the call back over to you for closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
And thank you again everyone for your attendance and participation today.
Updating you quickly on our upcoming investor event.
As you heard mentioned several times on today's call we will be holding our annual Analyst Day in Houston this Monday November 12.
At the meeting management will provide a detailed operational update and provide initial guidance for 2013.
The presentation will begin at 1 p.m.
Central time and will be webcast.
The slides for the presentation webcast will be accessible through the Investor Relations section of our website.
In addition Phil and Craig will be giving a recap of the Analyst Day presentation in New York next Wednesday November 14 starting at 8 a.m.
Eastern.
Please contact me or someone in the Investor Relations group if you are interested in attending either event.
Also Phil will be presenting at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Energy Conference on Tuesday November 13 at about 3:00 Eastern and the slides and webcast to this presentation will also be accessible on our website.
Lastly you can mark on your calendars that we'll be reporting fourth quarter 2012 results on Thursday February 21 2013 and we'll hold our conference call that day at 10 a.m.
Central.
Thanks again for joining us and enjoy the rest of your day.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Fourth Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
My name is Lori and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Okay thank you Lori and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on what's a busy earnings day.
So with me on today's call from Denbury are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin the call let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which have been posted to our website at www.denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosures on these measures are provided in today's news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Thank you Jack.
I'm happy to report that our Q4 financial results were well ahead of consensus expectations largely driven by strong tertiary production growth and an improved NYMEX oil premium ending the highly productive year on a strong note.
Craig's going to review tertiary production in more detail but in summary we're very pleased with how we finished the year.
This strong fourth quarter gives us a great start for 2013 and makes us optimistic about our full year tertiary production outlook.
For those of us that follow -- for those of you that follow us regularly you know the last 12 months have been a very active period for Denbury.
I thought I might quickly highlight some of these recent successes.
On the transaction front we've completed our announced deals with over $4 billion of aggregate value if you count both the purchase and the sale.
So what's the net result of that? First we sharpened our strategic focus on enhanced oil recovery where we have a strategic and competitive advantage.
Today nearly everything we own is either a current EOR flood or is part of planned future EOR operations.
Secondly we increased our unproven EOR potential by nearly 210 million barrels which even with the Bakken divestiture results in a net increase in our unproven potential reserves.
Further they are now EOR potential barrels which we believe will add more value to Denbury than the potential barrels that we sold.
We now have over 650 million barrels unbooked EOR potential in our inventory which gives us more than a decade of growth and will create substantial value for our shareholders.
Third we nearly replaced the production of the sold assets with that from the acquired or to be acquired assets.
Fourth we exchanged proved reserves with a high proved undeveloped component for reserves that are nearly all proved developed which significantly increases free cash flow.
To be a little more specific the Bakken assets had over $1.7 billion of future development cost associated with them and the acquired assets have less than $100 million of future development costs.
Fifth we have increased our Rocky Mountain CO2 reserves by 1.3 trillion cubic feet and up to 115 million a day of deliverability.
Lastly we did all this in a tax-efficient basis.
Our latest announcement the pending transaction with Conoco wherein we're buying their CCA assets for $1.05 billion allowed us to defer about $400 million of taxes gives us nearly 11 000 barrels a day of oil production and 60 million to 80 million barrels of potential EOR reserves.
It increases our interest in an area that was already our largest in the Rocky Mountain region which will allow us to benefit from economies of scale of CCA and leverage our planned CO2 transportation infrastructure.
In fact if you'll note all of the acquired future EOR fields are very close to existing or planned pipeline infrastructure allowing us to amortize that cost over millions of additional barrels improving the returns on these incremental acquisitions.
So bottom line this collection of M&amp;A transactions could work out probably even better than we'd hoped in our company transforming transactions.
If you want more details on the transaction I encourage you to review our updated investor presentation.
Another notable recent development is we began receiving our first man-made or anthropogenic CO2 from Air Products in Texas.
CO2 deliveries are expected to approach 15 million cubic feet per day when their second train comes on later this year.
This project illustrates our unique ability to use and store anthropogenic CO2 that would otherwise be released to the atmosphere.
We're highly encouraged by the opportunities we've seen to further expand our anthropogenic CO2 in the coming years.
On the finance side we recently issued $1.2 billion of senior sub notes with a coupon rate of 4 5/8%.
We're told that this interest rate was the lowest on record for a noninvestment grade sub note offering which illustrates the market's confidence in our company and our outlook.
A few weeks ago we released our proved reserves which Craig's going to touch on in a minute.
One number I'd like to point out from that report is that our proved PV-10 at year end inclusive of the pending CCA transaction with Conoco was about $11 billion.
If you subtract our net debt and divide it by our shares you'll find a pretax proved net asset value of over $20 a share.
So to put it another way if you were to purchase our stock today you'd effectively get our 700 million barrels of unproved reserve potential for free reserve potential that will give us consistent production reserve growth for more than a decade.
Also given the unique characteristics of our strategy after 2016 we expect our capital expenditures to begin to decline gradually over time while production continues to grow thereby generating growing amounts of free cash flow.
So although our stock has recently performed well we believe it still remains a bargain and continues to trade below peers on a net asset value basis.
It's been an impressive 12 months and we are now situated to focus on what we do best CO2 Enhanced Oil Recovery which we believe offers one of the lowest risk and most compelling rates of return in the oil and gas industry.
So going back briefly to Q4.
As you'll note our adjusted net income and adjusted cash flow were up were both up on a sequential basis even though we lost some production in the month of December with the Bakken sale.
We had strong growth in tertiary operations with 8% sequential growth and perhaps maybe a bit of a surprise were our strong oil price realizations.
With our increased exposure to Gulf Coast oil prices following the Bakken exchange our average realized oil price premium reached a new record level in Q4.
With these premium price realizations with our 90%-plus crude oil production stream and continued focus on controlling costs our operating margins have been one of the highest in our peer group and we expect this to remain the case going forward.
But let's have Mark and Craig give you more details on the numbers.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
In my comments I'll provide some further analysis of our Q4 results primarily focusing on the sequential change and results from the third quarter of 2012.
I will also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you update your financial models.
Our adjusted net income a non-GAAP measure for the fourth quarter was $137 million or $0.36 per diluted share.
This was up from third quarter adjusted net income of $127 million or $0.33 per share primarily due to higher oil price realizations lower DD&amp;A and lower average diluted share count.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $316 million for Q4 down from $350 million in Q3.
However if you adjust for the higher current taxes in Q4 which was all related to the Bakken exchange transaction our adjusted cash flow from operations would have been $358 million which was a slight increase from the Q3 number.
Total production for the quarter was 70 116 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Excluding the Bakken property sold production was 60 052 BOE per day an increase of 7% sequentially driven primarily by the tertiary production growth and new properties acquired in the Bakken exchange.
Tertiary production averaged 37 550 barrels per day in Q4 a new record and it averaged 35 200 barrels per day for the full year 2012.
Our annual tertiary production level put us squarely in the upper half of our 2012 guidance range.
As indicated in our news release we are keeping our total 2013 production estimates unchanged at the range of 68 700 BOE per day to 71 700 BOE per day which assumes the recently announced CCA acquisition closes near the end of the first quarter of 2013.
Please note that estimated production from the CCA acquisition will not be included in our financial results until the transaction closes.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was up about $4.50 from the third quarter to about $97.60.
We sold our oil at an average price of $9.43 above NYMEX in Q4 which was significantly better than the $0.80 premium in Q3.
On a pro forma basis if we were to exclude the Bakken assets from our Q4 numbers our average realized oil premium would have increased to $11.65 per barrel.
All of our current tertiary production is in the Gulf Coast region with the majority of it being sold on LLS-based indexes.
The average NYMEX price premium for our tertiary production in the fourth quarter was $15.57 with many fields receiving premiums above $17.50 per barrel.
Our Rocky Mountain region pricing also improved significantly as the differential for our Cedar Creek Anticline production improved from the prior year quarter's discount of roughly $9 per barrel to an average very small discount this quarter.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 we sold approximately 44% of our crude oil at prices based on LLS index prices.
Approximately 22% of price is tied to a combination of LLS and other indexes and the balance of that price is based on various other indexes tied to NYMEX primarily in the Rocky Mountain region.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
We continued to execute a strategy of protecting our oil price downside while retaining upside through costless collars which are based on NYMEX oil prices.
During the fourth quarter we layered on collars for the back half of 2014 with a floor price of $80 and a weighted average ceiling of $97.50.
Full details of our hedge positions are shown in the updated investor presentation we posted to our website this morning.
Our lease operating expense was $139 million up roughly $9 million from the prior quarter primarily due to higher workover costs and increased CO2 purchases for our newest floods at Oyster Bayou and Hastings.
On a per BOE basis our lease operating expense was $21.61 in Q4 as compared to $19.49 in Q3 with the increase primarily due to the sale of the Bakken assets during Q4 which had a lower operating cost.
On a pro forma basis if you exclude the Bakken assets for the entire fourth quarter our lease operating expense per BOE would have been $24.33.
For our tertiary operations lease operating expense per BOE averaged about $22.60 for the quarter an improvement from the $23.50 in the prior quarter.
With the sale of our Bakken assets we expect our lease operating expense per BOE to average in the mid-20s range for 2013 a little higher than our Q4 pro forma rate of $24.33.
It's important to note that this rate does not include taxes other than income marketing and CO2 operating costs which you'll need to consider separately.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $35 million in Q4 down from $38 million in the third quarter.
Our fourth quarter G&amp;A expense about $6 million was stock-based compensation.
For 2013 we expect G&amp;A expense to be in the upper 30s to mid-$40 million range each quarter with approximately $7 million to $10 million of that in stock-based compensation.
I would expect our first quarter to be towards the higher end of that range due to bonus and long-term incentive payouts.
Our overall DD&amp;A per BOE decreased to $18.20 in Q4 from $20.45 in Q3 primarily due to the Bakken exchange.
As a result of the Bakken exchange our depletable cost decreased and a significant amount of future development cost related to the Bakken were removed from our calculation.
With the completion of the Greencore pipeline and the expected closing of the CCA acquisition we expect our DD&amp;A rate to move back into the $20 to $21 per BOE range in 2013.
Our effective income tax rate for Q4 was approximately 41% above our estimated statutory rate of 38.5%.
This was primarily due to additional state income tax expense recognized as a result of the Bakken transaction and the impact of changes in our estimate of certain tax benefits.
For 2013 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be around 38.5% to 39% with current taxes representing roughly 15% to 20% of total taxes.
However current taxes could be somewhat higher depending on the final adjusted purchase price for the CCA acquisition.
We will incur incremental cash taxes on the CCA acquisition if our adjusted purchase price is less than the $1.05 billion put into the qualified trust account.
Since the operating cash flow between January 1 and the closing date will result in a purchase price adjustment we believe this could result up to $10 million in incremental cash taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Total debt at December 31 was approximately $3.1 billion in line with third quarter levels.
We had $700 million drawn on our $1.6 billion bank line at the end of the quarter and nearly $100 million of unrestricted cash.
With our recent issuance of $1.2 billion of 4 5/8% senior subordinated notes we intend to redeem all $651 million of our 9-plus percent 2016 notes and use the remainder to repay the bank debt.
By March 31 we expect to have redeemed all but $38 million of our 2016 notes which we are not able to redeem until early May.
This was a significant transaction for us as it allowed us to more than cut in half the interest rate of $651 million of our debt to about 4.6% from a weighted average rate of about 9.7%.
After considering the premiums to early retire these notes we anticipate we will have roughly $500 million available to pay down our bank debt.
We also expect that we will have a charge in the first quarter of approximately $45 million related to the early redemption of the 2016 notes with approximately $10 million of that amount due to the write-off of debt issuance costs.
Based on our current assumptions for 2013 cash flows and capital expenditures we would anticipate that our bank debt should be around $100 million to $200 million depending on timing of expenditures and incremental share repurchases in 2013.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest was in line with prior quarter levels of approximately $38 million.
Capitalized interest in Q4 was $20 million.
We expect our capitalized interest to be between $40 million and $45 million for the full year 2013 with estimated quarterly capitalized interest decreasing throughout the year from roughly $15 million in Q1 to $5 million in Q4 depending upon when certain assets are placed in service.
Our capitalization metrics remain solid with debt to capital ratio of approximately 38% and our debt to Q4 annualized adjusted cash flow and EBITDA adjusting for the current quarter tax impact to the Bakken exchange at about 2.1x and 1.9x respectively.
Our 2013 capital budget remains at $1 billion which excludes an estimated $125 million for various items including capitalized interest G&amp;G exploration and development cost and preproduction EOR start-up cost.
Using current oil prices and assumptions we expect to be able to fund our capital expenditures with our cash flow from operations.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased roughly 14.5 million shares of common stock for $226 million or roughly $15.60 per share.
And thus far in the first quarter we have repurchased an additional 3.5 million shares for $60 million or an average of $16.73 per share.
Since the commencement of the share repurchase program in October 2011 we have purchased about 9% of our total shares outstanding which effectively improves our per share metrics by this amount.
Additionally we currently have approximately $250 million remaining under this repurchase program.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Let's start by reviewing our tertiary business which we finished strong in 2012.
Tertiary oil production was 37 550 barrels per day during the fourth quarter an increase of 8% over third quarter levels.
On a full year basis 2012 tertiary production was 14% higher than full year 2011.
There were several key fields that had material impact on our record level of tertiary production in the fourth quarter.
We'll start with Delhi.
Delhi's production was up 37% from third quarter levels as we saw strong production response for the newest phase of that field.
We expect production growth throughout 2013 at Delhi until the reversionary interest is reached in the second half of the year.
At that point our net revenue interest will decrease from 76% to 57%.
As we previously outlined in our Analyst Day presentation we expect this to reduce production in the range of 1 000 to 1 500 barrels per day when the reversion becomes effective.
At Hastings production increased 22% from prior quarter levels as the field responded favorably to additional compression added in the quarter.
We anticipate additional growth of Hastings in 2013.
Oyster Bayou continues to show strong results increasing 19% from prior quarter levels.
We anticipate continued growth in Oyster Bayou in 2013 as that field dewaters and more wells respond to CO2.
Heidelberg's production increased 6% from prior quarter levels as we continue to see positive response from our new wells in the Christmas zone.
Also we're very pleased with our continued development in the Eutaw zone.
Aggregate oil production from the tertiary fields I haven't specifically discussed increased by 1% in aggregate on a sequential quarter basis.
This represents good recovery from some hurricane downtime in the third quarter as well as good results from increased reservoir management in those fields.
With the transactions we've completed or announced over the past 12 months nearly all of our current non-tertiary production now comes from fields we plan to flood with CO2 in the future.
Pressure from our non-tertiary assets excluding production from the Bakken area assets sold during that period increased by about 6% sequentially to 22 502 barrels per day.
This increase is almost entirely driven by the production added from the fields we acquired from ExxonMobil in December while production from our other fields was nearly flat with the prior quarter.
Let's move now to lease operating expenses.
During the fourth quarter operating cost for our tertiary properties averaged $22.59 per barrel.
That's an improvement from the $23.50 per barrel in the third quarter.
The reduction's primarily due to increased production which more than offset the additional cost related to operating new tertiary floods at Hastings and Oyster Bayou.
Let's move now to year-end reserves.
We announced on February 4 our year-end 2012 crude oil and gas reserves were 409 million barrels of oil equivalent.
This excludes the estimated 42 million barrels of oil equivalent and proved reserves we will get from the pending CCA acquisition.
Proved reserve additions during 2012 were 114 million barrels of oil equivalent with roughly half of our reserve adds coming from CO2 EOR operations at Hastings and Oyster Bayou fields.
Our reserves are 80% liquids and 60% proved developed.
49% of our proved reserves are attributable to our CO2 EOR operations.
And nearly all of our reserves not currently attributed to CO2 EOR operations are in fields that have planned future CO2 EOR activities.
The estimated PV-10 value of our proved reserves at December 31 2012 was $9.9 billion or a $0.7 billion decline from the prior year level.
That decline was expected and is due to this impact of our strategic sale of properties during the year and the impact of lower oil and natural gas prices which more than offset increases from additional tertiary reserves and acquired properties.
The year-end 2012 PV-10 value of our proved reserves attributable to our tertiary oil activities was $6.8 billion.
That's a $1.1 billion or 19% increase from the prior year level.
It's important to note that these year-end PV-10 values do not include the PV-10 value of the pending CCA acquisition which is currently estimated at $1.1 billion.
So on a pro forma basis we estimate that the CCA acquisition will increase our PV-10 Value to approximately $11 billion.
Additionally our estimated proved CO2 reserves at year-end 2012 increased 8% to 9.6 trillion cubic feet.
Of these total CO2 reserves 6.1 Tcf were in the Gulf Coast region and 3.5 Tcf were in the Rocky Mountains region.
Our acquisition of roughly 1/3 of Exxon's CO2 reserves in the LaBarge Field added approximately 1.3 Tcf to our Rocky Mountain CO2 reserves.
Now let's move to a brief review of our Gulf Coast EOR CO2 supply operations.
In Jackson Dome we produced approximately 1 billion cubic feet per day of CO2 during the quarter.
The wells drilled during 2012 were primarily rate wells which is why our proved reserves declined in Jackson Dome for the year.
Looking into 2013 we have 5 wells on the drilling schedule with 2 of those being development wells and the 3 other wells could potentially add reserves.
We continue to make progress on securing future CO2 supply from man-made sources and we're proud to say we recently began receiving CO2 from Air Products out of Port Arthur Texas which is being used at our Hastings CO2 flood.
Our existing CO2 pipeline transportation system provides a meaningful strategic advantage in securing future anthropogenic sources of CO2 all along the Gulf Coast.
Looking forward we expect to start taking delivery of CO2 from PCS Nitrogen in the next few months.
Also Mississippi Power's power plant which is currently under construction should be completed during 2014 and could provide up to 115 million cubic feet a day of CO2 to our Mississippi tertiary operations.
In addition to these 2 sources we're also discussing additional offtake agreements with sponsors at several existing or proposed facilities in the Gulf Coast region.
Let's move to our Rocky Mountain CO2 operations.
We're pleased to report the construction of our first major CO2 pipeline in the Rockies was completed late last year.
The initial 232-mile segment of Greencore pipeline connects the CO2 coming from ConocoPhillips' Lost Cabin processing plant to our Bell Creek Oil Field.
The construction of that pipeline was on time and in the lower half of our budgeted range with total capital cost of less than $300 million.
ConocoPhillips is running 6 to 8 weeks behind in the finalization of their facilities at Lost Cabin.
They are currently commissioning their facilities and we expect to start filling our pipeline with CO2 shortly.
As a result we're 6 to 8 weeks behind in our planned first CO2 injections into Gulf Creek which we now expect to begin early in the second quarter.
We expect to obtain additional CO2 supplies from ExxonMobil's Shute Creek facility and we're working to secure a pipeline interconnect between the Greencore pipeline to the pipelines that transport CO2 from Shute Creek.
This pipeline in fact is important because it's going to significantly reduce the cost and time to deliver CO2 from Shute Creek to our operated Bell Creek Field and the Hartzog Draw fields.
It will also allow us to defer expansion of our Riley Ridge facility beyond the plant's target capacity of 200 million cubic feet a day of raw gas.
Moving on to Riley Ridge gas processing facility.
We continue to expect natural gas and helium production to begin midway through this year.
As a reminder the delays we've experienced completing the Riley Ridge facility has no impact on our plans to construct a carbon dioxide sweetener facility near Riley Ridge that will separate CO2 from the gas stream and then ultimately we'll build a CO2 pipeline that could connect the facility to our Rocky Mountain Oil Fields later in the decade.
So in conclusion our CO2 supply and transportation operations are performing well and we can expect to continue to meet the needs of our expanding tertiary production operations.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Okay thank you Craig.
Lori that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] And our first question from the line of Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Phil what are you going to do for an encore in 2013? Had a good end to the year.
Couple of questions here on the reversionary interest at Delhi I know you'd mentioned this at the Analyst Meeting as being a late 2013 event.
Has there been any change to that anticipated timing? And does your guidance reflect that change or reduction in your working interest? Yes our guidance does reflect it.
It has perhaps moved forward just a little bit.
I think we were assuming probably actually late in the fourth quarter initially and with the strong production response at Delhi and high oil prices are higher than we initially expected both of those would shorten that time period.
Research Division</strong> To perhaps the third quarter? Is that fair? Perhaps third yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question sounded like the modest delays at Bell Creek are just related to some third-party timing on commissioning at Lost Cabin.
Is that -- anything else going on there? No that's it exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And finally Phil or -- given the purchase of Conoco's interest I think the original plan at CCA was to do some initial water floods this year with the CO2 pilot 2014 with injection in 2016.
Has anything changed regarding that plan of attack on the CCA? No just to correct one point.
Actually we expect injections 2017 rather than '16.
But no the overall plan doesn't change.
I mean we're going to look at the assets and we may start -- we're not sure necessarily when we'll start the flood or what area of the field will get flooded first.
But the general plan to get a pipeline to CCA by 2017 is still the same and we're still doing work on water flooding and planning on a pilot late this year or early next year.
And our next question from the line of Michael Glick with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question pro forma the Conoco acquisition you guys are going to have a materially improved cash flow profile.
Does that change your thinking with respect to the relative merits of stock repurchases versus dividends? No.
I mean we do I mean at today's prices and pro forma with Conoco we probably will have a little bit of extra cash flow in 2013.
Of course that moves around daily depending on where prices are but it's probably not enough to really consider at least not a significant dividend.
So I don't think -- I think that's still a few years off.
We're going to kind of look at that.
And of course the stock repurchase we still have $250 million authorized on that but it would depend on where our stock is vis--vis oil price.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the units you're acquiring at CCA are there any plans there this year? Our plan is to continue to optimize the waterflood there.
So it -- just consistent with what we're doing throughout the CCA.
Yes we don't have a lot of -- I think we actually had I don't know $20 million or something kind of in the forecast for CCA for capital but it's just kind of minor and it kind of rounds off.
But no we don't have big plans.
We'll just get it acquired and look at it and try to optimize the flood.
Actually part of their interest too just a reminder is our non-op interest in parts of CCA that we already operate.
So we're picking up additional interest there.
Our next question from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on with Bell Creek the injection's starting up first half of this year.
When do you think you'll see response in production and I guess just kind of following on that when will you be able to book some reserves from that? Sure.
We expect to see response in the third quarter.
And we -- well reserves as you know we like to have a little bit of production history.
So it's a little closer than we were initially with this delay.
Before we probably would have felt pretty confident we'd book them by year end I think there's still a chance but we'll have to have probably 3 to 6 months of production to make the engineers comfortable to book the reserve.
So it may cut it a little close.
Research Division</strong> Okay so either year end or maybe even more so mid-next year? Yes.
We'll go to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a little bit of a handle around your guidance range of 4% to 12% growth on the tertiary production.
Pretty wide so was hoping maybe you guys could point to the trigger points that result in production either heading towards the high end or the low end of guidance.
Well the trigger points are the -- how the floods at Oyster Bayou and Hastings and Delhi continue to respond as well as how the Bell Creek will respond to CO2.
And -- so those are the triggers that we're looking for as well as the base production holding up.
And as we -- as the fourth quarter indicates we're seeing positive responses in all those floods.
So we think we're positioned well to deliver and in the midpoint of that -- midpoint to that range or higher so.
But we need to see the rest of the year play out but -- on the other side of that coin is as was mentioned when is the Delhi's reversionary interest and so those are all the factors that play out.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate those clarifications and then maybe jumping to the CO2 reserves at Jackson Dome.
Obviously getting this anthropogenic contract done and having that delivered over time makes your supply-demand balance a little bit more favorable.
But can you kind of walk through what you'll be looking at to make sure that you have sufficient supply out of Jackson Dome to be able to prosecute your Gulf Coast injection? Well as you know we have a -- if you look at our slide presentation we have a kind of a layered approach to that.
We have of course the proved reserves and we have a risk drilling program.
And as Craig mentioned we plan to drill 5 wells there this year.
A couple for rate and 3 of which could add reserves.
We have these anthropogenic that are coming on the Air Products is already on although expected to increase a bit and then PCS and then of course next year Mississippi Power.
So -- and then then we have another slice on there of other anthropogenic that we think are probable but have not yet commenced construction.
So we don't expect those to come on for a few years.
But bottom line is there is a whole program that we're of course closely monitoring the results of each piece and then we actually have another several Tcf of other potential beyond what's even in -- on the slide.
So we feel like we're very adequately covered.
The pieces will move around a little bit depending on timing of the anthropogenic and results from our drilling program.
So I'm sure it won't be quite as we forecasted but we think we have a pretty good cushion and can modify particularly our drilling program up or down as need be.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate that clarification and then maybe just one more if we think about kind of where the current stock is and upside to your net asset value and we look at kind of maybe a transaction that took place today with Linn buying Berry and we look at your production profile of kind of generally pretty predictable long-term mature Enhanced Oil Recovery assets do you guys look at either creating your own MLP or dropping assets to an MLP at some point or another? Well I mean as you know we ultimately expect to produce free cash flow.
We think that's probably about 4 years off and to be honest we -- an MLP is an option or a Linn-type structure is an option but we haven't really worked quite close enough to really say on that at this point but it's something we would definitely consider.
And we'll go to Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's just -- I'm not sure if you covered this.
So sorry if I missed it but what are your thoughts on doing additional share buybacks? And how much is left on the current authorization? So we have as Mark mentioned $250 million left on the current authorization and really it's a little hard to answer because it all depends on where the stock goes and where oil goes and we look at both of those.
So the only real color is we said we wanted to be below our proved NAV I guess is one criteria.
But other than that it's a little bit subjective.
So we have some room.
We have $250 million or less and we'll just see what happens.
Research Division</strong> Got you and any thoughts about potentially requesting an additional authorization? Well I mean we can consider that if we spend the full $250 million.
I think that the goal would be is having that funded or have a way to fund it.
So I think if we were to spend more than that we'd probably at least look at our CapEx through 2014 or something and maybe try to fund part of it with that.
We have a question from Ryan Oatman with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize.
My questions have all been answered.
Let's go to Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> So a few questions here.
The first one's a bit more hypothetical.
If you wanted to accelerate the development of your tertiary fields with the potentially additional cash flow you have do you -- could you do that? I mean obviously you should be able to draw the pipeline the CO2 pipeline and all that but is there a slight possibility for you to accomplish to move schedules forward? Well as we've normally said it's -- there's probably a little flexibility in there.
So perhaps we could accelerate a few things and maybe move them up but I think it's a relatively minor percent or to put it another way I don't think we could go twice as fast no matter how much money you throw at it.
And it's just because we have to manage the CO2 supply and we have to manage the transportation and then of course the field has to be able to take it and the recycle facilities have to be able to process it.
So if you accelerate too much you really hurt your returns because you build bigger facilities that may only be used for a very brief period of time or you start duplicating pipelines and so forth and the returns come down even though you've accelerated production.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then the second question is with the additional fields you -- that you acquired in the Rockies can you talk about the availability and sufficiency of your CO2 for all your Rockies tertiary fields at this point? Sure.
Actually we're kind of long CO2 in the Rockies and it's really anchored of course by our Riley Ridge property that we own.
The current sources the first one of course is Conoco at Lost Cabin that's going to be nearly 50 million a day.
That one's of course the one that's about to start going into our pipeline.
But we also of course did the deal with ExxonMobil.
So that's up to 115 million a day.
We have a contract with DKRW the anthropogenic source that's the plant that's not yet commenced construction but it's still planned.
That's 100 million a day initially with plans to expand it to twice that.
But all those are the kind of the auxiliary sources and Riley Ridge is the backbone.
We plan to start Riley Ridge production this year although we don't -- probably won't take CO2 from Riley Ridge until about 2017 when the pipeline gets there.
But Riley Ridge could be expanded to kind of whatever size we need.
Now takes a little time and of course takes a little money but it's producing from the same formation that Exxon's producing from which is estimated to have 100 Tcf of CO2.
So that's the backbone of our whole play up there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question is have you guys thought about hedging to Brent rather than just NYMEX? Any pros and cons you think about that? Yes Hsulin we have looked at that and typically when we have we found it different.
So it goes away pretty quickly.
So we've looked at it for a couple of years and so we're happy we actually didn't do it because we enjoy the advantage today.
So we're just being opportunistic.
We don't know where it's going to go for sure.
So we continue to employ our existing strategy for the time being.
And we have a question from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually all my questions have been answered.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
I wanted to ask about the anthropogenic CO2.
For the plants that are further out in time you talked about some that are still planned for construction but haven't started yet.
Have you seen any shuffling in the last few months as far as any of them looking more likely or -- to happen sooner or falling back? No real change recently.
I mean we put the -- we first put that kind of new slide out I guess at the Analyst Meeting in November and I don't think we've seen any changes since then.
So we would still kind of stick with our current forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And with Port Arthur since that's the first source that you now have online how has the deliverability been out of that plant? I know that was a concern and a reason for keeping Jackson Dome as sort of the backbone of the Gulf infrastructure.
So is the notion that some of these plants might not be as 24/7 as you would like? No it's been good now that it's producing probably about 25 million a day currently but I mean it was planned and there is a planned increase to double that.
So it's pretty much on track it's doing well.
Research Division</strong> Great and just wanted to follow up on -- at Hastings.
I remember at the Analyst Day you talked about the compression.
You gave the compression capacity to be brought online and I think it was mentioned earlier in the comments that the field has responded well to that.
Just looking ahead what are sort of -- are there any other sort of potential bottlenecks on the way as the field keeps ramping up this year either on the compression side or sort of any other infield equipment or infrastructure? No no we don't see any bottlenecks.
What's going to drive the production response in 2013 is additional patterns that will respond.
So the facility we've got facilities.
We're upgrading them a bit but that's on track to coincide with the increase that we'll get as these additional patterns respond.
So but we think we're on track with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay I mean I guess just give me some perspective.
Is there much in the budget specifically for facility expansion on existing floods for this year? Or are you pretty much set for the foreseeable future? Well I mean there is -- there are planned expansions everywhere.
I mean there's probably in rough numbers $500 million being spent at the oil fields and a lot of that is for facilities.
Some of it are expansions.
I think there is -- isn't there another compressor upgrade at Hastings? [indiscernible] So as the field grows we continue to expand the facilities but yes they're all planned.
In fact the equipment in a lot of cases has been ordered for some time so.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So when is that compression upgrade due at Hastings? I think it's the mid-year but that's -- I'm going a bit off memory the -- on switch and all.
Well I -- yes I had the same thought.
So it's -- we'll stick with mid-year then.
Research Division</strong> Okay just trying to think about that more as it's going to -- as Hastings is going to assume an increasingly -- turn a big profile in the Gulf Coast for your production.
We have a question from Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of quick ones for you.
First can you give any color on the timing and volumes of nat gas and helium out of Riley Ridge this year? Yes.
The plant capacity initially is 100 million a day of raw gas.
About 19% of that's expected to be methane and then of course you'd have about 20% royalty.
So I'm actually giving the numbers as I calculate it because I can't tell you off the top of my head.
So that's about 15 million a day.
Now I caution you though I think it may take us several months to get above that -- this is a new plant and serial #1 if you will so I think we've probably assumed in our forecast probably about half that assuming we kind of operate at about 50% capacity.
But ultimately we'll get up to about 15 million a day with the first phase of the plant and then in a couple of years we need to drill a few more wells 2 or 3 more wells and also expand the capacity which is fairly easy but we'll double that probably the next 2 or 3 years.
Helium part of it is a very small part of the production stream.
It's somewhere probably around 0.5% but then of course helium is a big part of the revenue stream so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then lastly can you just remind us what your WTI and LLS price assumptions are in your '13 guidance? We did not assume as a positive of differentials we received today we basically kind of built in in most cases kind of the forward strip at any given point in time.
So I mean I think it goes down to I guess low teens to single digits here throughout the year.
So it's probably in the I would say $6 to $10 $6 range or so somewhere in there.
There's a big debate most people think this LLS/WTI difference is going to converge and I don't know.
It seems to me most people on Wall Street think it's going to happen in '13 some debate rather it goes into '14 but we've in essence built that in so I don't think we're too aggressive on our forecast and we still expect to be able to cover CapEx with cash flow or have a little extra.
We have a question from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Had a question on your CO2 supply as well probably for the soup du jour today.
You all talked about in the past using I guess Riley Ridge Jackson Dome as to how I -- your CO2 storage facilities should you have any planned offsets in the system.
I guess now of course you're only getting a little bit of non-manmade CO2 but what sort of volume levels do you think that you start to have to think about testing that optionality should you have any infrastructure bottlenecks or downtime to the system as you ramp all that up? Well if I understand your question I mean I think it's highly unlikely Jackson Dome ever becomes a storage facility.
I think that the production could be increased or decreased as need be to accommodate anthropogenic sources but keep in mind we're producing 1 to 1.1 BCF a day out of Jackson Dome today.
So it takes quite a few sources to replace that and also keep in mind that we plan to use more in the future because we have several new floods coming on.
So I think the forecasted demands like 1.4 or 1.5 BCF a day in the Gulf Coast with the existing floods that we own or I mean the current properties that we own.
So you have an increasing demand.
So you put all those numbers together I think it's highly unlikely Jackson Dome ever becomes a storage facility.
We have -- you are correct we have said that could happen long term but I think it's many many years away if they -- if ever.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay sure and I'm not saying that's going to -- you're absolutely going to be always injecting but in terms of kind of one offer a day here and there if you have to start shutting things in because of the capacity issues or compression issues elsewhere so.
Thank you and I'll turn it back to Jack Collins for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Lori and thanks again to all of you for attending and participating on today's call.
Before you go let me update you quickly on management upcoming investor presentations.
Mark will be presenting at the JPMorgan high-yield conference in Miami next week followed by the Simmons Energy Conference in Las Vegas.
Phil will be presenting at the Raymond James conference in Orlando the first week of March and then followed by the Howard Weil Conference in New Orleans a few weeks later.
The slides for the presentation and webcast will be accessible through the Investor Relations section of our website.
And if you're attending any of these conferences we do hope to see you there.
Lastly if you mark your calendars we currently plan to report first quarter 2013 results on Thursday May 2 and hold our conference call that day at 10 a.m.
Central.
Thanks again for joining us today and we look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources First Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
My name is Lori and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Okay thank you Lori and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
With me today in the room from Denbury are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig Mcpherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin the call let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which have been posted to our website at www.denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosures on these measures are provided in today's news release.
With that let me turn the call over to Phil.
Thank you Jack.
I'm happy to report we're off to a great start this year we exceeded the consensus expectations again this quarter and that was largely due to solid tertiary production growth and we also had some very good oil price realizations.
Our tertiary production increased 4% sequentially quarter-over-quarter and 17% higher than it was a year ago or first quarter of 2012.
Craig is going to review that in more detail but in summary things are all looking good.
With a strong start we're effectively increasing our 2013 production guidance and are expected to be in the upper half of the previously estimated ranges.
In addition to the strong production growth we also set a record for the highest ever oil premiums relative to NYMEX largely due to the change in our production mix as we head a higher percentage of Gulf Coast crude with the sale of Bakken.
With our premium price realizations at 93% crude oil I mean [ph] our operating margins remain strong and among the highest of the peer group.
This quarter was a bit of a transition quarter for us particularly with regard to production as we sold the Bakken assets in Q4 and get close on the Conoco and Cedar Creek Anticline assets until  this -- with those funds until the end of the first quarter.
Even though we had an agreement to purchase these assets in early January with an effective date of January 1 for revenue and cost purposes we are not allowed to book production until transaction closes.
While we got -- while we think it's record production we did get the economic benefit of the first quarter net cash flow from these properties as a downward adjustment to the purchase price.
This temporary decline in total production quarter to quarter as we saw the timing of these deals was with the primary reason for lower revenue and income and flat cash flow if you compare sequential quarters.
Next quarter production should be back to Q4 or higher.
And Mark is also going to provide you with several pro forma numbers so you can see what the first quarter would have been had we closed on January 1 instead of the end of March.
Another notable achievement we've had is we recently began receiving and using CO2 from 2 manmade sources of the Air Products plant in Texas and Potash Corp.'s plant in Louisiana.
These projects are expected to provide some 70 million cubic feet of CO2 per day to our Gulf Coast region and tertiary operations and illustrate our unique ability to use and store CO2 underground that would otherwise be released to the atmosphere.
We remain encouraged by the opportunities that we see to further expand these anthropogenic or man-made CO2 supplies in the coming years.
In the Rocky Mountain region our tertiary offerings are making progress as we expect to see our first tertiary oil production on this area later this year.
We began filling up our first CO2 pipeline the Greencore pipeline in that region with CO2 from ConocoPhillips' Lost Cabin gas plant and expect to begin injecting CO2 in the Bell Creek Field right there on the Montana well border in the next month.
We'd anticipate tertiary oil productions of field probably late third quarter.
We also began injecting CO2 in the Grieve Field using the CO2 we acquired from ExxonMobil last year although its first tertiary oil production is not expected until 2015 as we need to repressurize that reservoir.
Last but not the least we also completed the redemption of our $650 million of our 9 1/2% and 9 3/4% notes.
We paid bank debt and we paid bank debt with proceeds from our $1.2 billion of 4 5/8% senior sub notes due in 2023.
This offering set a record for the lowest coupon ever for a non-investment grade sub-debt offering and will save us significant dollars in future interest expense.
Bottom line the message this quarter is that our operations are on track or ahead of projections.
We've completed our series of tax efficient and accretive transactions which has converted us into a pure CO2 EOR play which we believe offers one of the lowest risk and most compelling risk return in the industry today.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark and Craig and I'll give you more details on the first quarter.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
In my comments I'll provide some further analysis of our first quarter results primarily focusing on the sequential change results from Q4 to Q1 as well as some of the pro forma impacts of our recently acquired Cedar Creek Anticline assets which I'll refer to as CCA.
I will also provide you some forward-looking guidance to help you update your financial models.
Our adjusted net income and non-GAAP measure for the first quarter was $123 million or $0.33 per diluted share.
This was down slightly from fourth quarter adjusted net income of $137 million or $0.36 per diluted share primarily due to our Bakken transaction and then timing of the CCA acquisition as Phil discussed.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $316 million for Q1 flat with the prior quarter.
However the prior quarter adjusted cash flow would've been approximately $358 million except for a $42 million tax payment associated with the Bakken exchange.
If the recently acquired CCA assets had been included in our results for the entire first quarter we estimate that our adjusted net income would have been approximately $150 million or $0.40 per diluted share and our cash flow from operations before working capital changes would've been approximately $375 million.
Total production for the quarter was nearly 64 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day compared to just over 70 000 BOE per day in the fourth quarter.
The CCA acquisition which closed near the end of March added about 500 BOE per day to our first quarter production.
If you were to add the current production from the newly acquired CCA properties to our first quarter production our first quarter production would've been over 74 000 BOE per day or about 6% higher than the prior quarter.
Craig will provide more details in our production in his comments.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivatives settlements was about -- was almost $106 per barrel for the quarter up about $8 per barrel from the fourth quarter.
We sold our oil at an average price of over $11 above NYMEX in Q1 which was better than the over $9 premium in Q4 and our highest ever premium to WTI.
Our differential was favorably impacted by the fact that a larger percentage of our production was subject to the LLS price premium in Q1.
If the recently acquired CCA assets have been included in our results for the entire first quarter we estimate that our differential would've been over $3 per barrel lower or a positive differential of approximately $8 per barrel.
The average NYMEX price premium for our tertiary production in the first quarter was about $16 per barrel up slightly compared to Q4 with several fields receiving premiums above $18 per barrel.
During the first quarter we sold approximately 53% of our crude oil at prices based on the LLS index price.
Approximately 26% of our price is partially tied to LLS and the balance of price is based on various other indexes tied to NYMEX prices primarily in the Rocky Mountain region.
With the closing of the CCA acquisition at the end of Q1 we expect these percentages to return to historical levels which would be in the mid-40% range for prices based on LLS and low 20% range for prices partially tied to LLS.
As a result of this change in production mix and based on the recent decline in LLS premiums we currently expect to realize oil price differential to trend lower in Q2 and we estimate that our oil price differential premium may decline to the mid-to low-single digits in the second quarter of 2013.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
We continue to execute a strategy of protecting our oil price downside while retaining upside through cost of collars  which settle primarily based on NYMEX oil prices.
In addition we've recently began adding some collars for the first quarter of 2015 that's settled based on LLS prices.
The NYMEX base collars we've added for the first quarter of 2015 generally have 4 prices of $80 and average ceiling prices in the upper $90s while the floors and ceilings of the collars that's settled based on LLS are based about $5 higher than these levels.
Full details of our hedge positions are shown in the updated corporate presentation which we just posted to our website this morning.
Our lease operating expense per BOE was in line with our expected range coming in at around $24.50 per BOE in the first quarter.
For our tertiary operations we saw operating expense per BOE averaged about $24.70 for the quarter an increase from about $22.60 in the prior quarter due primarily to higher CO2 expense and power but generally in line with our expectations.
We estimate that on a pro forma basis the recently acquired CCA assets would not have had much impact on our Q1 LOE per BOE.
And going forward we expect our LOE per BOE to remain at the mid-20s per BOE range.
This rate for LOE per BOE does not include amounts for taxes other than income marketing and CO2 operating costs which you'll need to consider separately for your modeling purposes.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $42 million in Q1 up from $34 million in the fourth quarter.
This increase was primarily due to higher employee-related costs for taxes and 401(k) match associated with the vesting of long-term compensation and bonus payments in the first quarter as well as compensation increases effective at the beginning of the year.
As stated in the fourth quarter conference call this increase was anticipated and it is coming for our first quarter G&amp;A to amount a little higher due to these items.
Going forward we expect our G&amp;A to run in the upper $30 million to lower $40 million range per quarter with approximately $8 million to $10 million being stock-based compensation.
For our first quarter G&amp;A expense about $8 million was stock-based compensation.
Our overall DD&amp;A rate per BOE increased to $19.65 in the first quarter from $18.20 in Q4 primarily due to the lower production in Q1.
If the CCA production has been included in the first quarter's DD&amp;A calculation we estimate that our DD&amp;A per BOE would have been approximately $18.90 with most of the increase compared to Q4 due to the booking of the CCA assets at fair values.
If you recall our DD&amp;A rate dropped by over $2 per barrel in Q4 compared to Q3 of 2012 as a result of the Bakken exchange transaction.
Looking forward we expect our DD&amp;A rate to range between $19 to the low $20 range for the remainder of 2013 and most likely trending up throughout the year as we place additional assets into service.
Our estimates do not include us being able to book reserves at Bell Creek by year end which could potentially reduce our DD&amp;A rate sum.
That booking will depend on the timing of production response anticipated later this year.
Our effective income tax rate for Q1 was roughly in line with our estimated statutory tax rate with about 19% of our total taxes classified as current.
For 2013 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 38% and 39% with current taxes representing roughly 15% to 25% from total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Total debt at March 31 was approximately $3.3 billion roughly $150 million higher than the fourth quarter levels.
We had $275 million drawn on our $1.6 billion bank credit facility at the end of the quarter and approximately $60 million in cash.
We used the proceeds from our issuance of $1.2 billion of 4 5/8% senior subordinated notes to redeem nearly all of our 9%-plus 2016 notes and use the remainder to pay down bank debt.
Based on our current assumptions for 2013 cash flows and capital expenditures we would anticipate ending the year with bank debt of around $150 million to $250 million excluding the impact of any incremental share repurchases in 2013.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest was $36 million a slight improvement for $38 million in the prior quarter.
Capitalized interest in Q1 was $22 million.
We expect our capitalized interest to be between $60 million and $70 million for the full year which represents an increase from our previously guided range of $40 million to $45 million.
This increase was primarily due to the projected later start-up of Bell Creek and Riley Ridge.
We expect our capitalized interest to decrease throughout the remainder of the year from approximately $20 million in Q2 to less than $10 million in Q4.
Our capitalization metrics remains solid with our debt to net capital ratio at approximately 38% and our debt to Q1 annualized EBITDA at about 2.2x which excludes the debt refinancing costs.
And this is a little higher than the prior quarter as a result of the timing of the CCA acquisition.
If the estimated EBITDA from the recent CCA acquisition were included in the Q1 results we estimate our debt to first quarter annualized EBITDA would have been 1.9x.
We have increased our 2013 capital budget by $60 million to $1.06 billion of which approximately $20 million is for planning incremental capital associated with the newly acquired CCA properties and the remainder related to 2012 capital projects that were budgeted but not spent in 2012 and carried into 2013.
If you recall our capital spending was lower than our budget in 2012.
This excludes an estimated $160 million from various items including our capitalized interest and G&amp;G development costs and preproduction EOR startup costs.
Using recent assumptions for oil prices and our other current projections we expect to be able to fund our capital expenditures with our cash flow from operations.
Updating you now on our share repurchase program.
From the beginning of 2013 through the end of April we have repurchased roughly 4.7 million shares of our common stock for $80 million or about $16.90 per share.
With these purchases we have now purchased about 9% of our total shares outstanding since October 2011 at an average price of just over $15 per share which effectively improves our per-share metrics by this amount.
We intend to remain opportunistic with our share repurchase program and as of the end of April we had approximately $229 million remaining as authorized under this program.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig.
Okay thank you Mark.
Our core tertiary business started 2013 on a very strong note.
Tertiary oil production was 39 057 barrels per day during the first quarter that's an increase of 4% over the prior quarter levels.
There were several key fields that had material impacts on our record level of tertiary production in the first quarter which I'll comment on.
So I'll start with Delhi.
Delhi's production was up 11% from fourth quarter levels as we saw a strong production response from the newest phase of that field.
We expect production growth throughout 2013 albeit at a slower rate at Delhi until the reversionary interest is reached in the second half of the year.
At that point we estimate that our net revenue interest decreases from approximately the mid-70% range to the mid-50% range.
As we previously outlined we expect this to reduce production in the range of 1 000 to 1 500 barrels per day which we currently expect to occur around the end of the third quarter of 2013.
Moving to Hastings.
At our Hastings Field production increased 16% from the fourth quarter level as the field responded favorably to the additional recycle compression capacity added in late 2012.
We do anticipate additional growth at Hastings in 2013.
Moving to Oyster Bayou.
Oyster Bayou still continues to show strong results and steady growth increasing 23% from the prior quarter levels.
We anticipate continued growth at Oyster Bayou in 2013 as the field dewaters and more wells respond to CO2.
One area of recent increased operational focus across the company is managing and optimizing our more mature EOR floods.
This optimization has been a significant factor in our strong start in 2013 and a key reason to aggregate oil production from the tertiary fields I didn't discuss specifically were flat on a sequential quarter basis.
With the transactions we have completed over the past 1.5 years nearly all of our current non-tertiary production now comes from fields we plan to flood with CO2 in the future.
Production from our non-tertiary assets excluding production from the Bakken area assets sold during the period increased by about 10% sequentially to 24 766 barrels per day.
This increase is almost entirely driven by the production added from the fields we acquired from ExxonMobil in December while production from our other fields was down modestly from the prior quarter.
With the closing of the Cedar Creek Anticline acquisition at the end of the first quarter non-tertiary production should increase significantly in the second quarter.
I'm pleased to say that the newly acquired properties from ConocoPhillips are performing quite well.
We've identified some capital projects to perform on these assets and have increased our capital budget as Mark mentioned to pursue them.
Our Cedar Creek Anticline production including both legacy and the newly acquired fields is currently between 19 500 and 20 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We do continue to look for opportunities to increase production by optimizing our water floods at Cedar Creek Anticline and this is in advance of our planned CO2 flood of that field later this decade.
Looking at production on a total company basis with a strong start to date we now expect production to be in the upper half of our estimated ranges for 2013.
In order to manage expectations we do anticipate that our EOR and total production will be flat to modestly higher for the next 2 quarters based on the anticipated results of our EOR floods.
Of course this does exclude the contribution from the recently acquired Cedar Creek Anticline assets which are currently producing around 11 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
With that I'll move to lease operating expenses.
During the first quarter operating costs for our tertiary properties averaged about $24.70 per barrel which is up from the prior quarter but in line with our expectations.
Our non-tertiary operating costs is about $24 per barrel also increased from the prior quarter level primarily due to the impact of our Bakken assets build.
We continue to look for ways to improve the efficiency of operations and we expect to hold our operating cost per barrel flat for the remainder of 2013.
So with that let's move to a brief review of our Gulf Coast area CO2 supply operations.
In Jacksonville we produced approximately 1 billion cubic feet per day of CO2 during the quarter.
For 2013 we be budgeted 5 new CO2 wells to be drilled at Jackson Dome.
We successfully drilled the first well and we're currently drilling our second.
The first well's result exceeded expectations which may allow us to drop one of the plant drilling wells.
In addition to our natural sources of CO2 we continue to make progress on securing CO2 supply from man-made sources.
Please do note that we are currently injecting the CO2 being captured from both Air Products and Potash Corp.
into our Gulf Coast fields.
Additionally Mississippi Power's -- Power Plant currently under construction should be completed in 2014 and could provide more than 115 million cubic feet per day of CO2 to our Mississippi tertiary operations.
In addition to these 2 sources we're in various stages of discussions with other project sponsors that could further increase our Gulf Coast CO2 sources later this decade.
Moving on to our Rocky Mountain CO2 operations.
As Phil mentioned we're currently filling the Greencore pipeline with CO2 from ConocoPhillips' Lost Cabin gas plant and we expect to commence injecting CO2 in the Bell Creek in the next month or so.
We expect first tertiary oil production from the field 3 to 5 months after first CO2 injection depending on how fast the CO2 travels through the reservoir rock.
We also started 4 CO2 injections into Grieve Field in Wyoming with first oil production expected in 2015 when that field reaches the appropriate rock operating pressure.
We do expect to obtain additional CO2 supplies from ExxonMobil's Shute Creek facility in the future.
And we're working to secure pipeline interconnect between the Greencore pipeline to the pipeline that transport CO2 from Shute Creek.
This pipeline interconnect is important to us because it will significantly reduce the cost and time to deliver CO2 from Shute Creek to operate at Bell Creek and Hartzog Draw Fields.
At the Riley Ridge gas processing facility we continue to expect natural gas and helium production to begin during the third quarter of this year.
So in summary our CO2 supply and transportation operations are performing well and are on track to meet the needs of our expanding tertiary oil production operations.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Okay thank you Craig.
Lori that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] And the first question is from the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of quick ones.
First on Cedar Creek Anticline.
You mentioned I guess there's -- I just want to clarify so $20 million of the incremental $60 million in CapEx is going to go to kind of capital projects there? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you I guess quantify -- I know you've spoken about the decline rate on the conventional fields.
What are you trying to do and maybe what's the best case scenario on how you can mitigate declines before you begin the floods? Well we're doing that throughout the fields.
Well let me just take -- I'll speak to Cedar Creek Anticline to start with and then we'll -- Cedar Creek Anticline we see a lot of opportunities to optimize that waterflood and so that's swept that additional CapEx going forward.
In a newly acquired field we see opportunities to enhance the waterflood.
So what that means is we are cleaning out all the wells to get more water passing through the reservoir.
The higher the water rate the higher the production rate so that's the objective there.
And then on the EOR floods we're optimizing that just by better management of the CO2 traveling through the rock and so that's paying close attention to what we call conformance especially since the CO2 is going into the horizons with the highest oil percentage.
We're also working on keeping our compressor up time higher and so the more our equipment works the higher our production.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then quickly on Bell Creek sounds like you feel -- you could see some production response by the end of third quarter.
So how if any should we think about the fourth quarter contribution to production? Well I mean it's not going to be material just because it's starting now kind of late.
So we expect it to ramp up somewhat similar to the way Tinsley has responded over the years.
So it should have some decent growth but I mean as far as the impact on 2013 it will be somewhat negligible.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I just had one final one on the production guidance.
I didn't quite catch it when you're talking about through the quarters.
I guess Craig mentioned it.
Can you repeat what you're talking about as far as EOR production over the next couple of quarters? Yes I mean I basically mentioned we expect the next couple of quarters of EOR to be relatively flat maybe a slight growth and so we're just trying to kind of manage expectations and then we expect a little bit more growth in the fourth.
So yes just trying to manage expectations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly can you -- what would drive that fourth quarter growth? We'd expect a bit more growth particularly at Heidelberg although again continued growth at the fields that are growing Hastings Oyster Bayou.
But I think the bigger jump is probably anticipated -- Heidelberg particularly in the Christmas formation.
And also you get a low bid from Bell Creek although it's not a big number but it helps fourth quarter.
The offset is you will lose some production at Delhi.
And we expect the growth to be higher than what we lose.
And our next question from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Phil can you catch us up on your thoughts about maybe taking some of your mature EOR properties in the Gulf Coast and maybe putting them into either royalty trust or an MLP or some sort of vehicle like that? Well we're just kind of looking at all the options.
I mean I think that -- as you know we've stated that we expect to have free cash flow in 2017 and that's what we're driving toward and I think conceptually if we could figure out a way to bring that forward to 1 year or 2 we'd love to do that.
And so that's potentially where our MLP or something else might come into play.
So we're trying to do that.
We have just manage expectations I think it will take us several more months before we come up with a plan and for now we still expect free cash flow in 2017.
If we can better that we will try.
Research Division</strong> And then if you could compare and contrast some of the challenges whether it be terrain weather whatnot between Rocky CO2 operations and Gulf Coast CO2 operations.
And obviously you're increasing your level of activity in the Rockies.
And is there any learning that's occurred that you might find useful to either accelerate things or to make things run smoother at the Rockies? It's Craig.
Maybe we'll start with similar.
We know that CO2 EOR works in the Rockies and there's several fields there that CO2 EOR works quite well.
We know that it's admissible and so we're highly confident that just like it worked extremely well in the Gulf Coast in the Permian Basin that it does already prudent works extremely well in the Rockies.
So the process is the same the process will be successfully applied across the Gulf Coast in multiple fields.
That is the same process we will apply in the Rockies.
So what is some of the differences in general and this is -- actually this is not applicable to Bell Creek but it is to the others is the rock is tighter okay so you're talking about lower permeability which -- what it means is it just takes a bit longer for the CO2 to travel to the rock.
The mechanism of the contacting oil grabbing ahold of that oil and carrying it for the producing oil is exactly the same.
It just takes a bit more time and so we factored that into our forecast.
From an operability standpoint related challenges are weather and the fields are larger and so there's a geographic spread to that so that creates some operational differences.
Frankly more time in a truck to get from well to well but beyond that the process is the same.
That's it.
And our next question from the line of Robert Bellinski with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering can you discuss some of the opportunities and challenges that you're kind of currently seeing related to acquiring additional oil fields along the pass of the Greencore pipeline? Well we're always looking at deals so it's always extremely difficult to forecast.
And in fairness we're probably not pursuing it quite as much as we have in the past because we have inventory of projects that can give us growth for a decade.
So there's no pressing need to buy things.
So we'll probably take a little bit more opportunistic view but if properties were to become available or we could cut a deal I mean we would still consider that obviously.
And anything we'd look at would be in our 2 regions within reach of our infrastructure.
There are a lot of fields along the Greencore pipeline and in other parts of Wyoming so there's -- there are a lot of targets there.
If you look at our slide show we kind of showed you where the fields are with the green dots.
But -- a lot of opportunity but I think we're taking a little bit more opportunistic look at it at least for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then can you quickly just kind of walk through the costs and economics associated with the CO2 capture and injection projects in the Gulf Coast? Economics? Well we have great economics.
If you flip through our slide presentation for instance we talked about -- I think I mentioned it earlier we have the highest margin of our peer group or at least we did in 2012.
I think we're continuing to largely because of our premium pricing and heavy focus on oil.
We tend to have low S&amp;D costs if you look at the last 3 years.
Adjusted F&amp;D we were one of the lower ones other than maybe a gas company or 2 might beat us but at least the oil guys that were pretty low which you put those 2 together it means you have a capital efficiency.
Another point we also have pretty low breakeven economics.
So they all point to great return particularly relative to the risk in EOR and quite candidly that's why we made it our core focus.
It was the place where we're making the most money.
And our next question from the line of Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mark I was wondering if you could help us with what the pro forma PV-10 would look like post the CCA acquisition? I think in your previous disclosure you talked about maybe a $1.1 billion uptick.
Is that...
Yes about $1.1 billion.
Yes it was the number we -- I've put out previously...
Yes about $11 billion adjusted PV-10.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next question Mark I was wondering maybe if you could walk us through your next 2 floods -- your next 2 big floods at Webster and Hartzog withdraw? When do you plan to begin the floods? And preliminary thoughts on what part of 2015 2016 we could start to see some tertiary production.
Well Webster's scheduled for 2015.
I think what we'd probably anticipate is injections in the first half of the year and depending on the timing of the response probably the best case would be production like that year or initial production.So usually when we use dates or years that's kind of the tentative timetable we hope to start injections in the first half and normally sort of 6 at most 9 or 12 months for response.
So Webster's 2015.
That moved ahead of Conroe.
And Conroe's now 2017 in the Gulf Coast and then Thompson's after that at 2019.
In the Rockies Hartzog we're assuming we can get the CO2 and use the Exxon CO2 and get an interconnect with Anadarko.
And assuming that all works as planned which we think is very likely we would plan to start injections there and have production in 2016.
That's all.
Research Division</strong> And last one for me is you did not express confidence in the upper end of the range on production.
You see -- is this correct? Maybe a little bit more of a flattish with some slight growth in Q2 and Q3 with a bump-up in Q4 despite the fact that you have the reversionary interest.
Is that how you kind of see on a quarterly run rate things kind of play out from production basis? Yes.
Yes that's correct.
And our next question is from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just had 2 quick ones.
One with Bell Creek obviously I understand you're not going to have too much production to speak of but you will be able to book reserves at the end of this year I assume because you will at least have the response and you'll have some production online.
Well it depends on the timing of the response.
If you recall they usually like to see 3 to 6 months of production before the engineers which by the way are independent would let us book the reserves.
So we might we might not it's a little hard to say because it all depends on timing and the rate of the response.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understandable.
And then just with the industrial facilities obviously they're going to add $70 million as you said.
Does that take a while as they bring the plants on to get to that level? And if so just kind of how long that time frame at least is estimated to be? I guess there could be moving parts but is it a slow steady process to get it up to full speed as their plants get up to full speed? Well no it actually happens pretty quick.
So if contacts -- we're at $60 million a day right now from those 2 sources.
So our process is full board at $50 million and we're getting $10 million already out of Potash.
And our next question from the line of Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed this but I think you mentioned the pipeline interconnect in the Rockies.
I was wondering if that -- the cost of that particular project and also whether that would -- that could help you move up your -- some of your tertiary floods in the Rockies.
I don't have the precise number of that interconnect but it's minor dollars I mean I think you're talking just a few million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not really much? No.
No no.
They're actually very close together so it's just connected.
And as far as the timing or impact on timing that's factored in to our projection of flooding Hartzog in 2016.
You think we could start Hartzog a little sooner but we still do have to get a permit to put the line going from Greencore to [indiscernible] and that really is the bottom there because the part that takes a little while is getting approval environmental approval put that line in.
So -- but we believe 2016 is a reasonable date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up to the Greencore pipeline.
You talked about potential acquisition opportunities along the -- in the Rockies along the pipeline.
Now I know you guys did something -- did similar things in the Gulf Coast but I'm just wondering given the timing of the pipeline buildout if there is an optimal time doing the infrastructure buildout maybe right before it's completed to be looking at potential consolidation opportunities.
Well I mean probably the optimal time would be -- yes right when it's completed.
You have extra CO2 and then you can start the process right away but it never works that way so you have to just kind of adjust.
And unfortunately we don't get to negotiate with ourself it takes a willing seller.
So the timing is hard to forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then last question with the 2013 production guidance to the upper half I was wondering if you can comment on which particular tertiary fields or is this combination of all of them that's helping you guys feel more comfortable to the -- pointing to the upper half? Well I think the biggest thing is we're 39 000 now.
So obviously we're not too far from the upper end today.
We do expect the next 2 quarters as we mentioned to be relatively flat or at least very very modest growth.
So -- but what's happened is the fields that are growing they are expected to grow although the growth rate is expected to slow down a little bit at Delhi and Hastings.
And part of the biggest wildcard is what happens with some of the mature properties.
We have as Craig mentioned it was very strong and that we held the mature properties pretty flat quarter-to-quarter but we don't necessarily think we can continue to do that.
So that's kind of what's happening in the second and third.
We expect to have a little slippage there and we'll see how that goes.
Perhaps we can beat that but that's kind of I think what's in the forecast.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to the line of Mike Scialla with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Craig I might have missed it.
Did you give an update on the tertiary fields that were -- shown a lot of growth in the first quarter? Did you mention Hastings and if not could you tell us what Hastings did in the first quarter? Hastings production has grew -- I forgot what percentage[ph]-- but Hastings production grew primarily as a result of the increased concession[ph] that we added in late third...
[indiscernible] It was 3 409 in Q4 and 3 956 in Q1.
So 16%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you mentioned the LOE being up in the first quarter primarily due to the sale of the Bakken assets.
So is the first quarter a good run rate for the rest of the year? Yes we estimate it to be in the mid-20s.
So that's in line with our expectations.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and at Jackson Dome you mentioned that the first well this year came in better than anticipated.
I assume that was a rate well and how many of the 4 for additional wells that were contemplated are exploration wells? Well so first of all it -- this first well was a reserve add well and actually we believe it could be a quite a significant reserve.
Our pay was more than double what we expected as a new part of Jackson Dome area so it's a -- it'll be reserve add well.
So of those 5 wells I believe 2 or 3 were reserve add wells planned so we are more than well positioned to get our reserve as what we planned for this year at Jackson very pleased with this well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Any sense for what the reserve addition might be at this point from that well? Well we can't evade this but we're not quite ready to give a number yet but I guess -- I mean it could be up to a few hundred BCF.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> TCF potential? Did I hear that right? A few hundred BCF.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A few hundred BCF okay.
And before you finalize that is that going to take another well or do you just need some time to see how the production performs? We just need to get it online.
We've -- so this is based off of a -- we've drilled it we've logged it and we're completing it.
So it'll be on production here shortly.
When we see some production response we'll feel highly confident in booking it.
And our next question from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Phil I know you mentioned that current projections are for a free cash flow positive 2017.
Could you kind of outline what sort of CapEx number going forward you're looking at before you get to that point and also the infrastructure commitments or projections for the CO2 operations over the next couple of years? Sure.
If you recall from our slide show we show of course that's just EOR but that's obviously the bulk of our expenditures.
We anticipate that CapEx grows about $1.3 billion plus or minus a little bit in 2016.
And actually it's kind of a steady growth it may not be a straight line.
And then you might have another 100 or 200 for other things.
So probably 1 5 1 5ish.
And then we expect it to decline from that point forward.
What's happening is that includes the anticipated pipelines and infrastructure and so forth particularly in the Rockies.
We have -- we only have probably what about 1/3 of that pipeline built to maybe not even 1/3 maybe 1/4 with the Greencore's and we still have to connect it down to Riley Ridge and ultimately up to CCA.
And secondly we need to spend a little bit more money at Riley Ridge to get the -- sweetener plant online and drill a couple of additional wells actually I think 3 additional wells between now and 2017.
So that's -- conceptually the Gulf Coast is already building on free cash even though it's still growing and we're still investing and expanding into new floods.
But of course the Rockies is a user of cash at this point because we don't really have any EOR production up there yet.
Our first production will be from Bell Creek.
So that's kind of conceptually what's happening.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know the oil accounted for I guess by 93% of production 1Q.
Does that change any going forward now that CCA will be fully reflected in the quarterly production? It stays pretty consistent when I see go up a tad so I think CCA's primarily oil I think 99% oil and liquids so it should remain very strong.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the current tax.
I missed it a little early.
What did you mention the new guidance is there? We're estimating about 15% to 25% to our total taxes being current.
We still have some -- the finalization of our escrow account or our like-kind exchange we had about $50 million or so remaining in there.
So we think most of that will be going toward settlement of the final purchase price adjustments.
To the extent it does not we could have some incremental tax leakage.
But at this point we're not estimating that to be significant.
And our next question is from the line of Michael Glick with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on timing.
Is there any update to the timing of the startup of Riley Ridge or the CO2 pilot at CCA? We're still on track for the first part of the third quarter to start that plant up so things are on track.
Yes.
The pilot we're still kind of evaluating that for sure but it wasn't scheduled to start until late this year early next year.
So we have a bit of time on that.
We're still kind of evaluating the best way to do that.
With the addition of the Conoco assets it may change our plan just a little bit.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of your guidance.
Did you guys build any hurricane downtime into that? We do not.
We're pretty far away from the coast.
So unless -- really the only exposure probably is a bit at the Oyster Bayou from a storm surge that we would have to shut in for that.
But no nothing material.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And then just real quick on the Heidelberg.
What kind of performance have you seen from the Christmas zone thus far relative to your expectations? We are very pleased with our early response with the Christmas at Heidelberg.
Early days but initial results are on track to and perhaps maybe a little bit ahead of where we thought it would be.
And our next question will be from the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of looking at the schedule you all have in your Page 27 of your deck.
There is -- it looks like Heidelberg Oyster Bayou and Tinsley are right around their max forecasted rates.
So I guess kind of taking your comments about production being kind of flattish the next quarter 2.
So we're really looking at Hastings is just kind of where -- I'm inferring Hastings where the bulk of the growth is coming from.
How many additional patterns are you looking to bring on or are you looking to bring on more patterns in Hastings things before the -- over the next 2 quarters? I don't have the exact number in my head the additional patterns that Hastings will bring on.
It's several.
Well actually it's just increasing the -- waiting for the flood response at Hastings.
The CO2 is going in them and just waiting for that response.
I mean it's kind of a down dip pattern.
I don't actually have the exact number in my head.
We do expect Hastings production to grow through 2013.
But it might also we do expect Oyster Bayou production to grow as well through 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oyster Bayou looks like it's in the bucket for up to 5 mb/d kind of max peak rate and you're just about half there right now.
So okay.
So we could then have perhaps a little bit of growth there for the next couple of quarters depending on how the -- how everything comes in.
That's correct.
Yes Oyster's at 20 22 50 or 22 52 to be precise this quarter so you got a little room there.
It's been on a very steady incline so it's doing very well.
And our next question from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a few things.
Heading back to the Cedar Creek Anticline for a minute.
Now that you're at the point that you're starting to get your arms around the new additions the new acquisitions there can you characterize sort of the status of those fields in terms of I guess maybe how neglected they were relative to say when you took over the rest of the Anticline fields from Encore a few years ago? It's Craig.
I'll take a shot at it.
The Copperfield's assets were very well run and in good shape and so we're pleased with that.
That being said it was probably undercapitalized and so there's some opportunities there to pursue.
And so hence while we want to spend a bit more money in the Copperfield's assets primarily to get to the higher volume of water to get the higher volume of oil we see that as a low-hanging fruit.
ConocoPhillips is pursuing that.
We are going to accelerate the pace at which we pursue that.
So a really great asset probably a little bit better than we planned on.
So we like what we see we're just -- frankly we're just a month into it so learning more of it.
The more we learn the more we like it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And along the same lines so with those fuels added I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of the far north of this deal which of course will take the -- it'll longer to get the pipeline CO2 up there versus the south of the field.
Does adding the CCA assets into the mix -- does it really shift the order of how you might attack the different parts of the Anticline? And I guess I was thinking about maybe where the relative pressures are in the stuff you acquired versus the things you've held longer and you've done more work on and done more in the waterfloods on and so forth? Quick answer is yes it will.
And it'll enhance it.
In fact we're working to that changing the sequencing but the bottom line is we'll enhance it.
We'll start further south with these new assets.
They have waterflooded very well and without going into all the details we believe they will.
The net -- there are many oil that's high there.
It's got a zone that we believe is -- will be very responsive to CO2.
So we actually believe our EOR economics for CCA have been enhanced from a return standpoint and an efficiency standpoint by the acquisition of ConocoPhillips assets.
Research Division</strong> Great thanks.
I think the -- the only other thing I guess just -- I know that for quite a while now you guys have been real cautious on setting expectations for the LLS premium persisting over the long haul.
I'm wondering just kind of what your thinking is right now especially as you start to see how the -- sort of with the Bakken production and the way infrastructure is kind of remaking itself to get oil to the coast and so forth are you still inclined to just assume that's a temporary phenomenon? Or are you getting a little bit more optimistic for the long term? Well I think bottom line -- I don't know if anybody is for sure but we obviously look at it.
We do think there will remain some differential but we do think as others do I think it'll  likely to contract here over time.
And so I guess just looking at some of our hedging we have started to hedge some of it in LLS.
The market's gotten a little bit more wide open and I think from a hedging standpoint you're -- like to look to your price index generally to alleviate some disconnect.
But -- and as we're really just bringing in the mix trying to offset that to some degree but we do see it remaining somewhat but we do think it will contract over time.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it's -- you're thinking a couple of years is reasonable to expect that it could last? I'm not trying to pin you down or anything.
We hear a lot of different ones a week.
I really don't know.
I mean we -- I think a lot of people already projected it to come in quite a bit beyond where it has and so we are opportunistic with it.
We don't try to get too cute but we'll continue to watch it and take advantage of it as we -- as best we can.
Research Division</strong> And the only reason I ask is just if we did foresee a scenario where they continue to diverge then had to tend their old $10 barrel difference between the Rockies and the Gulf Coast.
I'm just thinking about whether that changes the calculation for small fields in the Gulf Coast versus dollars spent in the Rockies build.
I know we're talking over a long time frame so it's not going to be but so precise but that was kind of what I was thinking about.
Yes.
I mean that's -- the nature of our floods that's one thing that really distinguishes from the shale play.
We -- they're such long life assets that one year or 2 years doesn't really make all that much difference to rates of return.
There is a pretty big disconnect in pricing today or there has been historically it's starting -- LLS is starting to come down.
And I think most people expect it to go back to historic levels by end of this year.
It's probably consensus but it doesn't mean it's right.
But it appears to be moving in that direction.
So we're going to be pretty conservative in our forecast and we're not -- at least for internal forecasting we don't assume that it stays high.
And I'll now turn it back to our speakers for closing remarks.
Okay Lori.
Thanks again to everyone for attending and participating in today's call.
Management will be presenting at a number of investor conferences over the next few months.
A full schedule of these conferences are available on our website.
Also the slides for this presentation and webcast will be accessible in the Investor Relations section of our website as well.
If you're attending any of these conferences we hope to see you there.
And lastly we currently plan to report second quarter 2013 results on Tuesday August 6 and hold our conference call that day at 10:00 a.m.
Central.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Second Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
My name is Marla and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Marla and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
With me today on the call from Denbury are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig Mcpherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin the call let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which have been posted to our website at denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosures on these measures are provided in today's news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Thanks Jack.
Happy to report that we continued our positive start in 2013 as Q2's production earnings cash flow again exceeded consensus estimates excluding the earnings charge we took for Delhi and I'll talk a little bit about Delhi here in just a minute.
From a total production standpoint things are now back to normal after all the M&amp;A activity of last year.
This quarter being the first one that included all the assets we acquired in that series of property trades over the last 12 months.
As you can see we've now more than replaced production related to the Bakken and the other assets we've sold which coupled with our higher percentage of oil and attractive oil pricing resulted in record high quarterly revenues.
The exchange of assets that were uses of cash like the Bakken for assets that generate free cash flow like the CCA properties we acquired from ConocoPhillips enabled us to fully counter our growth CapEx in the first half of 2013 with operating cash flow.
We remain on track to fully fund our 2013 capital budget with cash from operations and if oil prices remain near the current levels we should have a little bit of cash left over.
In addition to the record revenue and strong cash flow we have some other positive things to report.
First Bell Creek.
We started Bell Creek Field in Montana [indiscernible] tertiary oil production slightly ahead of schedule.
This is a big milestone for us as it represents our first tertiary oil production in our second core area the Rocky Mountain region and if you recall that's the property we obtained in the 2010 Encore acquisition.
Tertiary production from Bell Creek is relatively low today but it is expected to gradually increase particularly when we complete the full commissioning of its facilities later this quarter.
We also had some positive developments in the Gulf Coast CO2.
As you know we continually work to develop new sources of CO2 in order to perpetuate our growth plan.
We told you last quarter we thought we had drilled a good well at Jackson Dome our primary CO2 source for the Gulf Coast region.
And we're pleased to announce we added 350 billion cubic feet of proved CO2 at Jackson Dome in Q2 for this well.
Also in the CO2 supply front during the second quarter we began receiving CO2 from a second man-made source into our Green Pipeline system.
These projects illustrate our unique ability to use and store captured CO2 that might otherwise be released.
With the long and successful history of CO2 enhanced recovery in the U.S.
we believe we offer one of the most economic and proven ways to store carbon dioxide underground.
We have now injected over 5 trillion cubic feet or nearly 300 million tons of CO2 into our operated fields.
While almost all of that to date come from a natural source at Jackson Dome today we're using between 50 million and 70 million cubic feet of man-made or anthropogenic CO2.
And we expect this amount to gradually increase over time making us more and more eco-friendly.
Let me talk a little bit about one other event in the quarter that wasn't quite so positive.
Craig will give you a more thorough update on this release -- on the release we experienced at Delhi in June but I'd like to make just a few comments on it.
Let me start by saying that the safety and welfare of the communities in which we operate their residents and the environment are Denbury's absolute top priorities.
We continue to take the situation very seriously and our team's response has been swift focused and comprehensive.
We are fully committed to remediating the situation of allocating considerable resources to the efforts demonstrated in part by the $70 million charge of remediation expenses we recorded this quarter.
One of the actions we've taken at Delhi is to temporarily halt CO2 injections into the impacted area of the field in order to reduce this operating pressure.
As a result of this and other actions taken Delhi's oil production started to decline in late June and has decreased to a production rate that is currently fluctuating between 4 000 and 4 500 barrels per day.
This is down from the second quarter average daily rate of about 5 500 barrels per day.
Based on what we know today we anticipate we will be in a position to resume CO2 injections into the impacted area in Q4.
After which we expect the field's oil production to gradually rebound.
Given Delhi's lower production and the estimated remediation costs we estimate the payout at Delhi that was previously anticipated late third quarter will now be pushed into 2014.
That means the anticipated drop in our share of Delhi's production will be deferred until 2014 making the net impact of the Delhi incident on our 2013 production relatively insignificant.
As such and with solid performance from our other assets we still expect our 2013 total and tertiary production to be in the upper half of our previously issued guidance.
Further at today's prices we anticipate that we can more than fully fund our 2013 capital program with cash flow from operations in spite of the $70 million of costs we expect to incur to remediate Delhi.
So while this event is clearly unacceptable it is not expected to have a meaningful impact on our 2013 operating results.
I'm sure you want to know what steps we're taking so a release like this doesn't happen again and I can assure you it is a top priority within Denbury.
It's difficult to answer that question precisely today as we are still working to determine the exact origin of the release.
But once determined we will review the situation see if there's anything we should have done or could have known that might have prevented this including a review and assessment of our policies and execution thereof.
And we'll take whatever corrective actions are necessary to mitigate this risk going forward.
Lastly on Delhi although still preliminary and we've not come to agreement with our insurance carriers based on our interpretation of our policies we currently estimate 1/3 to 2/3 of the remediation charge could be recoverable.
Let me close my prepared remarks by covering a topic that's recently garnered significant interest by investors and one that clearly illustrates the significant financial advantages of our unique and highly profitable strategy.
We've said for some time we expect to generate significant and growing levels of free cash flow in 2017 and thereafter following substantial completion of our CO2 infrastructure.
For the last few months we've been conducting internal analysis of our options for distributing that free cash flow to shareholders including consideration of possibly forming an MLP.
In addition to review and analysis of the various organizational structures we've also been evaluating whether we could potentially accelerate the cash distributions.
Both of these are still being analyzed and I think one of the most significant benefits of these discussions is they highlight our planned transition to an income and growth company made possible by the unique characteristics of our business model and strategy.
In our interactions many of you have expressed your opinions and these have been and will continue to be helpful for us.
However there's still an extensive amount of work to be done and so we will not be able to provide you with further guidance on this subject on today's call.
Instead we plan to present our conclusions and plan to you at our annual Analyst Meeting on November 11 in Houston which is also when we plan to provide you our initial estimates for 2014 production capital expenditures and obviously many other operational updates.
So with that let's have Mark and Craig give you more details on the quarter.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
In my comments I'll provide further analysis of our second quarter results primarily focusing on the sequential change in results from the first quarter.
I will also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you update your financial models.
Our adjusted net income a non-GAAP measure for the second quarter was $151 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
GAAP net income for Q2 was $130 million or $0.35 per diluted share with the primary differences between the two being a $43 million after-tax charge related to the remediation of Delhi Field offset in part by after-tax income of $28 million related to the change in the fair value of our commodity derivative contracts.
Our results improved from adjusted net income of $0.33 per diluted share in Q1 due primarily to the acquisition of Cedar Creek Anticline properties at the end of the first quarter which you will hear us refer to as CCA.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations a non-GAAP measure which excludes working capital changes was $309 million for Q2 or $0.83 per diluted share which was little changed from Q1.
You should note however that this adjusted cash flow number has not been adjusted for the Delhi Field charge or other unusual or nonrecurring charges in the quarter.
So if we exclude the impact of those items on our Q2 adjusted cash flow it would have been approximately $385 million or approximately $1.04 per diluted share.
Total production for the quarter came in at over 74 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day compared to just under 64 000 BOE per day in the first quarter with most of that increase due to the CCA acquisition.
Craig will provide more details on our Q2 production and our production drivers going forward in his comments.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was almost $99 per barrel for the quarter which is down from $106 per barrel in the first quarter.
We sold our oil at an average price of roughly $5 per barrel above NYMEX in Q2 which was about half of the $11 per barrel premium we realized in Q1.
The average premium to NYMEX for our tertiary production in the second quarter was about $11 per barrel down from almost $16 per barrel in Q1 as the difference between LLS and NYMEX pricing narrowed during the second quarter.
Based on the continued decline in LLS premium in Q3 and the trend in our Rocky Mountain region differentials we expect our realized oil price differential to trend lower in Q3 and be roughly flat with NYMEX prices.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
We continue to execute our strategy of protecting our oil price downside while retaining upside through costless collars.
As we stated on our last quarter earnings call in addition to the NYMEX contracts we have traditionally used we have started adding LLS-based collars to our hedging mix in 2015.
Full details of our hedging positions are shown in the updated Investor Presentation that we posted to our website this morning.
Moving on to our operating costs.
As mentioned previously we recorded a pretax charge of $70 million to lease operating expense in Q2 related to the Delhi Field incident.
This charge reflects our current minimum estimate of the cost to stop the release repair wells and remediate the impacted area and will be adjusted as necessary for changes in our estimate as additional information becomes available.
This charge does not reflect any potential insurance recoveries for these expenses.
Under the accounting rules we will recognize insurance recoveries in our financial statements either during the period received or at the time we determine receipt as virtually certain.
Excluding the Delhi charge our overall and tertiary lease operating expense came in better than what we expected and improved sequentially on a per BOE basis from Q1.
This is due primarily to the lower cost per barrel of our CCA-acquired assets and our -- and lower tertiary op costs.
Going forward we expect our LOE per BOE to be in the mid-20s per barrel range excluding any potential additional Delhi-related remediation expenses.
This rate for LOE per BOE does not include amounts for taxes other than income marketing and CO2 operating costs which you'll need to consider separately for your modeling purposes.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $33 million in Q2 down from $42 million in the first quarter.
This decrease was primarily due to lower compensation-related costs which are generally higher in Q1 due to bonus payouts and divesting of other long-term compensation; an increase in overhead recovery amounts which are due to an increase in COPAS overhead rates and the CCA acquisition; and the recoupment of approximately $1.9 million in G&amp;A related insurance recoveries.
Of our second quarter G&amp;A expense about $7 million was stock-based compensation.
For the back half of 2013 we expect G&amp;A expense to be between $35 million and $40 million each quarter with approximately $7 million to $10 million of that in stock-based compensation.
Our overall DD&amp;A per BOE decreased to $18.82 in the second quarter from $19.65 per BOE in the first quarter.
This is primarily due to the additional production associated with the CCA acquisition.
Looking forward we expect our DD&amp;A rate to be in the $19 to low $20 per BOE range for the remainder of 2013 trending up in the second half of the year as we place additional assets into service.
Our effective income tax rate for Q2 was approximately 38.5% in line with our estimated statutory rate.
And we recorded a current tax benefit in Q2 as our estimate of deductible capital cost in 2013 increased this quarter and that reduced our estimate for our cash taxes in 2013.
For the remainder of 2013 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 38.5% and 39% with current taxes representing roughly 5% to 10% of total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure total debt at June 30 was approximately $3.2 billion down from approximately $3.3 billion on March 31 due to the final redemption of our subordinated notes refinanced earlier this year.
And we had $260 million drawn on our bank line at June 30 which is down slightly from $275 million at the end of last quarter while our cash balance was up about $15 million from the last quarter.
Based on our current assumptions for cash flows and capital expenditures for the remainder of 2013 we anticipate ending the year with bank debt of between $100 million and $200 million excluding the impact of any incremental share repurchases in 2013.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest was $31 million an improvement from $36 million in the first quarter mostly due to a decrease in our average interest rate following the refinancing of our highest rate sub-debt earlier this year and a minor increase in capitalized interest from $22 million in Q1 to $23 million in Q2.
We anticipate capitalized interest to decline in the second half of 2013 as we place new assets into service.
We currently estimate capitalized interest at approximately $15 million to $20 million in Q3 and below $10 million in Q4.
Our capitalization metrics remained solid with our debt-to-capital ratio at approximately 38% and our debt to Q2 annualized adjusted cash flow and EBITDA excluding the Delhi charge at about 2.1x and 2x respectively.
We are maintaining our 2013 capital budget of $1.06 billion plus an estimated $160 million for various items including capitalized interest G&amp;G exploration and development costs and pre-production EOR start-up costs.
We have spent slightly under half of our full year capital budget to the first half of 2013.
And with regard to our share repurchase program since the beginning of 2013 we have repurchased roughly 5 million shares of our common stock for $85 million or about $17 per share.
With these purchases we have repurchased about 9% of our total shares outstanding since October 2011 at an average price of $15.15 per share.
We intend to remain opportunistic with our share repurchase program and we have approximately $224 million still authorized to spend under this program.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig for his operational review.
Okay thank you Mark.
I'll start with a review of production in the second quarter.
Our tertiary operations performed in line with our estimates in the second quarter oil production averaging just below 39 000 barrels per day.
Our tertiary oil production growth did moderate as expected in the second quarter but it was further impacted by declines late in the quarter at Delhi.
I'll discuss several key fields that had material impacts to our tertiary production in the second quarter and that are likely to have the most significant impact over the remainder of the year.
So let's start with Delhi.
In mid-June we observed and reported a release of well fluids which included carbon dioxide saltwater natural gas and some oil.
While this is a rare occurrence within our asset portfolio and that's a portfolio that includes 18 active CO2 floods nearly 6 000 wellbores of which nearly half are currently plugged and abandoned I'm going to echo Phil's comment that any release is unacceptable to us.
This release at Delhi occurred in the southwesternmost portion of the field.
That's an area that can generally be described as remote heavily forested with some swamp which makes access to part of that area difficult.
We are still actively working to permanently remediate this issue.
And it's premature to definitively say what caused the release of well fluids to the surface.
However our suspicion is that CO2 entered a previously plugged and abandoned well with an inadequate cement plug.
The impacted part of the field was just starting to respond to CO2 injection.
If the plug in the abandoned well was inadequate or not in place it could allow CO2 and other well fluids to use the well as a conduit to the surface.
We take the situation at Delhi seriously and we are aggressively pursuing its resolution.
Our actions to date include building containment structures to ensure the produced fluids which were primarily saltwater did not get into navigable waterways.
Given the heavily forested swampy area this has been a large task and the vast majority of this work has been completed.
We're also recovering the release fluids and we're remediating the area.
We're pumping large volumes of sodium chloride brine into several wells into the affected area and this displaces the underground CO2 and oil away from the potential leak sources.
We've stopped injection of CO2 into the impacted area.
Note that we are still injecting CO2 into the non-impacted parts of the field.
We're reentering the old P&amp;A wells to ensure they're properly plugged.
We're also drilling 2 wells to intercept 2 old P&amp;A wells that are suspect.
We may decide to drill more of those after the first 2 are finished.
We're also looking for a potential ghost well that may have been drilled and abandoned but never reported early in the life of Delhi which was discovered in the 1940s.
Local and state authorities have been and continue to be on site and we're working very closely with them every day to coordinate that response.
Our remediation work that is currently underway should shed additional light on the root cause.
Also we're conducting an internal review of our processes for assessment of P&amp;A wells both at Delhi and all our EOR fields to help ensure the processes are appropriate and solid and we use what we learn from this event to improve.
As Phil mentioned production at Delhi started to decline late in the second quarter as we undertook steps to remediate the situation.
We expect production from this area of the field to continue to slowly decline until CO2 injections return to their prior rates and we anticipate that to occur in the fourth quarter.
Once injections are fully resumed we expect the field's production to gradually rebound.
With that we'll move to Oyster Bayou.
Oyster bayou continues to show a strong response and steady growth increasing 12% from prior levels -- prior-quarter levels.
We anticipate continued growth at Oyster Bayou in 2013 as the field dewaters and more wells respond to CO2 injection.
At Heidelberg our CO2 flood is another bright spot for the quarter with the field's tertiary production increasing 5% from prior quarter levels to 4 149 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We saw continued response from the new zones we're flooding in the western part of Heidelberg.
And also our new development in East Heidelberg remains on track.
And we forecast CO2 response from these new areas to be a key driver of our expected tertiary growth in the fourth quarter.
Moving on to Hastings.
Hastings tertiary production increased slightly on a sequential basis and is expected to remain relatively flat in the third quarter before the expected contribution from our expansion of the flood drives meaningful growth in the fourth quarter.
As we noted on last quarter's call one area of increased operational focus has been managing and optimizing our more mature EOR floods.
These optimizations efforts continue to bear fruit as evidenced by the fact that the mature areas' first half 2013 tertiary production is only about 2.5% lower than the areas' fourth quarter 2012 production level.
This decline has [indiscernible] forecasted.
With the recent startup of our tertiary oil production at Bell Creek Field in Montana we look forward to reporting our first Rockies tertiary production in the third quarter.
Bell Creek tertiary production flipped a few weeks ago and is currently averaging less than 100 barrels per day.
We expect to have our production facilities at Bell Creek fully commissioned later this quarter at which time the field's tertiary production should begin to gradually increase.
To give you an idea of our expectation for Bell Creek's production profile we believe the field's reservoir characteristics are similar to our Tinsley Field in that the field's CO2 flood should respond in a somewhat similar manner.
As a reminder we've also started CO2 injections in the Grieve field in Wyoming.
We anticipate first oil production in 2015 when that field reaches the appropriate operating pressure.
Production from our non-tertiary assets increased to 35 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the 24 766 barrels of oil per day the prior quarter primarily due to the production contributions from the CCA assets we acquired near the end of the first quarter.
The recently acquired properties from ConocoPhillips are performing quite well.
Our Cedar Creek Anticline production including both legacy and newly acquired fields was 19 935 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the second quarter.
We continue to look for opportunities to increase production by optimizing our waterfloods at CCA and this is in advance of our planned CO2 flood of that field later this decade.
Looking at production on a total company basis with the strong first half and despite the expected reduction of Delhi we continue to look for both tertiary and total company production to be in the upper half of our originally estimated ranges for 2013.
We do anticipate modest sequential declines of both our EOR and total production in the third quarter as we expect the modest production contributions from Bell Creek to be more than offset by the temporary decline at Delhi.
With the expected growth from Bell Creek and several Gulf Coast fields in the fourth quarter we expect total and tertiary production to resume their sequential quarter growth in the fourth quarter.
So with that let's move to lease operating expenses.
Our lease operating expense per barrel of equivalent production excluding the Delhi Field charge declined by 9% from the first quarter to $22.34 per BOE in the second quarter.
This over $2 per BOE reduction was primarily due to lower unit operating cost for the recently acquired Cedar Creek Anticline properties and a reduction in tertiary operating costs.
Operating costs for our tertiary property excluding the Delhi charge averaged $23.52 per barrel during the second quarter down over $1 per barrel from the prior quarter.
We will continue to look for ways to improve the efficiency of our operations.
Let me now give you a brief recap of our CO2 supply and transportation operations.
At a high-level our CO2 supply and transportation operations are performing well and are on track to fulfill the growing demand for tertiary oil production operations.
In the Gulf Coast region we produced about 1 billion cubic feet per day of CO2 from Jackson Dome during the quarter.
Additionally we booked 350 billion cubic feet of proved CO2 reserves at Jackson Dome during the quarter related to the first well we drilled in the area this year.
There is some potential that this proved reserve number could increase once we have more production history from the well.
Given the success of this well we now plan to drill only a total of 3 CO2 wells at Jackson Dome this year to meet our supply requirement down from our originally budgeted 5.
The other 2 wells planned for this year will be delayed to future periods.
Moving to anthropogenic or man-made CO2 sources we continue to make progress in increasing our supply.
Today we're currently injecting the CO2 being captured from both Air Products and Potash Corp.
into our Gulf Coast fields.
Additionally Mississippi Power's power plant currently under construction should be completed in 2014 and could provide more than 115 million cubic feet per day of CO2 to our Mississippi tertiary operations.
In addition to these sources we're in various stages of discussions with other project sponsors that could further increase our Gulf Coast CO2 sources later this year.
In the Rocky Mountain region we now expect natural gas and helium production from Riley Ridge to commence on the fourth quarter of this year a few months later than our previous estimate.
We are focused on ensuring a successful start of this gas processing plant which represents the first step in making Riley Ridge an anchor source of our Rocky Mountain region CO2 supply later this decade.
We continue to expect to receive additional CO2 deliveries from ExxonMobil's Shute Creek facility in the future and we're very close to finalizing an agreement that would connect our Rocky Mountain CO2 pipeline to the third-party pipeline to transport CO2 from Shute Creek.
This interconnect would significantly reduce the cost and time to deliver CO2 from Shute Creek to our operated Bell Creek and Hartzog Draw Fields.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Okay thanks Craig.
Marla that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Could you please open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will go to the line of Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I do want to follow up a little bit on Delhi.
It doesn't sound like you've yet quite identified the root cause as you mentioned.
However it seems like you're still pretty confident that you could restore or begin reinjecting CO2 in Q4.
So I was just wondering if you could maybe comment on the certainties or uncertainties around the remediation actions because I didn't get a sense of how comfortable you are that you've identified the action plan going forward.
This is Craig.
We have a high degree of confidence that we're targeting the right areas.
We believe there's primarily 2 old P&amp;A wells that we believe are -- one of the two of them is the likely source and we're intervening on those wells.
There is I guess a low probability that they are not the source and if so it's another well.
And so we are also targeting several other wells to intervene on those and have well intervention plans for those.
So we have a high degree of confidence that it's one of the wells we're targeting.
We can't say with 100% certainty which well it is until we get on it and finalize that work.
But our -- we've got a comprehensive approach to address all of the potential sources.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you do have a rig on location drilling to re-cement those wells is that correct on both of those locations? Yes we have a rig that's drilling an intervention well now and we're in the process of rigging up another well -- another rig to intercept the second target well.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Phil you talked about planning to talk more about the dividend strategy going forward in November but I did just want to talk to you a little bit about the MLP market regarding some of the upstream companies.
We've seen one notable company have some issues regarding that.
And does that perhaps change your thought process or the board's thought process in terms of employing an MLP as part of a potential income strategy going forward? Well I think we're -- I mean we're taking that into consideration.
One thing we've kind of said that we would plan to perhaps run the business a bit different than some of the MLPs in the sense that we would stay within cash flow for CapEx and distributions.
And so we think that would make it a very attractive entity whether it's an MLP or a C corp or what that looks like.
So we won't -- we'll probably try to avoid going down some of the path that maybe some of the MLPs have done where they spend more than they make.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And last question just can you give as a sense of what the updated timing would be for Riley Ridge to get -- to begin production there? Yes mid to late October.
And our next question will go to the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one more thing on Delhi you spent $70 million from remediation in the second quarter.
How much more do you think that's going to be as we go into the third quarter? Is there a significant amount of money that needs to be spent there or is it pretty much wrapping up? Well that $70 million is actually our estimated -- no it's the -- in fairness as the accounting rules provide it's the low end of the estimated total cost.
We have actually not spent $70 million to date.
I believe the number to date is about $45 million.
And most of that would have been in the third quarter.
But under -- and Mark could probably get into it more if you want to but under the accounting rules we need to accrue the estimated total cost to remediate the situation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I understand it.
That kind of got me to the cash flow numbers you guys spoke to as well.
All right.
And then the other thing just a question on the CO2 well that you drilled so it sounds like the plan of drilling your 5 wells is not needed at this point.
So how much CapEx was allocated to that program compared to what you're going to do now? And then where does that difference gets spent? Those wells are in rough numbers about $15 million a well.
And so I don't know that the $30 million went to any one specific spot but it's just kind of being reallocated among other areas.
We expect our CapEx to still be kind of the same as what we had last quarter just over $1.60 billion.
And so that hasn't changed.
But we'll take that money and just use it in various places.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Fair enough.
And then -- and one last thing just on some of the conventional stuff it looks like Mississippi production dropped if I'm looking at that right sequentially by roughly 1 000 barrels per day.
What was that the result of? And is that going to kind of recover again in the third quarter? Are you talking about that in the mature areas? LLC Research Division</strong> No no actually -- yes the non-tertiary stuff the conventional stuff conventional Mississippi.
Yes I show it going down about 700 rather than 1 000 -- or about 650 actually.
But just one second we'll give you an answer on that.
You have that handy Mark? Yes.
We did -- it's kind of normal declines there.
We did -- we do have some fluctuations in our inventory numbers there.
But I don't know if it's anything too terribly unusual.
And next we'll go to the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Quickly on the performance of the mature assets.
I think Craig had mentioned a shallower decline than expected.
Can you give some granularity on what you're doing there? And is that a trend you think can persist into 2014? There's no syllable that's actually there.
It's a focus of our operations primarily on uptime so it's optimization of wells optimization of compression equipment and frankly just less down -- just the focus on less downtime.
So that's a significant part of it.
It'll be a bit lumpy as we see opportunities and pursue them.
So I don't think we're ready to declare a permanent change in our production decline but it should enhance that performance.
It's just operations excellence.
I mean it's just an overall pursuit we've got throughout the company around being more efficient with every piece of our assets and processes.
Just to follow up when we give guidance we usually assume that it kind of goes back to projected declines which in rough numbers is probably anticipated to be about 10% per year as a group.
So in our guidance we've kind of assumed that it continues to slip a little bit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Bell Creek obviously de minimis production now less than 100 barrels a day.
When you talk about the tertiary production increasing after commissioning what kind of ramp do you envision? And then do you have a target 2013 exit rate you think this could be at? Well I think Craig mentioned that we expect the field to look somewhat like a Tinsley.
So it should grow.
The only difference we're not injecting quite as much into Bell Creek as we normally did at Tinsley because we just have the one supply today which comes from ConocoPhillips plant.
Probably hasn't given exit rate yet.
It's still pretty early.
But it should grow pretty steadily actually for the next several years.
And next we have a question from Ryan Oatman of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of mine have been answered but wanted to go back to Delhi just real quick here.
Can you talk about how you'll make the decision whether or not to resume CO2 injection there? And just help us understand the potential variables that you need to see before moving forward and then reinjecting CO2 in that specific area? Yes.
So the fundamentals we've got to be confident that we've isolated and sealed off this underground leak source.
And so that will be determined as we do these intervention wells and basically it's drilling a well that's twin this old well and intercepting at the bottom and squeezing cement into the bottom.
And so we'll get a response when we do that.
And assuming that it's an effective squeeze and we're confident that it's sealed off that will give us confidence that we've isolated the leak and we'll be ready to resume.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And then shifting a little bit to corporate strategy it does look like the share repurchases have slowed significantly from the first quarter level.
Should we anticipate minimal repurchases in some of the company updates that's corporate strategy in November? Well I don't know that it is necessarily related to the corporate strategy.
I think it's just the stock price has been a little bit better recently and we're used to this kind of a subjective repurchase program depending where the stock price is and where the oil price is.
So we have slowed down a bit but I think that's largely just where the stock price is.
So we'll tend to still kind of be a little bit opportunistic I guess in that matter.
We have a little over 200 left on the authorized program.
And perhaps one positive is that oil prices are staying strong so our cash flow is pretty strong which helps.
But we just tend to look at it still day by day I guess.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then one final one for me oil futures looks like they're in pretty steep backwardation.
2015 WTI I was just checking was at $90 this morning; 2015 Brent $97.
How does that impact your hedging strategy if at all? I mean do you go more towards Brent than WTI? Is it too backward dated to really layer on hedges? Just curious your thoughts on longer-dated hedging.
We'd appreciate if you fix that backwardation for us.
We have been kind of still keeping about 2 years hedged in front of us.
We try to be opportunistic.
It is a little tougher with backwardation.
I think we're hedging now in the third quarter of '15 and it's probably about $80 floor and what $95 ceiling roughly Mark? So we're kind of trying to keep 2 years but we tend to be opportunistic.
We really haven't changed our approach.
We have hedged a little bit of LLS instead of WTI and if you do that you're generally about $5 higher.
So we just tend to still watch it and my guess we'd kind of hope that the backwardation kind of goes away a little bit.
And next we'll go to the line of Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> So I have a quick follow-up to Delhi.
I know you mentioned the CO2 injection expected to resume in fourth quarter.
Can you talk about in terms of response time like [indiscernible] you can you will need to get production back up to the 5 000 level? And maybe -- or if you can comment on the impact in 2014 please.
I don't know if we have a good number for '14 yet.
I don't think -- we wouldn't expect to be back to the 5 000 until '14.
It won't happen in the fourth quarter.
It's not going to respond that quickly.
And then the other thing that will come into play in '14 which is where we're kind of hedging our bets the payout that's been deferred will likely happen sometime in '14.
And that one's a little tough to nail down today because one we're not sure exactly what we spend; two we're not sure what we're going to recover from insurance; and third we're not sure of the timing of those insurance recoveries.
So we know it's out there sometime in the future but we'd prefer to kind of wait maybe until the Analyst Meeting we should have better numbers and we can give you maybe a better feel for 2014 Delhi.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then second question is just on Bell Creek.
Given that you have seen a very -- I mean fairly small spill production rate.
But in terms of the performance compared to your expectations is it still -- is the peak year still 2019 or thereabout and also the peak production's still 5 000 to 10 000 BOE per day sort of range? Yes it's really quite early to speculate 2019 production I guess.
But we would still anticipate it to be as previously disclosed.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last question.
I know we'll get more information on the Analyst Day regarding your analysis of your -- of the various options for contribution -- I mean for the free cash flow.
But I was just wondering if you can comment on what are your key position criteria? And -- I mean I would assume production growth is [indiscernible] not the highest one on there.
But I just wanted to kind of understand how you -- what your key criteria are for that decision-making process? Well yes we're just looking at what's the most advantageous for the Denbury shareholders and that's a little bit of a tough question to answer because we've got to take into account potential tax impact and so forth.
So we're just trying to evaluate that and I think it's just difficult to give much color on this call.
And next we'll go to the line of Michael Glick with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Bell Creek.
With the earlier start up of EOR production does that make it more likely to be able to book proved reserves out there this year -- proved tertiary reserves? It helps.
I mean we still do need a fairly strong production response probably late third or fourth quarter really in order to be able to book it.
But obviously the sooner the better so that maybe increases the probability.
I don't think it's a slamdunk yet.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then shifting to Jackson Dome the 3 other wells you have planned for this year are any of those targeting reserve add as well are those all rigged wells? All 3 wells.
Well one we've already given you a number but the other 2 also we're targeting reserve adds.
Next we'll go to the line of Mike Scialla with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Heidelberg seems to be growing pretty nicely.
Can you talk about how you're looking at that now and what you're doing both the east and west side of the field? I know you have projected the peak in 2018 to 2020 does that still look like an accurate forecast? And wondering how much CapEx you need to spend over that time frame to get there.
Heidelberg is doing really well.
[indiscernible] there would be -- it's tracking beautifully with what we forecast and so we're very pleased with the performance of it.
It's primarily the result of the Christmas zone.
And so we like what we see there and we're encouraged that our out-year plans are appropriate and actually quite profitable.
With respect to the out-years' spending I actually don't have that number in my head.
I don't know Phil if you've got it or Mark more specifically? If there's a lot of optionality I guess what I'd tell you is we don't have to spend -- we have a lot of flexibility in what we choose to spend at Heidelberg I would say the 2013 results are encouraging as that is a very strong investment down the road that we can scale as we choose to.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are there still I guess a lots of wells to be drilled there as you develop that Christmas zone or is this...
There's multiple patterns yet to be -- that can still be pursued.
Yes.
The Christmas is just getting started so the production you've seen today is for the most part from the Utah and that's a bit older flood if you will.
Although it's actually growing very modestly or kind of holding its own.
But the expected growth is Christmas -- so it's almost conceptually if you just think of it as a second flood at Heidelberg or an additional flood it might be one way to look at it it's almost like starting a new flood.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would looking at historical expenditures for the Utah be -- get you in the ballpark for what you need to spend to develop the Christmas is that one way of thinking about it? Yes that's -- maybe not quite as big because you can share some facility costs.
But we spent a lot there this year.
I think it's over $150 million.
$100 million between the two.
But probably I don't think it will continue at that pace going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
At Hastings I know you haven't -- it's taken a little bit of a pause there.
Is there any sign of any downdip response in those downdip patterns yet? Some.
And this past week we put a compressor online and so I would say it's on track relative to expectations.
So we're encouraged with what we see at Hastings.
But yes we'll start to see increased response in the downdip patterns into the latter part of this quarter and most certainly into the fourth quarter.
Yes and one of the -- actually one I guess kind of minor but it's a few days of production as we had to turn around at the facility to install additional compression so that obviously has a little bit of a minor impact on third quarter production which is why we said we expect it to be kind of flattish with the second but then a little bit of increase from the fourth.
That is it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me any update on the permitting and right-of-way process for Hartzog Draw? I don't think I have that on top of my head.
On track.
I think in my understanding I think we're -- it's basically rate waiting everything the process of regulatory approval environmental assessments and so forth and that's the long lead time there.
And next we'll go to the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just had 1.
Most have been answered.
As you've obviously been moving more to the Rockies and a lot more of your oil production's coming from up there what are you seeing as far as pricing? And then where are your price points for that oil? Well as you know most of the -- I mean conceptually the Gulf Coast is priced off -- a lot of it is priced off LLS the Rocky is priced off WTI.
Of course those 2 have converged quite a bit recently but -- so as an example the Cedar Creek Anticline our single biggest deal in the Rockies this quarter was just over $6 below NYMEX.
So it tends to get a little bit of a transportation [indiscernible] but that's kind of the main delta between the 2 areas.
One's kind of WTI-based one's LLS.
Next we'll go to the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just one for me.
If you can provide an update on that plant pipeline interconnect between the Greencore Pipeline and I guess just the Shute Creek pipeline.
We expect the agreement to be signed any day so we should have it in place.
We plan to start -- put -- doing the operations in the next 30 days.
And it should be in place mid-fourth quarter.
And next we'll go to the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First one I have was just on Grieve.
I know you all had said previously it was about a year to inject in that field to get it started up.
So has there been any change to those expectations or any progress report? No change to our expectations.
We were injecting CO2 into the Grieve.
It's starting to pressure up.
Yes we're on track.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then kind of looking at your forecast there for all your major fields you have Delhi in the 5 to 10 Mbd kind of bucket with the field kind of producing close to 6 there in I guess prior-quarter.
I guess where do you think that might top out once everything gets back to normal? Well net -- we're going to lose our reversionary interest again just to reiterate that at some point in '14 so we've got to overcome that.
So we might get a -- ultimately get a little bit above where we were but we've got to overcome the backend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just how long a plateau should we think that field would then have? It has a few years of growth.
2 years yes.
2 3 years left probably.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I know there's been an uptick in capitalized interest the last few quarters I guess while total industry expense on a cash basis looks like it's declining sequentially I guess.
When should we look at capitalized numbers to taper off to follow suit? Capitalized interest will taper off here as we go throughout the year.
I think we said between $15 million to $20 million in Q3 and less than $10 million in Q4 once Riley Ridge comes online.
[Operator Instructions] And next we'll go to the line of Robert Bellinski with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
First how long do you expect production at Cedar Creek to stay at its current level and how should we think about capital spend and production declines over time? And then second given that you're starting to hedge LLS I was just wondering is there a catalyst that prompted you to add those hedges? And what are your general thoughts on how the LLS differential might change going forward? Well Cedar Creek Anticline we expect quite modest decline.
It's not keeping it relatively flat for the next couple of years.
That's the function of our waterflood work and optimization work that we think is pretty robust.
So we're refining those plans and we'll talk more detail in November about that.
But it's proven out a bit.
And particularly the assets we've got from ConocoPhillips we see some opportunities to enhance that to really keep the production relatively constant.
We had a pretty strong quarter in Q2.
CCA may not be quite that strong but we would think it would probably run between 19 000 and 20 000 barrels a day at least in the near-term.
And we think we can hold it there with a little bit of work.
You want to talk about LLS? Yes on the hedging front we really started looking -- we think hedging some on LLS is reasonable because it is what we sell the crude in and so it does give us some protection there from the differentials whichever way they may go.
Longer-term we've seen a pull in here as transportation has continued to come into the area and I think if the futures are reasonably close that will likely continue to contract some and really just represent kind of a transportation differential in terms of moving barrels around.
So we're not exactly sure where it goes.
But we felt that it was reasonable to begin to hedge some in LLS potentially that's what we sell it in.
Our final question will come from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> A general question.
I was thinking about the staggering of the different CO2 flood going forward and a bit of discussion is already happening today about the Rockies versus the Gulf and resources.
And when you look at possible options for cash flow [indiscernible] I'm thinking about some of the recent shuffling for example last year I think it was Conroe that got pushed out from 2015 to 2017.
And if you did monetize or [indiscernible] in another part of the company do you think you have the room to sort of move projects maybe back up a little bit sooner or do you think of the schedule as being pretty much that given the bandwidth that you have? Well no.
I think we've kind of stated this it's difficult for us to really accelerate things significantly.
We -- and so that's one of the reasons also I think we turned into a real cash flow generating entity because we really can't throw more money at it and grow at twice the rate or whatever.
It's just that doesn't fit our profile and it would be hurting our rates of return.
However we do have a lot of flexibility in rearranging things.
And so we look at that we continue to look at it and see what the best return is.
And as you appropriately said we swapped.
When we purchased Webster we swapped it around with Conroe and that was just because Webster was closer and to be honest it was a little better rate of return because you don't have to build as long of a pipeline to get to Webster as you do Conroe.
So we have a lot of capability to shuffle things.
We don't have a lot of capacity to accelerate things at least not in the aggregate.
I mean you can accelerate one but then you're trading -- usually trading that off against slowing down some other field.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And this has been touched on already but I think what comes to mind when I hear you talk about the evaluation process you're going through is I think of the maps we've seen over the years and sort of the vast number of smaller fields along the pipeline routes on the Gulf Coast.
And I just get curious thinking about what -- is there a way to get at those maybe simultaneously or a little bit faster? I don't know if that's a goal of what you'd be thinking of -- when I say faster I mean things that you might not be able to get to the first say 10 years coming closer into 5 years if they were available.
Well again I think you'd be reshuffling.
I mean today we've kind of given you the plan and the schedule for everything we own in the Gulf Coast at least everything that's material.
If we were to pick up some other fields and we'd just have to consider if we want to shuffle that around.
But I think there would still be somewhat of a trade off.
In other words if you take CO2 away from Conroe as an example to flood some small field there's going to be some trade-offs there.
Okay.
Thank you again everyone for participating in today's call.
Before you go let me cover a few housekeeping items with you on the conference front Phil will be giving presentations at the EnerCom Conference in Denver next Tuesday and at the Barclays Conference in New York on Thursday September 12.
The webcast and slides of these presentations will be accessible through the Investor Relations section of our website.
And if you are attending either of these conferences we hope to see you there.
Also we recently launched our redesigned corporate website at denbury.com.
Hope you'll find the new website design more informative and user friendly.
And if you have any questions or feedback don't hesitate to contact us.
And lastly just for your calendars we plan to report our third quarter 2013 results on Tuesday November 5.
And we'll hold our conference call that day at our usual time of 10 a.m.
Central.
Thanks again for joining us and we look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Third Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
My name is Mary and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Okay.
Thank you Mary and good morning everyone.
We're glad to have you join us for today's call.
With me on the call today from Denbury are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig Mcpherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before the call begins let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-Q and 10-K and today's news release all of which have been posted to our website at denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosures on these measures are provided in today's news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Thanks Jack.
This morning we reported a sequential improvement in our quarterly financial results.
Adjusted net income adjusted cash flow both increased primarily as a result of higher oil price and that more than offset the impact of the modest sequential decline in production that we had expected this quarter largely due to our remediation efforts at Delhi.
We generated over $300 million of cash flow from operations in the third quarter over $1 billion year-to-date meaning that the operating cash flow should more than cover our 2013 capital budget and will allow it to pay a significant portion of the roughly $200 million of common share repurchases we've made so far this year.
Craig will give you a more detailed report on Delhi but I'd like to highlight that our remediation efforts are nearing completion.
We have resumed CO2 injections into the areas surrounding the relatively small part of the field directly impacted by the release.
Our team has worked tirelessly to remediate the field.
And I can assure you that the lessons we've learned are being applied across the organization.
We expect gradual improvement in Delhi's production in the fourth quarter which when you combine it with anticipated tertiary production growth at Hastings Heidelberg Bell Creek and Oyster Bayou that should result in a resumption of company-wide sequential quarterly production growth.
As a result of this delay in the completion of Riley Ridge now expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2014 and some weather related downtime in the Rocky Mountain region in September and October we do see 2013 average production coming in a bit lower than we had perhaps projected last quarter although we still expect it to be slightly above the midpoint of our 2013 production targets.
As noted on last quarter's call we commenced tertiary oil production in Bell Creek Field in Montana in the third quarter.
This is a significant milestone for us as it represents our first tertiary oil production in the Rocky Mountain region.
We anticipate that Bell Creek will be a key driver of our tertiary production growth for many years to come.
With our Analyst Day less than a week away we will not be discussing on this call the outcome of our corporate review process for our 2014 production and capital expenditure guidance numbers.
We'll also try to keep today's operational comments down to a minimum as we will present a complete review on each of our fields at the analyst presentation next Monday.
So with that let's have Mark and Craig give you more details on this quarter.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
In my comments I'll provide you additional color around our Q3 results.
I'll primarily focus on the sequential change the results from Q2.
I'll also provide some guidance for Q4 to help you update your financial models.
Our adjusted net income in non-GAAP measure for Q3 was $165 million or $0.45 per diluted share.
Adjusted net income improved from $0.21 per diluted share in Q2 primarily due to higher oil price realizations partially offset by slight decrease in production volumes.
Adjusted cash flow from operations a non-GAAP measure which excludes working capital changes was $352 million for Q3 or $0.95 per diluted share but it would have been over $0.10 higher if the results were adjusted for the impact of the Delhi remediation charge and higher current income taxes that resulted from an expected delay in the completion of Riley Ridge.
Total production for the quarter came in at just over 71 500 BOE per day down about 3% from Q2 mostly due to decreases at Delhi and Cedar Creek Anticline.
Craig will provide more details on our Q3 production on our Q4 production drivers in his comments.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was $106 per barrel for the quarter which is up from $99 per barrel in the second quarter.
We sold our oil at an average price that as expected was just about in line with NYMEX in Q3 down from the $5 premium we realized in Q2.
The average premium to NYMEX for our tertiary production in the third quarter was about $4 per barrel down from $11 per barrel in Q2 as the difference between LLS and NYMEX pricing continued to narrow during the third quarter.
With current LLS premiums only modestly above NYMEX pricing and the recent widening in Rocky Mountain region differentials at this time we expect our realized oil price differential to range from $3 to $5 below NYMEX in Q4.
Moving to our hedging activity.
With higher NYMEX oil prices during the quarter we paid out a small amount of hedge settlements in the quarter and we also recognized an $80 million pre-tax non-cash loss on a mark-to-market change in our derivative positions.
NYMEX oil prices have declined thus far in Q4 and if they remained near their current levels we would not expect any cash hedge settlements in Q4 and would anticipate a noncash mark-to-market gain on our old derivative positions in Q4.
The objective of our hedging strategy remains the same to protect our exposure to a sharp drop in oil prices while retaining some upside exposure.
We have historically done this with costless collars and during Q3 and we added a combination of NYMEX and LLS-based collars for the third quarter of 2015.
The details of our hedges can be found on our website included in our corporate presentation.
Moving to our operating costs.
We reported additional pre-tax charge of $28 million related to our remediation efforts at Delhi Field in Q3.
This charge increased our current estimate of known cost to remediate the impact of the area of Delhi to $98 million.
These charges do not reflect any potential insurance recoveries for these expenses which we will not report in our financial statements until we determine that receipt is virtually certain.
Excluding the Delhi remediation costs our overall lease operating expense per BOE averaged in the mid-$23 range which is slightly better than our guidance for the quarter.
Looking forward to Q4 we expect LOE per BOE to again be in the mid-20s range but slightly higher than what we saw in Q3.
Again excluding any potential nonrecurring items.
These LOE rates do not include amounts for taxes other than income marketing and CO2 operating costs which you will need to consider separately for your modeling purposes.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $36 million in Q3 which was in line with our expectations but up slightly from Q2.
Of our third quarter G&amp;A expense about $7.5 million was stock-based compensation.
For Q4 we expect G&amp;A expense to be between $35 million and $40 million with approximately $7 million to $10 million of that in stock-based compensation.
Our overall DD&amp;A per BOE was little change from Q2 at about $19.
Looking to Q4 we estimate that our DD&amp;A rate may translate higher to the low $20 per BOE range depending on several factors.
Our effective income tax rate for Q3 was approximately 36% slightly below our estimated statutory rate and about 28% of our income taxes were reported as current.
The impact of differences between our 2012 tax provision and filed tax returns and the impact of revising our estimated completion date of the Riley Ridge to Q1 of 2014 from the fourth quarter of 2013 caused our rates to be lower-than-expected and our cash taxes to be higher-than-expected.
Looking to Q4 we anticipate our effective tax rate to be between 38% and 39% with current taxes representing 10% to 15% of total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Total debt at September 30 was approximately $3.3 billion up slightly from the end of Q2.
We had $310 million drawn on our bank line at the end of Q3 up from $260 million at the end of last quarter.
Based on our current assumptions for cash flows and capital expenditures for the remainder of 2013 we anticipate ending the year with between $200 million and $300 million borrowed on our bank line excluding the impact of any incremental share repurchases in the quarter.
Interest expense.
Net of capitalized interest was $35 million compared to $31 million reported in Q2 mostly due to lower capitalized interest.
Looking to Q4 we expect capitalized interest to decline further to between $10 million and $13 million from about $20 million in Q3.
Our capitalization metrics remained solid and our debt-to-capital ratio was approximately 38% at quarter end and our debt to Q3 annualized EBITDA was just about 2x and would've been a bit lower if the Delhi remediation expense were excluded.
Our 2013 capital budget remains at $1.06 billion plus an estimated $160 million for various items including capitalized internal cost capitalized interest and preproduction start-up costs associated with new tertiary floods.
We have spent about 70% of our full year capital budget through the first 9 months of 2013.
And in the third quarter we were active in our share repurchase program and we spent about $110 million on share repurchases during the quarter bringing our cumulative purchases under the plan since we initiated a little over 2 years ago to about $660 million.
With these purchases we have repurchased about 43 million shares or 11% of our total shares outstanding as of October 2011 at an average price of just under $15.50 per share.
We had $109 million still authorized under this program at the end of Q3 and going forward we intend to remain opportunistic with our share repurchase program.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig for an operational review.
Thank you Mark.
Our tertiary operations performed in line with our estimates in the third quarter.
Oil production averaging just about 37 500 barrels per day.
Our tertiary oil production declined in the quarter due to the previously discussed issues at Delhi and facility downtime at Hastings partially offset by increased production in Oyster Bayou and Heidelberg Fields.
I will discuss the 2 key fields that have material impacts to our tertiary production in the third quarter and they're likely to have the most significant impact over the remainder of 2013.
So let's start with Delhi.
As you recall we halted CO2 injections into the southwesternmost area of Delhi Field beginning late in Q2 as we remediated portions of that area from a release of well fluids.
Our team has made good progress on our remediation efforts during Q3 allowing us to resume CO2 injections into the parts of the field surrounding the area directly impacted by the release leading only a small portion of Delhi into which we are not injecting CO2.
We are doing additional diagnostic work in this small area to ensure the condition of several oil wells is adequate and have isolated it from other CO2 injection wells using water injection wells.
The net result is that we expect a modest increase in Delhi's production in Q4.
Based on actual remediation costs incurred to date we've increased our current estimate for those cost by $28 million to a total of $98 million.
With the primary phase of the remediation nearly complete this represents our current best estimate of nonremediation cost as opposed to last quarter's estimate which reflected our minimum estimate remediation cost.
Let's go to Hastings.
In Hastings production declined somewhat from that second quarter primarily due to facility downtime for repairs and maintenance.
With the expansion of our flood and recycle capacity at Hastings we expect production to increase in the fourth quarter.
Oyster Bayou remains a bright spot for us as the field continues to show steady growth as it responds to our CO2 flood.
The field's production increased 28% from Q2 levels and we anticipate continued production throughout Oyster Bayou in Q4 as the field continues to respond to CO2 injection.
Our Heidelberg CO2 flood was also a bright spot for the quarter with the field's tertiary production increasing 10% from Q2 levels.
We saw continued response from the new areas we're flooding in East Heidelberg and that development continues.
We expect the CO2 response from East Heidelberg to be an important driver of our expected tertiary growth in the fourth quarter.
For our mature area properties production declined by 6% sequentially and was 8% lower than the year ago quarter.
We had held production from these property relatively flat in the first half of the year so the decline reflects a return to their normal decline rate.
For the 9 months ended September 30 mature area property production was 10% lower than the prior year level.
Let's go now to our Rocky Mountain region.
Bell Creek's tertiary production increased gradually during the third quarter as the field responded to the CO2 injections we started earlier this year.
After some limited deliverabilities earlier this year CO2 delivery to Bell Creek has recently been holding near their contracted level of 50 million cubic feet per day which should drive continued production growth in the fourth quarter.
At Grieve Field we continue to inject CO2 and water to build operating pressure and anticipate first oil production late in 2015.
Production from our nontertiary assets decreased to 34 018 barrels of oil equivalent per day from 35 300 in the second quarter primarily due to production declines at Cedar Creek Anticline.
Our Cedar Creek Anticline production including both legacy and newly acquired fields was 18 872 barrels of oil equivalent in the third quarter and that's compared to 19 935 in Q2.
The decline in CCA was primarily attributable to above normal levels of weather and repair-related downtime as well as a higher net profit interest of a third party in the third quarter.
We continue to look for opportunities to increase and/or maintain production on our nontertiary assets in advance to our planned CO2 floods.
Looking at production on a total company basis.
Based on results thus far in the fourth quarter of 2013 we expect both tertiary and total production to be slightly above the midpoint of our estimated ranges for 2013.
I look forward to providing you a more compressive overview of all the tertiary and nontertiary fields at our Analyst Day next Monday.
So let's move on to lease operating expenses.
Our lease operating expense per barrel of equivalent production excluding the Delhi Field charge increased by 4% from the second quarter to $23.24 per BOE in the third quarter.
Operating cost for our tertiary properties excluding the Delhi charge had reached $25.08 per barrel during the third quarter and that's an increase from $23.52 on the prior quarter.
The increase was attributable to the expansion of our CO2 floods primarily Bell Creek and increases in the cost of CO2 related to both higher realized oil prices and additional anthropogenic supply.
Let's move now to our CO2 supply and transportation operations which in general is performing quite well.
In the Gulf Coast region we produced just under 900 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from Jackson Dome during the quarter.
After our first well at Jackson Dome this year was highly successful which added 350 Bcf of reserves our second oil was determined to be uneconomic and the drilling of our third and final well planned for this year is underway.
We continue to expect this year's drilling [indiscernible] Jackson Dome will allow us to fulfill the growing needs of our Gulf Coast CO2 floods.
Moving to our anthropogenic or man-made CO2 sources.
We continue to make progress in increasing our supply.
Today we're currently injecting about 70 million cubic feet per day of CO2 and capture from both Air Products and PotashCorp into Denbury's operated Gulf Coast fields.
Additionally Mississippi Power's power plant currently under construction should be completed in 2014.
And once operational should provide more than 150 million cubic feet per day of CO2 to our Mississippi tertiary operations.
In addition to these sources we're in various stages of discussions with other project sponsors that could further increase our Gulf Coast CO2 sources likely this decade.
In the Rocky Mountain region we now expect natural gas and helium production from Riley Ridge to commence in the first quarter of 2014 which is slightly delayed from our previous estimate of the fourth quarter of this year.
The plant is very near mechanical completion and our team is focused on ensuring a successful start up of this plant which will ultimately become the anchor source of our Rocky Mountain CO2 supply.
CO2 deliveries from ExxonMobil's Shute Creek facility has been steady and we expect to complete the interconnect of our Rocky Mountain CO2 pipeline to the third-party pipeline that transports CO2 from Shute Creek in the fourth quarter.
This interconnect is important as it will allow us to deliver CO2 from Shute Creek to the operated Bell Creek Field allowing us to supplement and diversify our CO2 supply to the field.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Jack.
Okay.
Thank you Craig.
Mary that concludes the management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of David Amoss with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Can you all talk about the level of production response you're going to need to see this year at Bell Creek to book reserves? And then kind of give us a tally of where you might be today.
Well we're optimistic that we'll be able to book them this year although we're still not certain about that.
So we're waiting to see how the fourth quarter does.
I think as Craig mentioned in the third quarter we were a little short on CO2.
And so therefore it kind of delayed our response a little bit.
That was just the supply was a little less -- there were some turnarounds in work at the Conoco plant.
So conceptually production has to be above what it was when it was producing conventionally to be able to book approved reserves.
We're starting to have some discussions with the independent engineers on that.
Like I said we're optimistic but it's not a certainty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple of field level questions.
At Hastings can you kind of give us a little bit more information on the trajectory you're expecting after the third quarter issues? We're expecting the production to grow in the fourth quarter as we continue to develop Hastings.
We had some downtime associated with the turnaround as well as some compressor repairs so that's behind us.
And so that plus just the continued response in the pattern that we expect production to grow at Hastings in Q4 and into the next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean could we model above second quarter or is it going to be somewhere between third quarter and second quarter? We would expect it to be above second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then one more.
Can you quantify the impact of the weather and downtime at CCA this quarter? Mark? I can tell you the cause of it.
We were down for about 8 days due to the weather.
We had a freak snowstorm in the Rockies.
The snowstorm lasted about 2 days.
There was power outage throughout a large number of our fields across Cedar Creek Anticline [indiscernible] and that lasted into about 8 or 9 days.
And we've also had a bit of weather in October as well that we'll factor in.
Our next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> As you're making progress at Delhi how should we think about the Delhi reversionary interest? Well obviously we spent a bit of money there.
So it depends on those dollars plus of course what prices are in 2014.
But I think we're a little hesitant to kind of give a date at this point yet because we're -- we haven't sort of settled how we handle the insurance proceeds.
Are they done on a cash basis or are they estimated and accrued in a payup calculation? So that could swing it several months as you can imagine because we estimate 1/3 or 2/3 of those dollars we recovered with insurance.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then thus far the total cost for remediation $98 million at Delhi.
Just want to clarify when you were going through your prepared commentary earlier were you saying that $98 million was the max that you expected? Or that's -- there still could be a higher level than that? No.
I mean the way we kind of accrued is always kind of the minimum.
It's just that we're feeling much better about the total cost at this point.
I mean we're -- the remediation is nearly done the well that we were working on that was the primary culprit we plugged it that work's done.
We are still working on another well.
There's some -- there's still some open items but we think that we're getting very close to the end.
And so it could be higher.
In fairness it's not going to be less but at least we're nearing the end of the work.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on Cedar Creek Anticline as you think about that asset before you move to CO2 flooding do you see that as an asset that you can meaningfully grow its production before flooding? Or just kind of keep it flattish? I think it'd be difficult to grow CCA but I think if we can mitigate or diminish the decline rate I think we'd call that a success.
So we do kind of plan to spend some money there but I don't think it's going to increase it.
But it's about making not many -- very slight decline or maybe close to flat.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> So I was wondering if you can talk about the current production rate at Delhi.
And -- because I want to kind of get a bit of understanding for how much of the 1 500 BOE per day of oil production that was sort of lost previous quarter.
How much do you think you can regain in your fourth quarter? And how long will it take you to regain that for 1 500 going forward? Well I mean current production is I guess slightly higher than the average in Q3.
As Craig mentioned we expect modest incline in production in Q4.
When you look at quarter-over-quarter numbers it's a little interesting because you don't see the impact month by month.
And one of our lower months I think was probably September.
So we do expect the quarter-over-quarter rate to be slightly or modestly higher in Q4 versus Q3.
But the good news is we believe we've hit the bottom and it's now growing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question regarding the -- with respect to CCA.
So I know you said fourth quarter that number -- production should also come back.
But I -- can you give more color as to how -- because I think in 3Q it was down about 5%.
How -- I guess how fast should we think about that coming -- that growing -- that number to grow in fourth quarter? To manage expectations we probably don't expect it to be significantly different than Q4 from Q3 maybe up just a little bit.
Craig mentioned weather in September.
We also had a bit of weather in October.
So the winter season is starting out a little bit tough.
And we were affected by both of those.
Some of this does relate to oil price the net profit interest.
We had very strong oil prices in Q3 but that takes away volumes.
So that was a bit of a factor.
And some of the work we did right after we purchased the ConocoPhillips assets and we got some flush productions but it maybe declined fairly quickly.
It was just kind of quick fixes.
So we do expect it to maybe be a bit better in Q4 but I wouldn't expect it going back to Q2 levels.
I don't think that's possible.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I may have missed it.
Can you discuss the reason for the delay for Riley Ridge to 1Q '14? I probably just missed it.
Yes.
So the plant modifications we had to make were a bit more significant than originally planned.
Primary cause has been the shortage of contract workers available to us and that slowed the pace of the work.
As I did mention the plant is now essentially mechanically complete and we are at the cusp of starting to commission it.
So we believe early next year that plant will be turned on.
And our next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this was there any discussion for the coming quarter about what the capitalized interest is going to look like? Yes.
We see it decreasing to roughly $10 million to $13 million in Q4 versus roughly $20 million in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And similar trends heading into 2014 as best as you know at this point? Yes.
I think you'll continue to see it trend down slightly and I'll discuss more about that next week.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And -- again sorry if I missed this I was juggling a couple of different calls.
At Tinsley can you just refresh my memory on sort of where operations stand there in terms of the different subphases of the field? I saw production was down sequentially for the quarter a bit.
Well the development for Tinsley is unchanged.
We're developing the North Fault Block that's gone well.
It was down a little bit.
We had a little bit of delay in our development plan there.
We were plugging -- in fact we were plugging some wells in advance of the development so that just slowed the pace of it.
But essentially we're on track to develop Tinsley.
We'll give you more color on that next week for what the plan is for '14 but the takeaway the plan is unchanged at Tinsley.
We're happy with how Tinsley's responding.
A bit of delay last quarter just due to some slight schedules -- schedules slow up.
Tinsley's been relatively flat really if you look at it for the last year or 2 years.
And so it's really -- I mean getting a little vacillation from quarter to quarter to quarter but it's -- but for the most part we expected it to have peaked.
We're just finishing up the areas of the field that we're flooding.
And so it's great.
We don't expect any really growth from Tinsley.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Actually along the same line lifecycle of the floods to the various fields.
I was just sort of struck in the release where you listed the -- that you expected the growth in fourth quarter was going to come from Hastings Heidelberg Bell Creek and Oyster Bayou.
And just thinking about how now you've got 4 fields on the incline and realize I guess this is sort of a mark of things to come.
Isn't that safe to say where instead of having one field that's really going to dictate the growth trajectory that you're going to have the field sort of heading online and then as others mature? I would agree.
I mean it's great to have multiple fields growing.
Our next question comes from the line of David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to just ask about Oyster Bayou if you could give some color there I guess as it relates to your previously expected peak production sort of in the ballpark of where we are now assuming that we're maybe at 3 600 barrels equivalent a day at the end of the quarter so you've had like a pretty attractive ramp there.
Has it changed any of your assumptions about sort of the recoverable oil in place there? Or estimates on peak production? And is this more of a result of sort of barrels that were kind of left behind by prior operators? I don't think we're far enough along to change our recovery rates at this point.
It's something -- usually it takes a little longer before we start adjusting the proved reserves.
I'm going to do first some of this because we're going to talk about our future plans next week.
Anyway if we can if we could push that off I'd appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Glick with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just have a question on the stock buyback program.
It looks like you guys ramped up pretty significantly compared to the prior quarters.
I just was wondering the thought process behind that.
Well we've always kind of try to be opportunistic.
So just to reiterate it depends on the stock price oil price and available capital.
And we thought the stock was a little weak in the third quarter so we picked up a little bit.
And we just -- it's not a real formula but we tend to be just kind of opportunistic depending on those factors.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have no more questions in queue.
I would like to turn it back to Mr.
Collins for final remarks.
Okay.
Thanks Mary.
Thank you all for joining us today.
Before you go let me cover a few housekeeping items for you all.
As a quick reminder we'll be hosting our annual Analyst Day next Monday down in Houston.
Management's presentation at the Analyst Day is scheduled to begin at 1 p.m.
Central time.
A live audio webcast of that presentation will be available on our website.
Also the slides for that presentation and a news release summarizing the key strategic themes of it will be published to our website the afternoon of Sunday November 10.
Phil and Craig will be giving a recap of Analyst Day presentation in New York on Tuesday November 12.
Please contact me or anyone in our investor relations group if you would like to attend either event.
Management will also be presenting at various conferences in the fourth quarter a full schedule of which is available on our website.
The webcast and slides for these presentations will be accessible through the Investor Relations section of our website on the day of the presentation.
Lastly for your calendars we plan to report our fourth quarter 2013 results on Thursday February 20 2014 and hold the conference call that day at our usual time of 10 a.m.
Central.
Thank you again for joining us and we hope to see you all soon.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay today after 12:30 p.m.
Central through March 5 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 260592.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Fourth Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
My name is Tony and I will be your operator for today's conference.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Okay.
Thank you Tony.
And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
With us today on the call from Denbury are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before the call begins let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which are available too on our website at www.denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosure on these measures are provided in today's news release on our website and in our latest 10-K.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Phil Rykhoek.
Thank you Jack.
Thank you for joining us today.
Maybe as introduction here let me just highlight a few of the things that we accomplished in 2013 since this is an annual results conference call.
Some of those of course that we hit our first tertiary oil production booked our first proved tertiary oil reserves in the Rocky Mountain at Bell Creek.
We put our Riley Ridge gas processing plant into service very late in 2013 in the last few days of December.
We've added some man-made CO2 and actually that's given us about 70 million per day from 2 sources in the Gulf Coast and we plan to get some more that will be expanded later this year.
We were able to close on the Cedar Creek Anticline acquisition into March.
That was a tax-free exchange.
That was of course funded with the proceeds from our Bakken transaction.
And on the strategic side that we've announced our intent to augment our shareholder return by initiating quarterly dividends.
We are able to do that by making adjustments to our capital program which allowed us to accelerate our free cash flow with almost no change through our long-term production growth thereby we believe we've increased the total projected shareholder return.
We also increased the certainty of our 2014 cash flow and converted some of our 2014 collars to swaps and we've started to do the same thing in '15.
And I think Mark may cover a little more of that.
The other highlight.
Most recently we've continued our share repurchase program in 2013 and into 2014 and we've now spent $900 million and purchased just over 14% actually approaching 15% from other shares that we had outstanding when we initiated the program in late 2011.
In just the last 2 months we've purchased an additional 4% of the company's outstanding shares increasing our projected production per share growth in 2014 by around 40%.
Said another way or more specifically as a result of the reduced share count we're now expecting about 14% production per share growth in 2014 as compared to about 10% previously.
We're pleased we've been able to purchase this stock at attractive prices as we believe they're very accretive for our shareholders and we're obviously conscious of maintaining our strong capital structure.
Overall given our asset base and strategic focus on CO2 enhanced oil recovery we believe we are positioned to deliver mid to upper single-digit production growth combined with strong dividend growth in the coming years.
With that introduction let the kind of look at a quick recap of 2013 and then Mark and Craig will give you more details.
As we announced last week production was just right on top of our estimates maybe slightly ahead in spite of some weather impacts and delay in completion in the Greencore Pipeline interconnect.
However lower oil prices and higher operating costs combined to lower our bottom-line results on a sequential quarter.
We believe that certain of these higher costs are nonrecurring plus we have made cost reductions one of our key focuses at the company in 2014.
So we expect to show significant progress on cost reductions during this year.
Craig will give you a bit more specifics on things that we're doing to accomplish that.
Looking at production in 2014 we have started a little bit behind due to a combination of weather and delay in the Greencore Pipeline interconnect.
The impact of these items combined with a recently planned shutdown of our Riley Ridge gas processing facility for the month of December for maintenance and improvements have led us to conclude we will likely be in the lower half of previously estimated production ranges for 2014.
Again just as a reminder though if you look at production growth on a per-share basis our production metrics has still improved over prior guidance as our recent stock repurchases have accumulated 4% of the outstanding shares.
We are also encouraged by some recent production trends particularly at Bell Creek where production's begun to respond as expected with the completion of the Greencore Pipeline interconnect.
What that does is that allows us to transport the CO2 that we owned from ExxonMobil Shute Creek plant to Bell Creek Field.
Bell Creek's tertiary production recently exceeded 500 barrels a day up from the fourth quarter average of 177.
On a non-tertiary side we also had some positive results.
If you recall one of the reasons we elected to defer CO2 floodings at several of our fields was to give us the opportunity to first pursue these conventional projects which we believe generate an attractive rate of return and also increase the amount of oil we ultimately recover.
At Hartzog we've now drilled and completed our first 2 infill horizontal wells in chain [ph] formation.
The first well posted an initial 30-day production rate of about 400 barrels a day.
That was in line with our pre-drill estimates even though the horizontal section was a little bit shorter than planned.
We just started pumping the second well a few days ago.
Based on the initial rates we've seen we expect this initial 30-day production rate to meet or exceed that of the first one.
We plan to drill 6 additional wells at Hartzog this year first of which was spud a few days ago and we've identified 30 locations we plan to drill over the next few years.
I'll conclude my remarks by saying that we remain focused on increasing shareholder value by optimizing the development of our attractive asset base with an emphasis on cost reductions in 2014.
With the recent hedge -- oil hedge conversion and current outlook for '14 we are well positioned to more than fund our planned capital expenditures and dividends for the year with cash flow from operations.
Our first ever dividend payment will be paid on March 25.
We continue to anticipate growing the dividend to an annualized rate of $0.50 to $0.60 next year from the current annualized rate of $0.25 per share.
We believe in our strategy and its long-term economic benefits and we expect to create value for our shareholders through a combination of growth dividends and share repurchases.
And with that I'll let Mark and Craig give you more details.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
My comments will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release primarily focusing on the sequential changes from the third quarter.
I'll also provide some forward-looking estimates to help you in updating your financial models.
Our non-GAAP adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was approximately $100 million down $65 million from the third quarter of 2013 due primarily to lower realized oil prices higher DD&amp;A expense and higher lease operating expense.
These negative impacts were partially offset by a lower estimated income tax rate for Q4.
Our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $295 million for Q4 down approximately $55 million from Q3 primarily driven by lower oil prices.
Total production for the quarter came in at just below 71 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day roughly flat with Q3 as growth -- as number of our tertiary floods was offset by non-tertiary declines.
Craig will provide more details on our Q4 production and our production drivers going forward in his comments.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was $93 per barrel for the quarter down 12% from the $106 per barrel average in the third quarter.
Relative to NYMEX prices the oil price we received was roughly $4.50 below NYMEX prices in Q4 compared to roughly flat with NYMEX levels in Q3.
The average premium to NYMEX in Q4 for our Gulf Coast tertiary production which primarily receives LLS pricing was about $0.30 per barrel down approximately $4 per barrel from Q3 as LLS prices were negatively impacted by additional pipeline capacity into the market.
This was by far the lowest premium we have had for our Gulf Coast tertiary production in the last 3 years.
In the Rocky Mountain region the NYMEX price differential for our Cedar Creek Anticline production was the widest we have experienced in the last few years as well on a combination of increasing oil production and less demand due to refinery downtime.
Our Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain region oil price differentials have improved somewhat thus far in 2014 and we currently expect that our differentials will be slightly negative to NYMEX by $1 or $2 in the first quarter and then hopefully back closer to even to NYMEX after that.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
Our move to a growth and income focus and increase in our share buyback activity has increased the importance of our oil price certainty.
Because of this in December we converted our 2014 oil collars to fixed-price swaps averaging approximately $93 per barrel for 2014.
Additionally we have converted some of our 2015 collars to fixed-price swaps and will likely continue to do so if we are able to lock in prices that line up with our long-term model.
Full details of our hedging positions are shown on the updated investor presentation that was posted to our website this morning.
Moving on to our operating costs.
We reported pretax charge of $16 million to lease operating expense in Q4 related to the Delhi Field incident bringing our total expense related to this incident to $114 million the majority of which has already been spent.
These charges reflect our estimated costs to remediate area and cover other estimated costs associated with the release.
However it is possible that other charges could arise that are not estimable or known at this time.
This charge also does not reflect any potential insurance recoveries for these expenses which we are not able to record until receipt is virtually certain.
Excluding the Delhi charge our overall tertiary lease operating expense increased sequentially on a per-BOE basis from Q3 primarily due to the startup of Bell Creek in the fourth quarter which has a high unit operating cost during the early startup phase and increase in our workover expenses and higher CO2 costs primarily as a result of the addition of higher-cost man-made CO2 supply.
I would note that our full year 2013 operating costs per BOE excluding the Delhi charge was about $24 per BOE which is at the lower end of our expectations and though it -- which was [indiscernible] be in the mid-$20 per BOE range.
For 2014 we expect our overall LOE to be in the mid-20s on a $1 per BOE range basis excluding any potential additional Delhi-related remediation expenses.
And I would expect the first quarter might be slightly higher with the slower production start to the year.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $34 million in Q4 down from $36 million in Q3.
For the fourth quarter about $9 million of our G&amp;A expense was stock-based compensation.
For 2014 we expect G&amp;A expenses to be in the upper $30 million to mid-$40 million range each quarter with approximately $7 million to $10 million of that in stock-based compensations.
You should expect the first quarter will be near the upper end of the range due to taxes associated with the bonus and long-term incentive payments in the quarter.
For depletion depreciation and amortization our overall DD&amp;A per BOE increased to about $22 per barrel in Q4 from $19 in Q3 primarily due to Bell Creek costs being added to our depletion calculation increased finding and development costs and increases in CO2 and other fixed asset depreciation.
This was slightly higher than our guidance of $20 to $21 per BOE as we had larger than unusual depreciation in our other our fixed assets this period which increased our rate by approximately $1 per BOE.
For 2014 we expect our DD&amp;A rate to average between $21 and $22 per BOE.
Our effective income tax rate for Q4 was approximately 31% as our estimated statutory rate decreased from 38% -- sorry from 38.5% to 38% during the quarter.
And the impacts of other true-ups in our estimated taxes for the year were also recognized in the quarter.
Current income taxes represented a $13 million benefit in Q4 since the placement of Riley Ridge into service allowed us to recognize certain associated tax benefits that were not previously anticipated in our tax provision.
For 2014 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 37% and 38% with current taxes representing between 20% and 30% of total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Total debt at December 31 was approximately $3.3 billion nearly unchanged from September 30 levels.
We had $340 million drawn on our bank line at December 31 up from $310 million at the end of Q3 and we ended Q4 with roughly $12 million in cash.
Based on our current assumptions for cash flows and capital expenditures for 2014 along with our share repurchases to date we anticipate ending the year with bank debt between $500 million and $600 million excluding the impact of any incremental share repurchases in 2014.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was $40 million an increase from $35 million in Q3 mostly due to a $5 million reduction in capitalized interest following the start-up of the Bell Creek CO2 flood.
With the placement of Riley Ridge into service we expect capitalized interest to decline further in 2014 to between $5 million and $10 million per quarter with the amount being closer to the lower end of the range early in the year and increasing throughout the year.
Our capitalization metrics remained solid as our debt-to-capital ratio was approximately 38% at quarter end and our debt to 2013 EBITDA was about 2.4x and it would have been about 2.2x if the Delhi remediation and other nonrecurring items were excluded.
Our 2014 capital budget remains at $1.0 billion plus an estimated $125 million for other items including capitalized interest internal acquisition exploration and development costs and preproduction EOR startup costs.
As Phil mentioned we've been actively repurchasing stock over the last few months spending about $250 million on share repurchases in the fourth quarter and to-date in 2014.
With these purchases we have repurchased over 14% of our total shares outstanding since October 2011 an average price of just under $15.70 per share and we have $250 million remaining authorized under our program.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig for an operational review.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Total company production for the quarter was 71 466 barrels of oil equivalent per day resulting in the full year production coming in just above the midpoint of 2013 guidance.
Our tertiary operations performed in line with our estimates in the fourth quarter oil production averaging just above 38 600 barrels per day.
Our tertiary oil production increased on a sequential quarter basis due to continued growth at Heidelberg and Oyster Bayou fields improved production facility run time at Hastings increased CO2 injection at Delhi and a gradual production response at Bell Creek.
These increases were partially offset by continued declines at our mature tertiary fields.
As you will recall we halted CO2 injection into the southwesternmost area of our Delhi Field beginning late in Q2 as we remediated portions of that area from a release of well fluids.
We have resumed injection into all but the directly impacted area of the field and as a result sequential production increased by nearly 280 barrels per day.
We anticipate Delhi's production to be relatively flat at the fourth quarter level in 2014 until the reversionary interest occurs later in the year.
At Hastings sequential production increased by about 570 barrels per day in Q4 as the facility run time improved and newer areas of the field began to respond to CO2 injection.
We do expect production growth in 2014 at Hastings as additional patterns began to respond to CO2 injection.
Oyster Bayou continues to show steady growth increasing about 660 barrels per day sequentially in Q4.
We are currently developing a lower A-2 Zone at Oyster Bayou and optimizing the initial A-1 Zone.
As a result we see additional production growth at Oyster Bayou in the second half of 2014 as we start seeing a production contribution from the A-2 Zone late in the year.
Heidelberg was another bright spot for the quarter with the field's tertiary production increasing by about 650 barrels per day from Q3 levels.
We do expect production growth from Heidelberg in 2014 as our development program will focus on expanding the Christmas Zone development on the east part of the field.
For our mature area tertiary properties production declined by 8% sequentially and was 12% lower year-over-year.
The sequential quarter decline was a result of the combination of factors including some weather-related downtime and a temporary shutting of several wells for planned workovers.
We have various capital projects planned that we anticipate will lower our mature area production decline in 2014.
With that let's move to the Rocky Mountain region.
Bell Creek's tertiary production increased gradually during the fourth quarter as the field continued to respond to the CO2 injection we started earlier in the year.
Even though our CO2 source volumes from ConocoPhillips were lower than planned the oil production response to the field has recently increased as we've been able to augment our CO2 supply for the field with our CO2 from ExxonMobil's Shute Creek plant following the completion of our Greencore Pipeline interconnect.
We do anticipate tertiary production at Bell Creek to grow throughout 2014 and for the CO [ph] to be a key driver of our overall planned tertiary growth for the year.
At Grieve Field in Wyoming we continue to inject CO2 and water to build operating pressure and we anticipate first oil production in 2015.
Production from our non-tertiary assets decreased to 32 863 barrels of oil equivalent per day from 34 018 in the third quarter primarily due to production declines at our non-tertiary Texas and Rocky Mountain fields.
Our Shute Creek gas line production was 18 601 barrels of oil equivalent in the fourth quarter compared to 18 872 in Q3.
The decline in non-tertiary production was primarily attributable to above-normal levels of weather interruptions and repair-related downtime.
Our team continues to look for opportunities to enhance production on our non-tertiary assets in advance of our planned CO2 floods.
Phil mentioned and gave overview of our initial Hartzog Draw drilling results and we've been encouraged also by our recent Cedar Creek Anticline results.
During the fourth quarter we drilled 3 new horizontal wells in CCA which had average initial 30-day production rates of approximately 160 barrels of oil per day.
That exceeds our pre-drill expectations by over 20%.
In 2014 we plan to drill 11 more horizontal wells which will be part of the multi-year program to further develop the water flood.
Similar to Hartzog these horizontal wells in CCA will have utility both in the current water flood and the subsequent CO2 flood.
I'll move now to the lease operating expenses.
Our lease operating expense per barrel of equivalent production excluding the Delhi Field charge increased by 13% from the third quarter to $26.24 per BOE in the fourth quarter.
Operating costs for our tertiary properties excluding the Delhi charge averaged $28.72 per barrel during the fourth quarter and that's an increase from $25.08 in the prior quarter.
The sequential increase in quarterly LOE excluding Delhi reflects more workover activity additional operating costs during the startup phase at Bell Creek and higher cost of man-made CO2s.
The increased workover activity resulted in approximately $2 of BOE increase compared to the previous quarter.
The increased workover activity represents an emphasis in the quarter on several P&amp;A wells' well integrity conformance work and a unusually high number of extensive well repairs.
Much of this work will be nonrecurring and we expect our overall 2014 operating costs to be in the mid-$20s per barrel.
Although man-made CO2 has raised our operating cost it has reduced our CO2 capital cost in particular at Jackson Dome where it effectively replaces the drilling of several CO2 wells.
We have various initiatives underway across the company to reduce both our operating costs and our capital costs.
So let me drive through few of them.
We have a team looking at different designs of our future CO2 facilities to reduce the cost to build them and install them.
We're spending more time evaluating multiple field development options to find the optimum development plan to maximize the value of the field.
We're placing more emphasis on improving the run time of our compression through improved maintenance and reliability.
We're focused on optimizing our very large usage of electricity.
For us employing the use of root-cause failure analysis to understand -- understand each equipment or well failure and why it occurs so that we can fix the root cause preventing the failure from being repeated.
Our objective is to continue Denbury's tradition of moving quickly while also challenging ourselves to optimize each component of our business and looking for new ideas.
Let's move now to our CO2 supply and transportation operations which in general are performing quite well and fulfilling our need in our growing demand from tertiary oil production operations.
In the Gulf Coast region we've produced just under 900 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from Jackson Dome during the quarter.
We continue to make good progress in increasing our supply of man-made CO2 sources.
Today we're currently injecting about 70 million cubic feet per day of CO2 being captured from both Air Products and PotashCorp into Denbury operated Gulf Coast fields.
Additionally we should begin receiving about 115 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from Mississippi Power's plant to our Mississippi tertiary operations late this year.
In addition to these sources we're in various stages of discussions with other project sponsors that could further increase our Gulf Coast CO2 sources later this decade.
In the Rocky Mountain region we've recently announced that we placed the Riley Ridge gas processing plant into service late in 2013 slightly ahead of our previously estimated in-service date of the fourth quarter of this year.
We are currently selling both methane and helium from the plant and are reinjecting the residual CO2-enhancing gas.
As is typical of most new complex processing plants we're learning how to optimize equipment and process so our run time could have been intermittent but they are also steadily improving.
Also we did have some operational downtime in the first quarter when the supply of electricity was temporarily stopped.
We will have a month of previously unplanned downtime in summer related to a turnaround during which we plan to perform some maintenance and make some modest low-cost improvements to increase the operability of the plant.
Overall Riley Ridge is well on its way to ultimately becoming our anchor source of CO2 in the Rocky Mountain regions.
With that let's talk about proved reserves.
Last week we announced our year-end 2013 proved reserve for 468 million barrels of oil equivalent.
We have 2 significant reserve additions which enable a 330% reserve replacement during the year.
We added 34 million barrels from our new CO2 flood at Bell Creek and also added 43 million barrels from acquisitions primarily Cedar Creek Anticline.
The estimated discounted net present value of our proved reserves before income taxes was $10.6 billion.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Jack.
Okay.
Thanks Craig.
Tony that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] And first in queue is Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just if I heard you right Craig I think you said that Delhi -- you expect it to be flat for 2014.
Can you just walk through kind of what you see the life cycle of that field doing with obviously the issues last year? Is that going to be flat this year and then hopefully start to increase or where are we out there? I think it will be flat through the end of the third quarter when we have our reversionary interest.
When our reversionary interest occurs the production will drop proportionately.
We do expect productions to start growing in 2015 as we continue development of that field.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's with the interest and then it'll grow from there on a gross basis.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just the only other thing I was just curious on is on the share buybacks.
I mean you still got $250 million left -- I mean I know the party line has been when you're under the proven asset value which is obviously well ahead of where you are at on a stock price basis.
I mean what is the comfort level as far as that $250 million or maybe even extending that further depending on where you see the value there? Well it's subject to board authorization and of course it's a bit subjective.
I think the key thing to continued buybacks of course pieces value relative to NAV the current oil price et cetera but we also have to look at how we fund it and what that does for our balance sheet.
So I think to the extent that we spend the full $250 million or possibly extend that I mean I think we'd have to look for ways to fund it which most likely would mean potentially a trade for capital expenditures.
Our next question in queue will come from Arun Jayaram from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Phil just a quick question.
When you shifted to the value-over-volumes strategy you talked about Denbury embracing an execution culture.
We've seen some issues at Delhi at Riley Ridge and some timing delays at Bell Creek.
I just wanted to see if you could comment -- do you think these are isolated in nature? And as we move for the '14 and '15 what are some of the risks that we should maybe pay closer attention to as you look to execute your program? Well I think that's an excellent question.
When we said that we were focusing on that we obviously had a little bit of a precursor of what was happening.
That's one of the downside of doing results in February just looking back at the fourth quarter.
So we knew there were some of these issues out there that was part of the impetus to really focus on cost reductions.
We do think as Craig mentioned many -- much of this is nonrecurring.
Workover costs were a couple of bucks higher than normal.
Normal trend if you look at it is about $3 a barrel.
It was nearly $6 actually $5.70.
So I think we are in that transition of getting the results.
I think it may take us just a little bit before you see some really improved results.
But this was -- kind of started late last year; and unfortunately the results we're talking about today most of those operation results were before we really kind of pushed this.
Research Division</strong> And just zeroing in on Bell Creek I know you were having some -- a little bit of intermittent supply issues from the Lost Cabin Creek plant.
With Shute Creek and the interconnect done are you good in terms of having a reliable CO2 supply to Bell Creek? Well it's much better.
I mean conceptually just to tone the details a little bit I believe if you've -- well I know you follow this but for the ones who maybe haven't we were expecting the interconnect to be finished in late November.
Instead partly due to permitting and so forth it was finished in late January.
Today we're getting a lot of CO2 into Bell Creek.
We're seeing it respond nicely.
But conceptually we're probably 30 to 60 days behind.
So if you look at the production growth curve it's just lagging.
And it's -- we're not concerned about the trajectory.
We're not concerned about the response.
It's just a timing issue because we weren't able to get as much CO2 there as we'd hoped.
Now we're getting the CO2 from Exxon and we still are reliant obviously on ConocoPhillips also.
So to the extent that they have good run time there that will obviously help.
They had a few -- we had a few problems kind of third quarter and into fourth but late in the fourth quarter the Conoco was a bit more consistent.
Research Division</strong> My last question Phil regarding Riley Ridge at the plant turnaround.
Are there going to be any operating costs that flow through LOE for that turnaround? Or is it going to go be all capitalized? And just maybe some help on what that -- how much capital for that turnaround? This is Craig.
It's -- the total cost I'm not quite sure of the split between CapEx and OpEx but the cost of that is probably $5 million or $6 million.
Our next question will come from David Amoss with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to kind of get into a little bit more of the nitty-gritty at your mature properties.
It looks like that you mentioned there is a little bit of a larger sequential decline there 4Q versus 3Q and weather -- a combination of weather some workovers.
Can you kind of go into the details of what the weather impact was in 4Q? Why you're doing more workovers and well repairs? And then how that's kind of bled into the first quarter and what you expect the trend to be there at the mature properties through 2014? Well I'll start.
So we'll start with some of the weather-related events.
We did have some pretty severe weather really throughout our Gulf Coast assets in the fourth quarter unexpected and so in particular we had some power outages.
When the power turns off our compressors stop and it's a significant impact.
I don't have that weather-related downtime quantified.
That was a pretty big impact.
The increase in workover costs was a bit of a rash of well sizers [ph] as well as well integrity issues that we [indiscernible] on.
So they were in particular extensive relative to our average costs of work-around.
I think that's just an anomalous event.
I think we'll get back to our average cost of a workover but obviously we had an increase there.
We also had -- part of the increased cost there is a focus on P&amp;As and so we've had some additional work really in response to -- as we learned from the Delhi event we've left our threshold and standard of what's an acceptable well and what's an acceptable flood so that requires us to do some more well integrity work and some more P&amp;A work.
So that's really what's driving that fourth quarter increase in workovers.
I'd add one more component to that: it goes back to Phil's comment about optimization.
But we're doing more work on conformance and we saw some opportunities to better optimize our floods and so there was a big emphasis in the fourth quarter for some conformance work.
So all of that combined added to an increased focus of spending in the mature assets.
And frankly because we had some wells down because we're working on them production was a bit off there relative to what'll happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's really helpful.
And just one more.
Can you talk about the Rockies differentials.
I mean you had some refinery downtime.
It sounds like there's some transportation constraints.
I mean is all that kind of behind you at this point or does that bleed through into the first half of '14 as well? Into the first couple of months or month or 2 here but we are seeing it right now turning back to kind of historical norms which is kind of in the $6 to $7 minus range NYMEX.
So yes we had the refinery issue.
I think in St.
Paul that kind of carried into Q4 and just caused some bottlenecks and price impacts there.
So we are seeing that turn around as well as in the Gulf Coast so the LLS has widened back out a bit now.
So we're feeling good about where we sit there.
Our next question and you will come from Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions from me.
Craig going back to the Rockies conventional drilling what are the formations being targeted for 2014? I think you had mentioned about 11 wells to be drilled.
Are those all Shannon wells or is it a combination of targets? No it's Shannon.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All Shannon.
What are the costs for the new wells? Costs us about $7 million $7.5 million.
That's gross.
That's gross yes.
By net it's $5 million to $6 million.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Bell Creek reserves -- I know you were able to book a good amount in last year's year-end report.
Based on where we are now how much is left to bring to 1P and what's the approximate timing there? You mean bring to 3P? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bring to proved.
I'm not sure I followed your question.
At Bell Creek? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well we booked 34 million barrels at Bell Creek.
We estimate the total reserves there of 40 million to 50 million.
So it could be 5 million to 15 million more I think if that answers question.
That's not too atypical of how we book many of our floods.
Usually it's in the 75% range at the estimated 3P number and this one came out pretty close to that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you don't anticipate bringing in any more prove there for the next year or 2? Yes.
I use that -- Yes.
No I wouldn't expect anything in the next year or 2.
I think there would be potential to add to that say 4 or 5 years out.
Our next question in queue will come from Brian Kuzma [ph] with Fitcom [ph].
I just wanted to follow up on your anthropogenic sourcing of CO2 in terms of what's the relative supply cost there relative to using Jackson Dome? And then also you had mentioned some sort of CapEx savings from procuring it elsewhere.
What would you have had to spend to kind of -- to get that level of CO2? Well our Jackson Dome CO2 is it is by far the cheapest that we have cost I believe it's in the $0.30 to $0.40 operating cost and there is probably another $0.10 of DD&amp;A.
So -- and you're probably approaching $0.50 in Mcf for Jackson Dome.
The anthropogenic on the other hand is probably close to twice that.
We hesitate to give precise numbers because it does vary a bit by contract.
But generally it approaches $1 again with some variability.
We also have similar cost of CO2 from the Lost Cabin plant.
ConocoPhilips is also on that same general range.
Although the CO2 they're getting from Exxon is quite a bit less of course we prepay for most of that.
So there is a bit of variability.
We of course have the Mississippi power plant coming on later this year and we anticipate that it will -- maybe it's more than Jackson Dome but maybe a little less than some of the current anthropogenic.
So I don't know if that gives you a flavor.
It's in some way I guess it's the range of say $0.40 to $0.50 at Jackson Dome to up to $1 or may be just a little bit above for some of the others.
Yes and the well.
Of course the well cost -- we don't have to drill wells like we did for these anthropogenics or of course you say about 15 million or 16 million per well that we're drilling in Jackson Dome and that 70 million a day replaced at least 1 well maybe 2.
Yes.
And the anthropogenic is concert rate forever.
The production out at the Jackson Dome declined so eventually you got to keep spending that money to get that constant rate.
And then going back to this mature field declines that you guys are seeing what are your total proved reserves on just the mature fields? If you wait one second we probably can give you that.
Maybe while you look that up just to put it in context.
Like when I think of CO2 declines I'm typically thinking like 5% kind of terminal declines and yet it looks like so it's down 12% this year it looks like it was down 13% in '12.
Is like -- is there something else going on other than just flat decline? And is there any way that you can actually get this production back up? Yes.
Well one the answer to your first question.
I believe we were just under 50 million barrels of reserves on mature properties.
Actually there'll be detail on some of this with the 10-K we hope to file next week.
And there'll be a schedule in there that has this.
Back to your question 12%.
I mean normally I've always tried to guide people to around 10% so it's not too far off.
We actually anticipate the decline in 2014 to be less than 10% or i.e.
maybe offsetting a little bit of the overreach in 2013.
As Craig said some of that was kind of -- I think you've check-focused too much on fourth quarter rate because there was a little bit of weather and other things in the fourth quarter but we are actively working to manage the conformance which coincidentally was part of the LOE cost.
And so we would think -- I mean if you look kind of long term I think 10% is a fair rate.
We think '14 will be a little bit less than that.
So then like when Tinsley goes into decline will it have a long plateau period or does it go into 10% decline in '15-'16 time frame? Well it actually has been in a plateau if you look at it the last what 3 years or '12 and '13 and probably '14 are in that 8 000-barrel-a-day range.
So it's kind of in that plateau period now.
It is finishing up the last bit of work there so probably in next year in '15 it probably will start declining.
Typically the decline gets a little bit faster in their first year or 2.
And if you look we have that in our slide show I think we showed the initial decline rates by field in our slide show and I think we've saved like 15% and up to 25%  Yes.
So normally your first year or 2 will be a bit steeper and then it will slow down.
The next question will come from Robert Bellinski with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one from me following-up on those new wells for the Hartzog Draw.
Maybe I missed this earlier but can you give us some sense of what led you to drill that horizontal shorter that you planned? Well for the first well we ran into some drilling difficulties so we called it short.
Being able to keep spending the money in incremental value -- we thought we [indiscernible] we did.
So that's the reason.
We finished the second well.
It actually came in -- we got all the TD and it actually came in under cost.
So we believe we've optimized that flood and we continue to frankly we think we've got optimization opportunities on the drilling cost.
We're very optimistic.
Our next question in queue will come from Stephen Shepherd with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to better delineate the drivers behind the decision to now target the well into the '14 production guidance range.
To what extent if you have the ability to break this out is that being driven by the Riley Ridge shutdown versus weather versus other variables? Is one item a larger driver than any of the others or are there any other factors that led to that? Just trying to get some more detail there.
Well it's really the -- it's probably the latter 2.
I mean I don't think weather hurts us in January but obviously we don't anticipate that going forward and it probably wasn't a huge driver.
We did have facility shutdown for a couple of days because of lack of power at some of our EOR fields.
So it didn't help us of course.
But we can say that's a more minor effect.
But shutting down Riley Ridge for a month or an estimated month is a few hundred barrels a day to the annual average.
And we talked about earlier there was a question on Bell Creek.
I mean Bell Creek is responding well but it's probably running 60 days behind.
So when you kind of factor that in and Bell Creek's one of the strong drivers of 2014 that's why we kind of focused on those.
I mean if you split hairs you can obviously find pros and cons in various fields but we felt like those 2 are probably what kind of led us to think it's going to be hard to recover at Bell Creek and you're not going to recover Riley Ridge unless we can do that turnaround faster than a month.
Our next question in queue will come from Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed couple of these from earlier but in the financials I have a couple of questions.
The capitalized interest for the quarter I think was a good bit higher than what the guidance was for fourth quarter.
Is that a trend that'll continue? No I think it was around $15 million down from $20 million in the prior quarter and we see that dropping between $5 million and $10 here per quarter in 2014 with the first quarter being on the lower end of the range.
With Bell Creek being on and also with Riley Ridge going into service in late Q4 those were 2 of the items that we had capitalized interest on that will not be there going forward so it'll drop a fair a bit of early in the year.
Research Division</strong> And one other line in the income statement that trend a little differently was I saw in the revenues the CO2 sales and transportation fees were I think higher than they had been before.
Is that related to the man-made CO2? Not the man-made.
That really relates to just our CO2 sales and transportation fees through pipelines and such.
So yes it was maybe up $1 million from a year ago.
So it just has to do with amount of CO2 we're moving through.
Research Division</strong> And just one other thing.
On Delhi if I understood the comments right pretty much it looks like the remediation costs that are anticipated have essentially been set aside.
But I think you did mention something about -- it's not impossible that there could be some other charges.
Do you have any idea of sort of what the nature and maybe the size of those might be sort of worst-case scenario? No.
A lot -- most of the surface that we remediated -- it was work pretty much done with our cleanup at this point now.
We do still have some potential claims from third parties for various things and we've tried to kind of estimate those.
But those obviously could vary and I think that's where you might see the variability going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do think it'll take most of the rest of the year to get those third-party items cleaned up or do you think they'll get wrapped up more quickly? It depends on how nice to us they are.
I mean it's -- it could get solved very quickly or it could even be litigated.
Kind of the same thing with the insurance proceeds.
We're working on that.
But that could obviously take us a couple of years to settle those numbers because we'll have to negotiate it and potentially even litigate it.
Our next question in queue will come from Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
I was wondering if you can help us a bit more with the production ramp in 2014.
Just thinking that -- it seems like first quarter production with the -- most of the impact on the lower guidance range is coming from the -- is going to impact 1Q.
So is that a fair -- so 1Q -- I'm just trying to understand better the ramp of production in '14? It's really pretty steady I think that January is going to be a bit light because of some of the weather and some of those issues and also Riley Ridge was still kind of starting and stopping and making adjustments.
Riley Ridge is now producing what was the number 9 million a day? Yes.
So it's kind of on forecast right at the moment.
But we kind of have -- I mean we generally have pretty steady growth throughout the year.
Thank you very much.
At this time there is no additional questions in queue.
Please continue.
Okay.
Before you all go let me cover a few housekeeping items on the conference front.
Several members of our management team will be participating in Investor conferences over the next few months.
Please check the Investor Relations section of our website for the details on these presentations including the webcast and the slides for them.
Also please note on your calendars that we plan to report our first quarter 2014 results on Thursday May 1 conference call that day at our usual time of 10 a.m.
Central.
Thanks again for joining us today and don't hesitate to contact any of us with follow-up questions.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12:30 p.m.
Central Time today running through May 20 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing (800) 475-6701 and using the access code of 260593.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources First Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
My name is Stacy and I will your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to remind everyone this conference is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Stacy and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
Presenting on today's call from Denbury will be Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin the call let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-Q and today's news release all of which are available to you on our website at denbury.com.
Also during the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosure on these measures are provided in today's news release and on our website.
With that introduction I will turn the call over to Phil Rykhoek.
Thanks Jack.
I'm happy to report that our financial and operational results are off to a positive start in 2014.
We had a 3% organic increase in production on a sequential quarter basis with gains both in tertiary and non-tertiary production.
Tertiary reached a new record quarterly high in nearly 40 000 barrels a day on continued response through our expansion of the Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain CO2 floods.
Non-tertiary also increased as we had fewer weather-related interruptions and benefited from some of the development work I do on those properties.
As we discussed on the last quarter call we have placed a high emphasis this year on reducing costs throughout the organization.
We have a number of internal initiatives underway focused on this objective.
Although we're just getting started and have much more to do I'm pleased to report that in general our overall operating results improved slightly on a sequential quarter basis at least in part due to this initiative.
For example lease operating expenses were down a few percentage points on a per barrel BOE basis which coupled with a 3% increase in production and increase in our cash flow from operations.
However you may notice that at first glance our cash flow from operations decreased slightly sequentially as the reduction in operating costs and higher production were offset primarily by higher G&amp;A interest expense and cash taxes.
If we take a closer look the increase in G&amp;A was primarily a seasonal increase as the first quarter is almost always the highest quarter of the year.
The apparent increase in interest expense is not an increase in out-of-pocket interest cost at all as they were essentially flat sequentially but rather a lower capitalized interest amount due to the completion of projects in 2013.
Or said another way we simply categorized more of our interest cost as capital this quarter and -- I mean less I'm sorry.
Less as capital and more was expense.
Lastly our current tax provision went back to a more normal level in Q1 after the current tax benefit we recorded in Q4 associated with the startup of our Riley Ridge gas processing facility.
If you recall in Q4 we had a negative current tax provision which kind of distorts the sequential quarterly comparisons.
So if you sort through the numbers our overall operational results are improving oil prices have remained strong and I'm also pleased to announce we were able to improve our cash flow by refinancing $1 billion of sub-debt in April at a 33% lower interest rate.
All this means is that we remain on track this year to cover our capital expenditures and dividends with cash flow from operations.
As you know we officially became an income stock with the payment of our first quarterly dividend in March.
And last week we announced our second quarterly dividend both of these at an annualized rate at $0.25 per share.
Based on our current outlook we still expect to grow our dividend to an annualized rate of $0.50 to $0.60 per share in 2015.
On the share buyback we have been active early in the year but have not purchased much since our last call in February.
We've acquired a total of about 15% of our common shares since we initiated the program in 2011 at an average price of $15.68 and these purchases have significantly improved our per share metrics.
I'm not sure the market's totally taking these repurchases into account when they value Denbury.
As an example on an average diluted per share basis our quarterly average production actually increased 7% sequentially in Q1 more than double the 3% growth in our absolute average daily production volumes as a result of these share repurchases early in the year.
We believe our stock remains a highly attractive investment and we will continue to use our discretion to purchase stock from time to time depending on stock price oil price free cash flow leverage and other funding sources.
But with that introduction I'll now turn it over to Mark and Craig to give you more details on the quarter and our current outlook.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
My comments will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release primarily focusing on the sequential changes from the fourth quarter.
I have also provided some forward-looking estimates to help you in updating your financial models to reflect our current outlook for the second quarter and the remainder of 2014.
Our non-GAAP adjusted net income for the first quarter was $89 million down $11 million from the fourth quarter.
Although oil prices improved from Q4 to Q1 the payments on our hedges offset most of that improvement and the benefit of higher production and lower lease operating expense this quarter was more than offset by higher seasonal G&amp;A expense a reduction in capitalized interest meaning higher interest expense and a higher tax rate compared to the abnormally low rate in Q4.
Our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $289 million for Q1 also down slightly from the prior quarter for the same reasons.
Our average realized oil price excluding derivative settlements was slightly less than $98 per barrel for the quarter up from $93 per barrel in the fourth quarter.
However including derivative settlements our realized oil prices are only up about $0.50 per barrel from the fourth quarter.
Average NYMEX oil prices in Q1 improved by about $1 per barrel from the prior quarter.
So you can see that the majority of the increase in our realized oil price was the result of improvements in our oil differentials or the price we receive relative to NYMEX prices.
Last quarter our NYMEX differential averaged over $4.50 negative to NYMEX as compared to $1 less than NYMEX this quarter.
Our oil differentials improved across-the-board.
And our Gulf Coast tertiary production which primarily receives LLS pricing averaged over $3.50 per barrel above NYMEX up over $3.25 per barrel from Q4.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential improved over $4.50 per barrel selling at just under $9 per barrel relative to NYMEX this quarter.
We have recently seen both LLS and Rockies differentials weaken somewhat relative to Q1 levels.
And therefore we currently expect that our differentials may remain negative to NYMEX prices by $3 to $4 per barrel in the second quarter.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
In an effort to provide more certainty around future cash flows in order to execute our long-term business model we have converted about 40% of our 2015 collars to fixed-price swaps at a weighted average price of about $92.70.
We have oil hedges in place for a significant portion of our forecasted proven oil production to the third quarter of 2015 including fixed price NYMEX-based swaps for 2014 and a combination of NYMEX and LLS-based swaps and collars for 2015.
Full details of our hedging positions are shown on the updated investor presentation that was posted to our website this morning.
On the expense side our lease operating cost improved from the prior quarter and excluding the Delhi remediation expense recognized during Q4 our overall lease operating expense per BOE decreased by about 2% sequentially to $25.68 per BOE in Q1.
On an absolute dollar basis our LOE was down slightly due to a decrease in work-over costs partly offset by higher power costs due in part to higher natural gas prices.
Q1 LOE per BOE came in essentially where we guided to on last quarter's conference call.
For the full year 2014 we continue to expect overall LOE per BOE to be in the mid-20s range excluding any potential additional Delhi-related remediation expense or insurance reimbursements.
We do not have any incremental charge for Delhi Field remediation costs this quarter.
And although our remediation efforts are complete it is possible we could still have some incremental costs for unknown items.
Also note that the operating cost of our Riley Ridge gas processing plant was primarily recorded in the marketing and plant operating expense line of our income statement and we expect that expense line to remain relatively consistent going forward.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $44 million in Q1 up from about $34 million in the fourth quarter and about $2 million higher than the year ago period.
As mentioned on last quarter's call we typically see an increase in G&amp;A expense in Q1 primarily due to taxes and other employee costs associated with divesting long-term incentives and bonus payouts in the first quarter.
For the first quarter $7.5 million of G&amp;A was stock-based compensation.
For the remainder of 2014 we expect G&amp;A expense to run in the upper $30 million to mid-$40 million range each quarter with approximately $7 million to $10 million of this amount being stock-based compensation.
Our depletion depreciation and amortization rate decreased somewhat to about $21.30 per BOE in the first quarter from just under $22 per BOE in the fourth quarter.
This decrease was due primarily to higher production and decreases in CO2 property and other fixed asset depreciation.
Also we did not have any significant proved reserves changes in the first quarter.
Looking at 2014.
We expect our DD&amp;A rate to average between $21 and $22 per BOE most likely increasing each quarter throughout the year.
Our effective income tax rate for Q1 was slightly below our estimated statutory rate of 38% and about 13% of our taxes were reported as current this quarter.
And that's less than the 20% to 30% in our current taxes that we guided to previously.
That decrease was primarily due to the benefit that we derived from the expensing or refinancing our sub-debt here in the second quarter.
For the rest of 2014 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 37% and 38% with current taxes representing between 15% and 20% of total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Total debt at March 31 was approximately $3.5 billion which was up about $250 million from December 31.
We had $600 million drawn on our $1.6 billion bank credit facility at March 31 up from $340 million at the end of Q4.
The increase on borrowings in the quarter was largely related to our share repurchases and the remainder was to fund additional working capital needs that we had in the first quarter.
Just a few weeks ago we refinanced our roughly $1 billion of 8 1/4% senior subordinated notes with $1.25 billion or 5.5% senior subordinated notes.
It costs us roughly $100 million to cover the early redemption of the notes and the remaining excess funds went to reduce our bank debt.
Phil mentioned the savings that this provides us but it also better aligns our capital structure with our $2.85 billion of senior sub-notes now at a weighted average interest rate of about 5.25% and our first significant maturity not until 2021.
Based on our current assumptions for cash flows and capital expenditures for 2014 and the dividend payments we anticipate ending the year with bank debt of between $400 million and $500 million excluding the impact of any remaining incremental share repurchases in 2014.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest is $49 million in Q1 an increase from $40 million in Q4.
That increase is almost entirely due to a $9 million reduction in capitalized interest but a small portion due to the increase in borrowings under our credit facility.
The decrease in capitalized interest was primarily the result of placing Riley Ridge into service near the end of Q4.
And going forward we expect our capitalized interest to range between $5 million and $7 million per quarter with that amount being at the lower end earlier in the year and increasing slightly as we go throughout the year.
Our capitalization metrics remain solid.
Our debt-to-capital was up slightly this quarter to 41% primarily due to the impact of the share repurchases.
And our debt to trailing month EBITDA was right around 2.5x and probably around 2.3x if you exclude the Delhi incident.
Our 2014 capital budget remains at $1 billion plus an estimated $125 million for other items including capitalized acquisition exploration and development costs capitalized interest and pre-production EOR startup costs.
We actively purchased our common stock as Phil mentioned during the first quarter repurchasing about $200 million.
With these purchases we have now spent about $940 million since October 2011 when we started the program and we have about $220 million remaining authorized under this program.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig for an operational review.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Total company production for the quarter was slightly below 74 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our tertiary operations performed in line with our estimates in the first quarter while production averaging just below 40 000 barrels per day.
Our tertiary oil production increased on a sequential quarterly basis as continued growth at Hastings Heidelberg Oyster Bayou and Tinsley Field in the Gulf Coast region and Bell Creek Field and the Rocky Mountain region combined with relatively flat production at a mature tertiary properties in Delhi.
At Hastings Field sequential production increased by about 350 barrels per day as the newest patterns of the flood responded well to CO2 injections.
We expect to see continued growth at this field throughout the remainder of 2014 as additional patterns continue to respond to CO2 injection.
Oyster Bayou continues to show steady growth increasing by about 190 000 barrels per day sequentially in the first quarter.
We are currently developing the A-2 Zone and optimizing the existing A-1 Zone in Oyster Bayou.
As a result we expect additional production growth in the second half of 2014.
Heidelberg Field's tertiary production increased about 120 barrels per day from Q4 levels.
We expect continued production of growth at Heidelberg for the remainder of 2014 as the Christmas zone in West Heidelberg and the Utah Zone in East Heidelberg respond to CO2 injection.
At Tinsley Field sequential production increased by 620 barrels per day primarily due to increased CO2 injection rates.
For mature area tertiary properties production declined by 2.4% sequentially which was about in line with our expected decline of approximately 10% per year.
We have various capital projects underway in several of our mature properties that we anticipate will reduce this decline rate even further.
Moving now to Rocky Mountain region.
Bell Creek's tertiary production increased during the first quarter as they still -- is responding well to the increase in CO2 injections since the completion of the Greencore Pipeline interconnect in late January.
Bell Creek's net tertiary production recently exceeded 900 barrels per day and we expect this yield to be a key driver of our anticipated 2014 tertiary production growth.
Our drilling program at Hartzog Draw continues.
We have 3 wells producing having just finished completing the third well.
Overall results are in line with our plan.
Production from our non-tertiary assets increased to just under 34 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the first quarter from just under 33 000 in the fourth quarter.
That's primarily due to production increases at Conroe Field in Texas and Cedar Creek Anticline Hartzog Draw and Riley Ridge and the Rockies.
Production at Conroe Field has increased by over 450 barrels of oil equivalent per day on a sequential quarter basis.
This is a result of successful recompletion and improved run times at the third-party gas plants which processes the fields methane and NGLs.
Our Cedar Creek Anticline production was just above 19 000 barrels of oil per day in the first quarter and that's compared to about 18 600 in the fourth quarter of last year as we experienced less downtime implemented efforts to improve water handling and completed several new wells.
Our team continues to look for opportunities to enhance production on our non-tertiary assets in advance of the planned CO2 floods.
Natural gas production from our Riley Ridge natural gas processing facility which we placed in service in late December 2013 averaged approximately 1.6 million net cubic feet per day during the first quarter.
We are still in the startup phase of this first-of-its-kind plant and thus far Riley Ridge's run time has been lower than expected.
Our team is working to improve both planned uptime and inlet volumes feeding the plant.
Also note that Riley Ridge was shut in starting late last month due to an outage at Williams gas plant in Opal Wyoming.
We are just now starting our Riley Ridge plant back up and expect to start selling gas later this week.
While still too early to predict the lower Riley Ridge natural gas production and Williams related downtime could negatively impact our annual corporate non-tertiary production estimates.
Although because it is natural gas this likely would not have a significant impact on our cash flow.
So overall looking at our company-wide production we continue to expect both tertiary and total production to be in the lower half of the estimated production ranges we provided back in November.
Let's move now to lease operating expenses.
Our lease operating expense per barrel of equivalent production decreased by 2% from the fourth quarter level when excluding Delhi remediation expenses.
Operating costs for our tertiary properties averaged $27.21 per barrel in the first quarter and that's a decrease of over $1.50 per barrel from the prior quarter level when we exclude Delhi remediation expenses.
The sequential decrease in quarterly LOE per BOE primarily reflects increased production and the reduction in well work-over activity in both of our operating regions partially offset by higher power cost.
While down sequentially our work-over expenses did remain elevated in the first quarter due to a continued emphasis on well integrity and performance work and a relatively high number of well repairs.
We expect some of these work to be non-recurring and anticipate our overall 2014 per BOE operating cost to be in the mid-20s.
As Phil mentioned we do have various initiatives underway across the company to reduce both our operating cost and the cost of our capital projects.
We expect these initiatives to mitigate the escalation in our operating and capital cost that we have experienced over the past 2 years.
Let me give you some color at some of these initiatives.
We have a team looking at different designs of our future CO2 facilities to reduce the cost to build and install them.
This includes moving to modular construction and standardizing our facility design.
We're spending more time evaluating multiple scenarios to find the optimum development plan before we commence construction.
We're placing more emphasis on improving the run times of our compression through improved maintenance and reliability.
We're also focused on optimizing our large electricity usage.
We employ the use of root cause failure analysis to understand each equipment or well failure and why it occurs so that we can fix the root cause which should prevent this failure from being repeated.
Our objective overall is to continue Denbury's tradition of moving quickly while also challenging ourselves to optimize each component of our business and look for new ideas.
Let's move now to our CO2 supply and transportation operations which in general are performing well and fulfilling our growing demand.
In the Gulf Coast region we produced slightly under 970 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from Jackson Dome during the quarter.
In the Rocky Mountain region we received roughly 90 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from our combined sources at LaBarge and Lost Cabin for our EOR operations.
We purchased an average of approximately 60 million cubic feet per day of CO2 that was captured from industrial sources in the Gulf Coast region for use in our operators fields during the quarter.
Our man-made CO2 supply is expected to get a boost from Mississippi power plant if complete.
And our combination of natural and man-made CO2 sources gives us the ability to manage our CO2 supply to help ensure our plants receive the needed supply.
And with that I'll turn the call back to Jack.
Okay.
Thank you Craig.
Stacy that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just curious it sounded good about Delhi as far as no more cost there.
Could you just talk about what you're seeing as far as the response now you've gotten back to flooding the field and what do you see going forward there? This is Craig.
The production continues in line with our expectations.
The areas that we're flooding continue to respond nicely.
The area that we're isolating where we had last year the isolation is effective.
And in fact we're putting in some commercial pumps to enhance the production the kind of primary -- secondary production out of that.
That's going to be basically a waterflood and it's not going to be a CO2 flood.
But we're on track relative to what expect.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at Riley Ridge obviously the Williams thing is just kind of starting the plant back up.
Obviously it's just been a little bit of just slow going as you kind of learn that.
Does that do anything as far as what the plans are going forward and obviously turning it into what it's ultimately going to be as far as the CO2 plant? Is that still going to be -- that time line still stay pretty stable it's just the for lack of a better word getting the bugs out of it in the near term as we'd look to do that in the future? Yes.
It does.
This is Bill.
It doesn't affect long-term glance at all.
I mean it affects the potential -- our production numbers.
But as Craig mentioned on a cash flow basis it's actually kind of a low-margin property.
Of course that -- again it's not the primary purpose of it long term.
The purpose is to produce CO2 and we really won't start capturing the CO2 until we get the pipeline there so that's late this decade.
And we'll go to the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Had a couple of quick ones for you.
First on the CapEx side.
You're running a little below kind of your guidance for the year.
Can you talk to kind of the cadence of spending throughout the rest of the year? I think we're pretty close to being on track.
I mean we still expect to spend $1 billion.
And I think it came in at what 20% 21%.
So no change.
It should be pretty consistent throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the repurchases front.
Phil I believe you said you stopped repurchases in February.
I just wonder if you could confirm that and kind of what you'd be looking for in the marketplace? I know shares have had a bit of a bump here.
Is there a specific price or how do you think about that with the remaining authorization that you have? We have some specific prices in our mind but I can't tell you.
So the prices has firmed up a little bit and we've been hanging in the 16s 17s.
And so yes we have purchased at least nothing material since the last conference call.
But we still have $220 million authorized and so ready to spend on kind of the factors we said.
It is subjective and depends on the stock price the oil price how we fund it and so forth.
So we're happy that our stock has firmed up a little bit and expect that to continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Quickly on the dividend.
How can you kind of give -- what are the odds maybe if oil continues to strengthen that you may accelerate the dividend bump to that $0.50 to $0.60 range? Can you put a percent chance on that? Do you need to see $110-plus oil for that to happen this year or are you pretty set in making that a 2015 item? I think that dividend for 2015 is pretty certain.
Actually in our budget we used an assumed price of $90.
So we don't need $110 oil to achieve that $0.50.
If oil was $110 potentially we can do a little better than that.
But no we are fine where our prices are today we should be able to hit that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the odds of maybe hitting that level later this year is that something that's on the table? Well it probably -- potentially I guess it could be a consideration and would depend on prices.
It's both the oil prices and differentials.
If you noticed Mark said that our differentials probably have deteriorated just a little bit from Q1.
So that also has a pretty big impact on our net realized price.
So we're continuing to monitor it.
I wouldn't necessarily want you to assume any change in '14.
But '15 we're pretty confident that we can get to the higher number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just had one last one.
Craig had briefly mentioned some of the drilling at Hartzog Draw.
I was wondering if you can confirm you mentioned there were wells produced in line with expectations.
Are those the horizontal Sussex wells that you've been drilling? And if that's not can you give an update on that program? You're correct.
This is the horizontal Sussex program.
It is performing in line with expectations.
We just finished our third well there.
On balance that program is looking like what we hope it would.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you refresh my memory on what that -- the activity levels you're planning this year? We want to keep one well -- one rig drilling throughout the year.
So we've drilled on our fourth well.
We'll probably drill another several wells out [ph].
So another 7 or 8 wells.
And we'll go to Robert Bellinski with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that you could give some thoughts on CO2 costs versus price realizations over the next couple of quarters.
CO2 costs is linked to WTI and much of your production is linked to LLS which is looking like it might come under further pressure as those crude stocks rise in the Gulf Coast.
So can you talk a little bit more in detail about what steps you can take or maybe you are taking to not get pinched on CO2 if the LLS differential continues lower? Well a large portion of our CO2 cost is directly tied to the price we received at field.
So that'll take care of itself.
Some of the other ones are tied to a little bit different pricing.
So I don't think -- I think it'll pretty much balance itself out so we're not too concerned about that at this time.
And we'll go to Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see if you guys could comment on the differential guidance for the year.
I think you highlighted Mark how you may be a little bit below WTI $3 to $4.
Do you anticipate that continuing for the balance of the year or is that more of a Q2 event? Well right now Q2.
I mean I do think we're seeing a general softening I mean although differentials can change at any time and we've seen that historically here.
So at this point I would say I would expect it to stay a little bit softer than maybe what we are anticipating.
But I don't know if I expect it to stay exactly where it is or as rough as it is but I think it's just -- it'll continue to change with the flow of crude and into the various locations.
And that's what we've seen.
So our best estimate now is just kind of what we see for Q2 and then maybe getting a little bit better throughout the year.
But it's just tough to say at this point.
Research Division</strong> Shifting gears back to Hartzog Draw.
Do you have any other potential zones that you see could be perspective horizontal I know EOG [ph] and Anadarko were highlighting Rockies a little bit today in their calls.
We're looking at all the horizons we've got at Hartzog.
We're not ready to talk about any additional upside let's just leave -- you can look at the whole column there.
We're happy with the primary development we got sharing right now and we'll be looking for more.
Research Division</strong> Phil just one question maybe on the longer-term hedging strategy as you're shifting towards the dividend higher dividend levels.
Could you talk about that? Any changes to your hedging strategy? Well no.
We haven't -- we have pretty well hedged out through the third quarter of '15.
We haven't put anything in place for the fourth quarter or 2016 thus far.
And it's really just because of the curve is so steeply backward dated.
We went to largely all swaps in '14 and 2015 we have a combination of swaps and collars.
And I think that's probably the approach we'll take going forward maybe a combination of both.
We are trying to get a little more certainty in our cash flow since we're paying dividends.
But we also like to have little bit of optionality with the collars.
And obviously we can absorb a little bit of downside of course and you get a little bit of the upside.
So we've been watching late '15 and '16 but we have not pulled the trigger yet.
It seems to gradually get better if we just wait a little longer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question I know there's a been little bit of a delay at the Mississippi -- for one of the Mississippi power plants which is going to provide some man-made CO2 for you.
Can you update on that? And does that have any impact in terms of your expected volumes going forward? And your knock-out [ph] effect there? We have the expectation that's entirely based on those conversations our planning and assumptions haven't changed.
We still anticipate we'll get CO2 from them in the fourth quarter.
It could be -- I mean there's a chance it could be delayed there's a chance it could be sporadic.
If that happens we have the option of accelerating our drilling program to get the needed CO2 supply.
So we continue to talk with them regularly.
And if those plans change we've got a provision to get the supply we need.
So bottom line is we're covered on our CO2 supply needs for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just to clarify so if there was a quarter or 2 delay in that project you wouldn't anticipate any impact as you could add some incremental volumes from Jackson Dome.
Is that -- am I understanding that correctly? We would likely to drill an additional well at Jackson Dome.
And that's the $15 million of CapEx to do that.
So that probably would be our response to a material delay in that being a few quarters delay from Mississippi time.
We'll go to Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I hopped on late so my apologies if you touched on this already.
I had looked at the gas production for the quarter.
And I had thought it might be a little higher sequentially because of Riley Ridge coming on.
Can you just give me a sense of what the increase was and whether the ramp-up was going on through the quarter and are we going to see higher volumes later in the year? Specifically to Riley Ridge.
We have had lower run times at Riley Ridge than we had planned on.
And frankly we also had a lower inlet feed volume than we anticipated.
We know the issues that are and it's just kind of started issues associated with the first-of-its-kind plant.
So a little more detail we've got the scale instituting that we've got to get out with some sulfur depositing in the tubing.
So we'll address that we're addressing that.
And there are some deep bottlenecking to other plant facilities.
And so that's what's causing the lower production volumes of natural gas in the first quarter.
We're working through those issues.
So we do anticipate that our natural gas line will increase as the year progresses.
So just working through those issues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that basically within what you have budgeted for the project or is there going to be any bit of an uptick there for some of this activity? At the moment we don't anticipate there's any significant additional spending to address the issues I've mentioned.
We're basically talking to the whole tubing works [ph] as we build out scale and possibly an additional tanker vessel.
And some relatively modest response needed to address these issues.
I would kind of characterize them as not that unexpected and just sorting out a new plan.
Research Division</strong> Fine.
And just one other housekeeping thing.
The stock compensation number for the quarter was a little lower than I expected.
Was it any different from the expectations you guys talked about on the fourth quarter call? No.
I don't think so.
We just typically have a lot of impacts running through in the first quarter payroll taxes and such as not just executive but the whole company's long-term incentives and such.
And so as that rolls through that has to drive up our first quarter numbers.
But I don't think there's anything unusual about other compensation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Actually the number was somewhat lower than I expected.
But this was -- I might have just been off in my estimate then.
Okay.
Great.
I think that's all...
[indiscernible] guided to basically low-40 up -- mid-$40 million range is kind of where we're targeting there.
We'll go to Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I missed this because I jumped on late.
But are you still targeting downtime this summer at Riley Ridge? It's still on our plan.
We are kind of looking at can we move that turnaround.
It will be determined at some point this year and we're just trying to figure out that schedule as we learn more about how the plant is operating.
Bottom line is our current plant is still is for one month turnaround.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my follow-up.
Phil given that you're now a growth and income company focused on dividends dividends growth does that dampen your interest in the near term to consider bolt-on acquisitions that you've historically looked at whereby you can increase your inventory of fields to eventually flood? Not at all.
One we still need additional inventory long term although we are pretty well set for the next several years with projects we have in place.
So we don't feel like there's a lot of pressure to buy something but would love to add to the inventory.
That just extends the growth curve out several more years.
Secondly it depends on what you buy.
I mean most things would also probably be accretive to cash flow in the short term.
We do look for projects that have upside.
We're not really into just buying PDP because we just can't make much money buying PDP.
But the current production actually does help the short-term metrics.
So we'd love to do some acquisitions.
And we've looked at some this year we just haven't been successful or pulled the trigger.
Research Division</strong> When you mentioned you looked at some this year is it still that the sellers are reluctant to part with their assets at a reasonable price? Well we haven't found the ones we really really want.
And so we -- the ones we've looked at probably have been -- we've been kind of lukewarm about it.
And we're just [indiscernible].
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Bruce Brown with Brown Capital Management.
On the Delhi Field when do you expect the reversionary interest to take effect? We stated that we expect it to go in effect later this year.
I think we had targeted late third quarter early fourth quarter was our best estimate for now.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no questions in queue.
Mr.
Collins I'll turn it back to you for closing comments.
Okay.
Before we end the call today let me just quickly cover a few housekeeping items.
We will be holding our Annual Meeting on Tuesday May 20 Marriott at Legacy Town Center here at Plano.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the meeting and we encourage you to vote on the items in this year's proxies.
On the conference front several members of our management team will be participating in investor conferences over the next 2 months.
As always you can check the Investor Relations section of our website with details on each presentation including the webcast and slides.
Lastly we plan to report our second quarter 2014 results on Wednesday August 6 and hold our conference call at that day our usual time of 10:00 a.m.
Central.
Thanks again for joining us and I hope you all have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Second Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Okay.
Thank you Roxanne.
And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
Presenting from Denbury on today's call will be: Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which are available to you on our website at denbury.com.
Also during the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosure on these measures are provided in today's news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil Rykhoek.
Thank you Jack.
As we've discussed over the last several quarters we've been highly focused on increasing shareholder value through a combination of growing production reducing costs and generating sustainable long-term dividend growth.
So I'd like to start by kind of summarizing our progress on those objectives.
Our total production was up 2% organically on a sequential quarter basis gains in both tertiary and non-tertiary production.
Tertiary reached a new high of just below 41 000 barrels a day in this quarter on the continued response to the expansion of our Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain EOR floods.
Non-tertiary production increased primarily as a result of higher production from properties in the Rocky Mountain region as a result of recently completed wells and field optimization projects.
However even though production grew sequentially we are now estimating our total annual production will average slightly below the low end of our previously disclosed guidance range of 76 500 BOEs per day.
The largest driver of this change is lower-than-estimated natural gas sales from our Riley Ridge gas processing facility due to unplanned well downtime.
Craig will cover this and other drivers of our production outlook for the second half of 2014 in his section.
Despite production trending slightly lower than desired our cash management is doing well as evidenced by $62 million of excess cash generated year-to-date over and above capital expenditures and dividends.
And we may generate additional excess cash in the second half of the year depending primarily on capital expenditures and oil prices.
Our excess cash flow has been boosted by internal cost reduction efforts with operating cost continuing to decline on a sequential quarter basis continuing a downward trend from late last year.
In addition based on year-to-date capital expenditures and reductions in our capital costs spending on our planned 2014 projects may come in below $1.1 billion allowing us to accelerate future capital projects into 2014.
Although we still have ways to go we're encouraged by the efforts and accomplishments we have seen thus far and feel confident that we can continue to find efficiencies and additional reductions in our cost structure.
We will continue to allocate our capital on a way that we believe creates the most value for our shareholders.
On the hedging front we've used the strength in oil futures price over the last few months to extend our hedge positions at attractive levels into the first quarter of 2016.
By securing future oil prices at rates higher than those utilized in our internal long-term budget we have improved the estimated range of future cash flow from operations that will allow us to sustainably grow our dividend over the long term.
On dividends we announced our third quarter quarterly cash dividend last week.
Thus far we've been paying them an annualized rate of $0.25 per share.
But based on current outlook we still plan to grow our dividends at an annualized rate of $0.50 to $0.60 per share in 2015.
On the share buyback front we didn't make any repurchases last quarter.
And so we still have approximately $220 million authorized under that program.
While much was accomplished in the quarter there's still much to be done to meet our long-term growth and income plans.
We have a great team in place that looks forward to the challenge of unlocking the value that we see in our asset base.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Mark and Craig to give you more details on the quarter.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
My comments will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release primarily focused on the sequential change from the first quarter.
I'll also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you in updating your financial models to reflect the current outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Our non-GAAP adjusted net income for the second quarter was $93 million up $4 million from the first quarter primarily driven by lower operating expenses and higher production volumes.
Our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $314 million for the second quarter 9% higher on a sequential quarter basis for the same reason as above and as well as lower current taxes.
Although our realized oil price increased over $2 per barrel from Q1 settlements related to our fixed price swaps on roughly 80% of our oil production offset most of that increase.
And the deterioration of our differentials from Q1 resulted in our net realized oil price including hedge settlements being down about $1.15 per barrel from the first quarter.
Our NYMEX differential weakened as expected from nearly $1 per barrel below NYMEX in Q1 to slightly over $3 per barrel below NYMEX during the second quarter.
Our oil differentials declined across the board and our Gulf Coast tertiary production which primarily receives LLS pricing averaged $1.15 per barrel above NYMEX down approximately $2.50 per barrel from Q1.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential declined by $1.60 per barrel selling at just over $10 per barrel below NYMEX this quarter.
Thus far in Q3 our LLS and Rockies differentials have deteriorated somewhat relative to Q2 levels.
And therefore we are currently expecting that our differentials will average $3 to $5 per barrel below NYMEX in the third quarter.
Moving on to our hedging activity.
Our oil hedges for the remainder of 2014 are all fixed price NYMEX-based swaps at a weighted average price of roughly $92.50.
We recently extended our hedge positions into fourth quarter of 2015 and first quarter of 2016 utilizing a combination of both NYMEX and LLS fixed price-enhanced swaps in 3-way collars.
Beginning with the first quarter of 2016 the average volume weighted for price for our combined LLS and NYMEX hedges exceeds our long-term oil price assumptions using our long-term model.
We currently estimate that every $5 per barrel increase in our net realized oil price results in an additional $100 million of cash flow.
Full details of our hedging positions are shown on our updated investor presentation that was posted to our website this morning.
On the expense side our lease operating costs improved from the first quarter of 2014 with LOE per BOE decreasing by about 7% to just under 25 -- or $24 per BOE in Q2 which is slightly better than we had guided to.
On an absolute dollar basis our LOE was down 4% due to a decrease in workover costs partly offset by higher utility and CO2 costs.
For the remainder of 2014 we continue to expect the overall LOE per BOE to be in the mid-20s range excluding any potential additional Delhi-related remediation expenses or insurance reimbursements.
Third quarter LOE per BOE maybe slightly higher than Q2 due to workover costs related our Riley Ridge well which Craig will discuss in further detail.
Although we have not reported any incremental charges for Delhi Field remediation expenses this year and our surface remediation efforts there are complete there are assertions of additional third-party claims that we are unable to regionally estimate at this time.
And as a result it is possible that we could report additional costs in future periods.
However we remain in discussions with our insurance carriers and continue to believe that 1/3 to 2/3 of our $114 million expense thus far and any potential additional cost should be covered by insurance.
On to G&amp;A expense.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $39 million in Q2 in line with our expectations and down from $44 million in the first quarter.
For the second quarter $8 million of our G&amp;A was stock-based compensation.
For the remainder of 2014 we expect G&amp;A expense to be in the upper $30 million to mid-$40 million range each quarter with approximately $7 million to $10 million of this amount being stock-based compensation.
Our depletion depreciation and amortization rate increased $0.35 per BOE from the first quarter to slightly above $21.50 per BOE in the second quarter primarily due to higher production without any significant reserve additions.
For the remainder of 2014 we continue to expect our DD&amp;A rate to remain between $21 and $22 per BOE.
Our effective income tax rate for Q2 was slightly below our estimated statutory rate of 38%.
And we recorded a current tax benefit this quarter primarily due to the cost associated with our recent sub debt refinancing.
For 2014 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 37% and 38% with current taxes representing between 10% and 15% of total taxes which is down from our previous estimate of between 15% and 20% due to the tax benefits derived from our recent debt refinancing.
Moving onto our capital structure.
Total debt at June 30 was approximately $3.6 billion which was up about $90 million from March 31 with the increase primarily driven by the early redemption premiums associated with our debt refinancing.
We had $445 million drawn on our $1.6 billion credit facility at June 30 down from $600 million at the end of Q1.
In conjunction with refinancing of our 8 1/4% notes and the issuance of the 5 1/2% notes we took the opportunity to turn out some of our bank debt.
Based on our current assumptions for 2014 cash flows capital expenditures and dividends we anticipate ending the year with bank debt between $400 million to $500 million excluding the impact of any remaining incremental share repurchases in 2014.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was $47 million in Q2 down roughly $2 million from Q1 due to the reduction in interest expense from the Q2 reduction and refinancing of our 8 1/4% notes with 5 1/2% notes.
The refinancing reduced cash interest on our principal amount of the 8 1/4% notes by over $27 million per year.
However factoring in the incremental subordinated debt we issued and the higher interest rate on the subordinated debt versus bank debt our net annual cash interest savings are estimated at about $17 million.
If you combine this with the refinancing of the sub debt we did last year we estimate that we will save approximately $60 million in cash interest on the face amount of the notes refinanced.
But this amount is offset somewhat by the higher amount of sub debt outstanding as we termed out some of our bank debt with these transactions.
Capitalized interest was relatively unchanged from Q1 to Q2 and in line with our expectations.
We expect capitalized interest to range between $5 million and $7 million for the third and fourth quarters of this year.
Our capitalization metrics increased slightly as our debt-to-capital ratio was approximately 42% at the end of the quarter up primarily due to the approximately $115 million of incremental cost that we rolled into the 5 1/2% notes that we issued in April.
And our debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA was about 2.6x.
Our 2014 capital budget is estimated at $1 billion plus an estimated $100 million for other items including capitalized internal acquisition exploration and development costs capitalized interest and preproduction EOR start-up costs.
And this is down approximately $25 million from our previously disclosed amount due to lower estimated capitalized interest and preproduction EOR start-up costs.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig for an operational review.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Total company production for the quarter was slightly above 75 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our tertiary oil production averaged just below 41 000 barrels per day.
Our tertiary oil production increased on a sequential quarter basis.
Growth continued at Hastings Heidelberg Oyster Bayou Tinsley and Bell Creek Fields.
We did have slightly declining production at our mature tertiary properties in Delhi Field.
At Hastings sequential production increased by about 150 barrels per day which is slightly lower than expected due to weather-related power failure at our processing facility in the quarter.
We do expect to see continued growth at these fields throughout the remainder of 2014 as the developed patterns continue to respond to CO2 injection.
Also we have 2 new infill wells that will come online in the third quarter.
Part of this year's capital work program at Hastings included the development and initiation of CO2 injection into 2 new fault blocks which we refer to as Fault Blocks D and C.
CO2 injection into these new fault blocks has been delayed several months to allow time to complete plugging and abandonment work.
The P&amp;As took more time than anticipated and we are just about to finish them.
This few months' delay of starting CO2 injection will result in production from these new fault blocks occurring in early 2015 rather than in the fourth quarter of this year.
Oyster Bayou continued to show solid reservoir response increasing by more than 350 barrels per day sequentially in the second quarter.
This increase is due to the reservoir continuing to respond to CO2 injection combined with optimization work that was done.
We are currently developing Oyster Bayou's A-2 Zone and expect it to start contributing to production during the third quarter.
As a result we expect additional production growth in the second half of 2014.
Moving on to Heidelberg.
Heidelberg Field's tertiary production increased about 280 barrels per day from the first quarter.
We expect continued production growth at Heidelberg for the remainder of 2014 as the Christmas zone in West Heidelberg responds to CO2 injections and a new Tuscaloosa zone unit in East Heidelberg comes to production.
Additionally in the fourth quarter East Heidelberg's production from the Utah zone is expected to grow as it responds to CO2 injection.
At Tinsley production grew modestly due to favorable response from the patterns we've added there.
This field is now officially fully developed and therefore production has likely peaked at that field.
For our mature area tertiary properties production declined by 1.8% sequentially.
That's less than the 2.4% decline from the fourth quarter of '13 to the first quarter of '14.
We have implemented various capital projects in several of our more mature properties.
And that's resulting in slightly lower decline rates.
We continue to pursue opportunities to mitigate this decline further.
Let's move now to the Rocky Mountain region.
Bell Creek's tertiary production increased over 500 barrels per day during the second quarter as the field continued to respond well to CO2 injections despite fluctuations in CO2 delivery volumes from Lost Cabin.
Bell Creek's tertiary production recently has exceeded 1 500 barrels per day and we continue to expect this field to be an important key driver of our anticipated 2014 tertiary production growth.
Bell Creek's production growth while good may be somewhat lower than we anticipated in the next few months.
We are currently injecting less CO2 than forecast due to compressor downtime at Lost Cabin.
We have had failure of several compressor pistons and we're working with a compressor manufacturer to resolve the root issue.
We anticipate having the compressors back operating later this week.
The reduced CO2 injection associated with the downtime may slightly dampen the rate of production growth in the next few months.
Production from our non-tertiary assets increased nearly 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the second quarter from just under 34 000 in the first quarter primarily due to production increases at Thompson Field in Texas and Hartzog Draw and Cedar Creek Anticline Fields in the Rockies.
Production at Thompson Field increased by 260 barrels of oil equivalent per day on a sequential quarter basis.
That's a result of equipment upgrades completed in Q1 which improved operational run times and helped stabilize gas lift and compression in the fields.
We've recently drilled 4 infill wells and plan 2 more.
Production at Hartzog Draw increased nearly 250 barrels of oil equivalent per day on sequential quarter basis primarily as a result of new wells that were put on production.
So far this year we have drilled 6 wells at Hartzog Draw.
We completed 5 of them and have 1 more to go.
On average the horizontal wells we've been drilling at Hartzog have attained our predrill estimates.
However there has been more variability in the result than we expected.
So consistent with our strategy to maximize shareholder value we have elected to take a pause in our Hartzog drilling program to determine why the results have been mixed.
This will enable us to improve future drilling and value creation performance.
Accordingly we are moving a rig from Hartzog Draw to drill horizontal wells at Cedar Creek Anticline.
This one has a small impact on our combined production from these 2 fields since the Hartzog wells typically have higher initial production than the CCA wells.
Our Cedar Creek Anticline production increased nearly 150 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the second quarter from slightly above 19 000 barrels in Q1 as we experienced less downtime and we completed additional wells and field optimization projects.
We do expect CCA's production to be down a little in Q3 and that's due to some unexpected downtime we have experienced there thus far in the quarter.
The most significant of that is related to the failure and required replacement of a large electrical panel which has impacted the water injection of the Cedar Hills South waterflood.
This repair work was completed earlier this week and water injection is now ramping back up.
Moving to Riley Ridge.
Natural gas production from our Riley Ridge natural gas processing facility averaged approximately 2.2 million cubic feet per day during the second quarter and that's a 34% increase from Q1.
Riley Ridge's Q2 production was lower than anticipated due to downtimes in late April and early May resulting from an outage at Williams gas plant in Opal Wyoming.
Most recently we experienced reduced production at Riley Ridge due to lower production volumes from the 2 wells that were raw gas to the separation plant.
While performing a workover on one of those wells the coil tubing units failed resulting in an unplanned downtime and expense.
This work added to non-tertiary operating costs in Q2 and will add additional cost in Q3 -- through Q3.
We're optimistic these operations have been successful and that Riley Ridge production will ramp up later this quarter and in the fourth quarter.
The timing of the plant turnaround is also moved out to late Q4 or early 2015 due to equipment availability.
This turnaround is expected to enhance and sustain throughput capacity of the plant.
We continue to come up the learning curve on how best to produce and process this unique world-class reservoir at Riley Ridge.
The lower Riley Ridge natural gas production has negatively impacted our annual corporate non-tertiary production estimates by approximately 1 200 BOEs per day which drove us slightly below the low end of our estimated production range.
However because it is natural gas with relatively high operating costs this has not had a significant impact on our estimated operating cash flows.
The real significance of Riley Ridge is a few years out when it will supply CO2 to our growing EOR developments in the Rockies.
Overall looking at our company-wide production we now expect total production to average slightly below the low end of our estimated production range of 76 500 BOEs per day we provided back in November.
With that let's move on to lease operating expenses.
We are starting to see positive results from our initiative to focus on cost and value creation.
Our lease operating expense per barrel of equivalent production decreased nearly $2 in Q2 from Q1.
Operating cost on our tertiary properties averaged $26.57 per barrel in the second quarter and that's a decrease of over $0.60 per barrel from the first quarter level.
The sequential decrease in quarterly LOE per BOE primarily reflects increased production and a reduction in well workover activity in both our operating regions partially offset by higher CO2 and power costs.
Total workover cost during the second quarter returned to levels in line with or better than historical levels.
And this is in part due to focusing on solving the root cause of our well problems.
We anticipate our overall 2014 per BOE operating cost to remain in the mid-20s.
Let's turn to our capital program.
Halfway through the year we spent about 45% of our capital budget.
We are beginning to see positive results from our organization's focus on cost savings and value creation.
And that's started to show up in our capital spending.
We have seen some reductions in our drilling cost and some facilities-related cost reductions as well.
Most importantly cost savings discussions are increasingly becoming part of the everyday culture.
Accordingly our 2014 total combined capital program is expected to come in under the $1.1 billion budget.
We are evaluating options to accelerate some future capital projects into 2014 to potentially utilize this available capital.
Let's move now to our CO2 supply and transportation operations which in general are performing well and fulfilling our growing demand.
In the Gulf Coast region we produced slightly under 800 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from Jackson Dome during the quarter.
We were able to reduce our usage of CO2 in the Gulf Coast by over 100 million cubic feet per day compared to Q1 and this reduction is intentional.
As part of our cost savings and value creation emphasis our teams look for ways to optimize CO2 utilization.
We need CO2 injection targeting areas of the reservoirs with the largest amount of oil demanding to be recovered.
The teams found intervals taking CO2 that had little oil left in them.
As a result the [indiscernible] has already swept intervals which reduced our CO2 usage without materially impacting oil production.
Increasing CO2 efficiency is significant and it should lower future capital costs associated with developing our CO2 production capacity.
In the Rocky Mountain region we received roughly 60 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from our combined sources at LaBarge and Lost Cabin.
We purchased an average of approximately 70 million cubic feet per day of CO2 that was captured from industrial sources in the Gulf Coast region for use in our operated fields in the region during the second quarter.
Our man-made CO2 supply is expected to get a boost when Mississippi Power Plant is complete in the next 12 months.
There is a possibility we will receive some CO2 sooner than 12 months out as Mississippi Power Plant starts to ramp up production.
Our combination of natural and man-made CO2 sources gives us the ability to manage our CO2 supply to help ensure our floods receive the necessary supply.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Jack.
Okay.
Thank you Craig.
Roxanne that concludes management's prepared remarks.
Can you please open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Curious the CapEx thing sounds really interesting as far as being able to see some lower costs.
I just wanted to maybe get color on the fact.
Are you seeing just lower cost overall? And so your ability to either see a lower CapEx budget this year or possibly bring in some more work is that just simply seeing lower cost on a per unit basis? Or however you want to characterize it versus necessarily pushing things out? Because in the past we've had that discussion.
But it looks like now it's just actually cost savings.
The cost savings we're seeing are currently in some of our drilling.
We're seeing reduced cost in the drilling of our Hartzog Drill Draw wells and our CCA wells.
We're also seeing a reduction in some cost of our facilities.
A big driver of that is usually twofold one is looking for better ways to do it.
Also we are pressing our suppliers for improved cost and leveraging our scale as well as our standardized approach.
We are looking for -- and so that is creating some space and some room that we are looking to bring some 2015 programs into '14 to utilize some of that freed-up money.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then just obviously you're already kind of generating at least a little bit of cash flow on top of the dividend and obviously operations.
What's the thought with -- assuming that hopefully that can continue if oil prices stay up here is that just going kind of towards the debt as Mark talked about it a little bit where the debt would be at the end of the year? Or is there anything else that you'd look at specifically to use that in the coming quarters before we get into '15? Yes.
Of course that's always the swing because that's kind of the plug number with bank debt there.
So currently -- well as Craig said is we've kind of hesitated to say we're lowering our budget per se.
But it does look like we're coming in less than what we thought.
We may try to accelerate some projects.
If we do that then actually in the second half we'll probably spend our cash flow.
But if there is a swing we'll likely use it for debt.
Of course we always do have the stock repurchase program still there and the option to move capital around a little bit.
And our next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig a little bit into the guidance.
So before today you guys had been guiding to the low end of the range which is that 76 500 BOE per day.
And that was driven by getting a little later start as I remember on the CO2 flood at Bell Creek and then also because of Riley Ridge.
Now you're going to go below that number.
Are you talking about going below that number by the 1 200 BOE per day that Craig outlined and as far as the impact from Riley Ridge? Well that is the single biggest contributor.
And obviously if you take 1 200 off the midpoint of our original range you're below the 76 500.
So that's the single biggest one.
And then the second one you appropriately identified.
Bell Creek as we mentioned earlier in the year has always been running a little bit behind due to the delay in getting the interconnect done on the [indiscernible] pipeline.
It's grown nicely in the second quarter but we do see just a little concern what could happen in the third quarter with this -- the issues that were on the compressors.
I would probably say Bell Creek is likely to be at least a few hundred maybe several hundred barrels a day below the original forecast.
So long story short we're probably going to be more than 200 below the low end of the range probably several hundred at best.
But there is still some variability there.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then following up from Craig's prepared remarks could you expound a little bit upon what you don't like that you're seeing at Hartzog Draw and why you're reallocating that rig away from there? Yes.
So at Hartzog we've drilled 6 wells we've completed 5.
Of those 5 1 is above expectations 2 are basically at expectations and 2 below expectations.
The one above expectations is way above it was over 1 000 barrels a day IP.
The worst one was almost completely watered out so tremendous variability.
So why? Well we have an idea as to what's causing the low performers.
In fact specifically we think it's a high permeability streak that's connected to the nearby waterflood and is flooding out the zone.
We've got some ideas how we can isolate that.
And so we're taking a pause to figure out how we eliminate or reduced exposure to the downside and frankly how we get some access to the upside.
We want to understand better where that 1 000 barrel a day -- what drove that 1 000 barrel a day well.
So we think we've got a chance to do better than our average.
And so we're taking a pause to pursue that.
We've got some work planned actually in a couple of weeks on the well that was 100% water.
We think we can isolate the interval that's watered out and we think that well will respond nicely.
So we're just doing a bit of evaluations.
We think we can improve the overall portfolio at Hartzog.
And so that's the reason for the pause.
The nice part is that we had a place to go send that rig.
We're doing really well at CCA.
It's not a far jaunt to take that rig over to CCA for a bit and draw some nice wells there while we're doing some diagnostics at Hartzog.
We fully intend to go back to Hartzog with an optimized plan.
Research Division</strong> And then Phil one last one for me.
As you peer out into 2015 how do you see non-tertiary oil production trending next year? Well I hesitate to get into 2015 too much because as you know we give guidance in our Analyst Meeting this fall or November.
But in general we're struggling to keep non-tertiary from declining and so it probably will.
I mean I hesitate to give a number yet but we do have some positives at Hartzog and the drilling CCA has helped.
But on general mostly it feels it's going to decline.
And our next question comes from the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Some of my questions have been asked already.
But I was hoping to drill down a little bit on I guess in prepared comments we heard this a couple of times evaluating options to accelerate future capital projects into '14.
Is that just -- is that sort of just a wish list of to-do projects that you have planned for '15 that you're going to accelerate? Or what kind of color can you provide on what we might expect from that? Well we're developing that list now it's a variety of options.
Things like maybe drilling an additional well or 2 at Thompson some additional infill at Hastings possibly accelerating some work in our mature fields also could ramp up some a bit of work at CCA.
We may also be able to do some work on optimizing some of our other floods.
It sets a light variety but it's that type of looking at our existing programs and just moving some '15 plans into '14.
Maybe on a scaler we're -- this is probably talking $25 million to $50 million.
That's about the scale of what we're talking about if that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay that is helpful.
And then lastly you gave some comments on Delhi.
But should we assume a kind of a steady decline from that field going forward? I mean how much is just the field having peaked versus the new approach of not being able to maybe flood it optimally like you would've otherwise? Well we don't expect Delhi to change too much in the third quarter.
It did slip just a little bit but it's kind of been kind of flat really for the last 6 months.
We don't expect that to change.
Do keep in mind there is a payout coming.
And we think that's going to occur probably early fourth quarter or -- and so that's going to be the biggest change.
So you'll see a drop and then post-payout I think going in 2015 we actually would expect it to grow a little bit.
But you're going to see -- keep in mind there's a dip coming in the fourth quarter.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question is from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Phil just looking -- or Craig looking at the guidance for the second half of the year I mean how do you see the actual oil production trending? I know you did about 71 000 barrels in 2Q.
Should we expect maybe a 2 000 barrel quarter-over-quarter increase in oil production growth for the second half? You may have that in the fourth quarter.
I think third quarter is likely to be pretty low growth.
We know some of the issues that Craig went through already.
So we expect fourth quarter to grow.
Third probably is going to be very modest growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just lastly for me what parameters are you looking for in order to resume the share repurchases? I mean where does that rank -- share repurchase program rank in your priority now when you consider maybe drilling acceleration et cetera? Well that's always a tough question to answer.
I mean this all depends on share price oil price leverage and options I guess.
So we just continue to evaluate it on a regular basis both with management and with the board.
So it really depends on the relationship of those items.
We are -- at this point we probably would be borrowing the money to do it other than the free cash we generated in the first part of the year which as you can debate we perhaps went for the earlier share repurchases as a part of it.
So we are conscious of our leverage and so we do definitely take that into consideration.
And our last question comes from the line of Natasha [indiscernible] with Tuohy Brothers Investments.
The first question is can you provide any more color on your evolving cost reduction strategies particularly in modular facility design and electricity consumption? We continue to pursue all avenues of cost reduction.
That's really across every spectrum of our business from our capital -- design of our capital facilities how we drill our wells to lease operating expense.
Yes.
On the facilities you asked I mean we actually -- that's probably I don't know 75% 80% down the road.
You'll see some of that at Webster.
It will be a distributed facility rather than a central facility.
So you'll see some of the first benefits of it at Webster.
Of course that really is mainly a 2015 expense as far as out-of-pocket spending but that's ongoing.
We're continuing to tweak that.
But I think you'll see the first benefits of that next year.
Great.
And then you discussed a little bit about Bell Creek production.
Has any additional production been shut in to help increase the field pressure there? No field pressure is good there.
We're above miscibility pressure there or it would maintain that so no.
And at this time there are no other questions in queue.
Okay.
Roxanne before we end the call let me cover a few housekeeping items.
On the conference front several members of our management team will be participating in investor conferences over the next few months.
Also for your calendars we plan to hold our annual Analyst Day here in Plano on Monday November 17.
Please check the Investor Relations section of our website for details on these presentations including the webcast and the slides.
Lastly you should also mark your calendar for our third quarter 2014 results which we plan to report on Wednesday November 5.
We will hold our conference call that day at our usual time of 10:00 a.m.
Central.
Thank you all again for joining us today and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 12:30 p.m.
today running through September 6 2014 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback service at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 292663.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Jack Collins Denbury's Executive Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Zack and good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining on today's call.
Presenting today from Denbury will be Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Craig McPherson our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin the call let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss on today's call.
And you can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which are available to you on our website denbury.com.
Also during the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosure on these measures are provided in today's news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Thank you Jack.
Let me begin by talking just briefly about the current macro-environment.
As everyone knows that oil prices dropped considerably over the last couple of months.
And WTI future prices are now below $80 both short and long term.
Of course finally the equity evaluations of oil companies have dropped significantly including ours.
I wish I knew what the oil prices will be going forward but to be candid I do not.
There are some that suggest prices could drop more and others presume prices have hit the bottom.
In any case though let me highlight why I think Denbury is well situated to weather this price dip.
Denbury's assets and strategy put it in a uniquely positive situation under these circumstances.
As we have historically stated we believe we could cut spending by almost 50% and hold production roughly flat.
In other words we can reduce our capital development program significantly without shrinking the company.
Some think that once you start an EOR flood you can stop or slow down development that simply isn't true.
As we can adjust the development pace to almost any rate.
We don't have any lease expiration issues like most of our peers our assets will not go away if development is slowed and really the only negative impact is the decrease in the present value of the cash flow streams.
In addition to the advantages inherent in the assets we've been hedging a portion of our forecasted production 12 to 24 months into the future fairly consistently for the last several years.
As such we have about 75% of our current oil production hedged through the third quarter of 2015 with the -- a bit less hedge from the fourth quarter of '15 through the first half of the '16.
About half of the 2015 hedges are swaps with prices in the low $90s and the balance collars with a floor price of around $80.
Lastly our capital structure is such that most of our debt is termed out with attractive interest rates lowering the risk that lower oil prices could impact the liquidity we currently have under our bank line.
In summary we feel that we feel very good about our ability to withstand lower oil price and believe we're in a better position to do so within much of the industry.
Nonetheless we are reviewing our 2015 spending plans in light of the current environment.
The current oil price is about $12 to $13 a barrel below our stated 2015 budget price of $90.
So that decrease does obviously have an impact on our projected available cash.
As you know we attempt to fund our capital spending and dividends with cash flow from operations.
So we are currently evaluating options for 2015 in light of the anticipated reduced revenue due to commodity prices.
With our Analyst Day just a couple of weeks away we won't be addressing our 2015 plans on today's call but suffice it to say we are acutely aware of the current environment and are evaluating our options.
We look forward to providing you a comprehensive overview of our operations and 2015 estimates in our Analyst Day presentation in about 10 days.
As you know we've worked hard to reduce our cost in 2014 and that program is continuing.
I'm pleased we have generated about $90 million of free cash thus far this year over and above free cash defined as cash flow from operations over and above capital expenditures and dividends.
And at least part of that free cash is due to our emphasis on cost control.
As we announced during the last earnings call we were running below budget on our capital spending but noted we may rearrange some of our capital budget programs to end the year closer to $1.1 billion budget.
We anticipate we may spend at a somewhat faster pace in the fourth quarter than what we did in the first 3 but we still expect to end the year a bit below budget with regard to capital spending.
Therefore even with the lower oil prices we should end the year with excess free cash flow.
If you analyze our LOE cost per barrel they are down about 20% since the fourth quarter of 2013.
And that's $22.86 per barrel this quarter versus $28.67 in Q4 of 2013.
Unfortunately if you dig a little deeper it's not quite as good as that initially looks.
If you adjust for the non-recurring items related to the Delhi incident both including the insurance received and the incremental charges and adjust for incremental work-over cost at Riley Ridge.
The net decrease per barrel is reduced [Audio Gap] interestingly enough though this year why our EOR is running a little bit behind primarily due to delays in CO2 injection in Bell Creek discussed earlier this year.
The bigger issues have been with conditional production from the aforementioned items.
These shortfalls are not acceptable and we are working to address them.
So with that introduction let's Mark and Craig give you more details.
Mark? Thanks Phil.
My comments will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release and primarily focusing on the sequential changes from the second quarter.
I will also provide some forward-looking statements guidance to help you in updating your financial models to reflect the current outlook for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our non-GAAP adjusted net income for the third quarter was $91 million or $0.26 per diluted share that was down $2 million from the second quarter due primarily to lower realized commodity prices and production offset by lower costs.
Our GAAP net income was significantly higher than this due mostly to a gain of $277 million on fair value adjustments related to our hedge positions and a $10 million gain related to the net impact of Delhi insurance recoveries offset by incremental costs.
Turning to cash flow our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $316 million for Q3 up $2 million from the second quarter.
Lower prices on production decreased our cash inflows by roughly $10 million this quarter however we saw roughly the same increase from our Delhi insurance recovery net of incremental costs and also received an approximately $8 million benefit from severance tax exemption at Hastings Field.
Other changes in cost and current taxes net down the remaining difference.
Our realized oil prices this quarter excluding hedges decreased a little over $5 per barrel from Q2 to $94.78 per barrel as oil prices trended down during the quarter.
Including hedges our net realized oil price was down only $1.40 per barrel from Q2.
Our NYMEX differential improved $0.50 from Q2 to approximately $2.50 per barrel below NYMEX during Q3.
Oil differentials for our Gulf Coast tertiary properties which primarily receive LLS pricing averaged $2.37 per barrel above NYMEX up approximately $1.20 per barrel from Q2.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential declined by approximately $1.40 per barrel selling at just under $11.70 per barrel below NYMEX this quarter.
We currently expect our overall differential to average between $2 and $4 per barrel below NYMEX prices in the fourth quarter.
Moving to our hedging positions.
Our oil hedges for the fourth quarter of 2014 are all fixed price NYMEX-based swaps with the weighted average settlement price of roughly $92.50.
These hedges covered approximately 80% of anticipated oil production in Q4.
During the third quarter we added to our 2015 and 2016 hedge positions adding a combination of both NYMEX and LLS fixed price enhanced swaps and 3-way collars.
For 2015 we have roughly 75% of our oil volume -- oil volumes hedged based on current production levels with an average downside price of approximately $87 per barrel based on our combined WTI and LLS hedges.
Full details of our hedging positions are shown in the investor presentation that is available on our website.
On the expense side LOE per BOE was in line with our previous guidance and we estimate LOE per BOE will remain in the mid-20s in Q4.
Craig will discuss more about LOE in detail in his comments.
On a positive note during the quarter we received an enhanced oil recovery project tax exemption for our Hastings Fields which resulted in approximately $8 million cumulative reduction in severance taxes during Q3 and will result in lower severance tax payments at that field in the future.
This reduction is reflected in our taxes other than income line item in our financial statements.
We have also filed for a tax exemption for Oyster Bayou field and are waiting notice of this exemption to be granted.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $40 million in Q3 in line with our expectations and about in line with the second quarter level.
For the third quarter $8 million of net G&amp;A was related to stock-based compensation.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect G&amp;A expense to remain around the current level with approximately $7 million to $10 million of that amount being stock-based compensation.
Our effective income tax rate for Q3 was slightly above our estimated statutory rate of 38%.
For 2014 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 38% and 39% with current taxes representing less than 5% of total taxes.
Moving to our capital structure.
Total debt at September 30 was approximately $3.6 billion which was down about $40 million from June 30.
We had $410 million drawn on our bank credit facility at September 30 down $35 million from Q2.
Our bank credit facility is set at $1.6 billion leaving us significant liquidity.
Based on our current assumptions for cash flows and capital expenditures for 2014 and our level of dividend payments we anticipate ending the year with debt bank of between $400 million and $500 million excluding any impact from remaining incremental share repurchases and depending on our level of ultimate capital expenditures.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was $45 million in Q3 down roughly $2 million from Q2 due to lower cash interest expense as a result of lower interest rates and debt outstanding.
Capitalized interest was around $6 million for Q3 relatively unchanged from Q2 and in line with our expectations.
We expect capitalized interest to range between $5 million and $6 million for the fourth quarter of 2014.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig for his comments.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Total company production for the quarter was slightly below 74 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our tertiary oil production averaged just above 41 600 barrels per day up 2% sequentially driven by continued growth of Hastings Heidelberg Oyster Bayou and Bell Creek fields.
At Hastings sequential production increased by about 160 barrels per day as new infill wells came online during the third quarter.
Part of this year's capital work program at Hastings included the development and initiation of CO2 injection into 2 new fault blocks which we refer to us Fault Blocks B and C.
CO2 injection into these new fault blocks was delayed several months to allow time to complete plugging and abandonment work.
The P&amp;As took more time than initially anticipated but were successfully completed in August.
We are modifying our Hastings flood design to what we refer to as a series approach instead of injecting into multiple stack stands all at once we're going to focus on flooding the B and C fault blocks one sand package at a time similar to the successful approach at Oyster Bayou.
We believe this is the more optimal approach.
We are converting several wells now and we expect a production response from this new fault block in the first quarter of 2015.
Moving to Oyster Bayou.
Oyster Bayou continues to show solid reservoir response increasing by 190 barrels per day sequentially in the third quarter.
This increase is due to the reservoir continuing to respond to CO2 injection and initial production response from the A-2 Zone which occurred in the third quarter.
We are continuing development of Oyster Bayou's A-2 Zone and expect to see additional production growth in the fourth quarter.
At Heidelberg our tertiary production increased about 110 barrels per day from Q2 levels.
We did have are turnaround during the quarter to install a new compressor which impacted the quarter's production by approximately 200 barrels per day.
We expect continued production growth at Heidelberg for the remainder of 2014 as the new Tuscaloosa zone unit comes on production and CO2 injection is increased in the Utah and Christmas zones all in East Heidelberg.
At Tinsley production declined modestly and included a turnaround to install a new compressor.
This field's production is within its estimated peak range.
Two additional dedicated injection wells were recently completed.
We do plan on completing Phase 8 field development at Tinsley during the fourth quarter and expect to see a response in the first half of 2015 which will help mitigate the field's decline.
For our mature area tertiary properties production increased nearly 90 barrels per day which was the first sequential quarter increase for these properties since the fourth quarter of 2012.
We have implemented various capital projects in several of our mature properties which help mitigate their production declines.
Let's now move to the Rocky Mountain region.
Bell Creek's tertiary production increased over 550 barrels per day during the third quarter as this field continued to respond well to CO2 injections.
This is despite fluctuations in CO2 delivery volumes from Lost Cabin and we expect continued growth at Bell Creek in the fourth quarter.
Production from our non-tertiary assets decreased 2 240 barrel of oil equivalent per day during the third quarter from just under 34 500 in the second quarter.
This is primarily due to production decreases at Cedar Creek Anticline and Riley Ridge and the Rockies and at Conroe Field and the Gulf Coast region.
Production at Conroe Field decreased by approximately 920 barrels of oil equivalent per day on a sequential quarter basis primarily as a result of downtime of the third-party natural gas processing plant during most of the quarter.
The processing plant returned to service and production resumed late in the third quarter.
Our Cedar Creek Anticline production decreased over 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the third quarter from slightly above 19 000 barrels a day in the second quarter as we experienced unexpected downtime earlier in the quarter related to this failure and replacement of a large electrical panel which impacted the water injection of the Cedar Hills South water flood.
Water injection was off-line 8 weeks and resumed in August.
Production is now climbing back up and is estimated to return to pre-failure levels by early 2015.
Moving to Riley Ridge.
Natural gas production from our Riley Ridge natural gas processing facility was negligible during the third quarter.
Our wells are currently shut in due to the tendency for the tubing to plug with sulfur.
This is due to among other things a flaw in the initial design installation of the wells and surface equipment which have become -- has become more evident as we produce the wells.
Our technical teams have been looking at multiple options to permanently solve this.
We have looked at the solutions used by the offset operator as well as other operators which produced high hydrogen sulfide concentrations.
We are developing a comprehensive plan to permanently address these well and facility issues in order to ensure sustained throughput from the plant in the future.
Based on our current plan we do not expect natural gas or helium production for the field to resume until late in 2015.
Longer term Riley Ridge represents the anchor source of CO2 for the Rockies the near term has minimal cash flow impact.
Summing up our company-wide production outlook we anticipate modest sequential growth in the fourth quarter of 2014 and thus for our full year 2014 daily production average to be approximately in line with our year-to-date average daily production rate.
Let's move now to lease operating expenses.
After excluding the net impact of Delhi field remediation costs and insurance reimbursements LOE was relatively flat from Q2 on an absolute dollar basis as an approximate $4 million in incremental costs associated with Riley Ridge well workovers was largely offset by lower CO2 costs due to lower utilization and lower oil prices.
On a per BOE basis LOE increased modestly to just over $24 per BOE primarily due to the sequential 2% decline in total production.
It's worth highlighting that our adjusted tertiary LOE per BOE declined 6% on a sequential basis due to a combination of higher production and lower power and CO2 costs and it was also down on a year-over-year basis for the first time since the first quarter of 2013.
For Delhi field the $24 million net insurance reimbursement we received was partially offset by an additional $14 million of expenses we recorded during the quarter for third-party property and commercial claims resulting in a $10 million credit to LOE during the third quarter.
Also at Delhi based on preliminary estimates it would appear that we have achieved payout as of the end of October.
Under the terms of our purchase agreement with our the joint venture partner reversion is scheduled to occur the first day of the month following payout.
There continue to be several matters under dispute at Delhi that are being addressed in a lawsuit between us and our joint venture partner.
Turning to a capital program we have spent 69% of our capital budget through the first 9 months of 2014.
We continue to expect our 2014 total combined capital program to come in under the $1.1 billion budget.
Let's move now to our CO2 supply and transportation operations which continue to fulfill our field needs.
In the Gulf Coast region we produced slightly under 770 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from Jackson Dome during the quarter.
In the Rocky Mountain region we received about 50 million cubic feet per day of CO2 from our combined sources at LaBarge and Lost Cabin purchased an addition -- an average of approximately 70 million cubic feet per day of CO2 that was captured from industrial sources in the Gulf Coast region for use in our operator fields in the regions during the third quarter.
Our man-made supply is expected to get a boost from the gasification and carbon capture systems at Mississippi Power's Kemper County power plant are started up in the next 12 to 18 months.
Our combination of natural and man-made CO2 sources gives us the ability to manage our CO2 supply which helps ensure our floods receive the necessary supply.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Jack.
Okay.
Actually we heard from several of you that we lost audio for a brief period of time at the end of Phil's comment so Phil's just going to repeat.
Before we open up for Q&amp;A Phil is going to repeat the last part of this prepared remarks.
So you've heard the details -- so this is kind of going back to 40 000 foot and giving the overview we're told we lost communication after I was talking about capital and I was just starting to talk about LOE.
So if I could go through those again then you'll have it.
So I was starting to talk about LOE and said if you analyzed LOE cost per barrel they are down about 20% since the fourth quarter of 2013.
The $22.86 per barrel this quarter they were $28.67 per barrel in Q4 of '13.
Unfortunately if we dig a little deeper we didn't save quite that much.
If you adjust for the non-recurring items related to the Delhi incident which includes both insurance receipts and incremental charges and if you adjust for the incremental work-over costs at Riley Ridge this net decrease per barrel is reduced to about 12% which is still a very positive trend and confirmation that the cost control efforts are paying dividends.
I am disappointed in the overall 2014 production numbers much of that slippage as you've heard the detail can be attributed to continued issues at Riley Ridge that really have minimally impact on cash flow and lower conventional production at CCA in Conroe.
One was related to the unexpected failure of an electrical panel the other resulted to downtime of a third-party processing plant.
As you've heard Craig has covered that in a bit more detail.
While those items explain much of the shortfall we really need to improve on our ability to hit our production targets.
I've often said EOR is extremely difficult to forecast and that is true as we've found it much harder to predict the precise timing of our production response to CO2 much harder than we had with other conventional in-shell production historically.
Interestingly though this year while our EOR is running a little bit behind primarily due to the delays in CO2 injection at Bell Creek discussed earlier this year the bigger issues have been with conventional production from the aforementioned items.
These production shortfalls are not acceptable and we are working diligently to address them.
So with that replay I will now turn it back to Jack.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Zack you can now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Mr.
David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just curious Craig maybe this one is for you.
The mature property on the tertiary side you saw that -- that sequential increase of 90 barrels a day you said that there are several projects going on there.
I guess how long you I guess see or forecast based on your current project work sort of the flattish mature property profile? And what exactly are you doing at the field level to stimulate that? Well specifically we've got some capital programs released for better costs for a variety of fields.
We're just finishing up the development in optimizing -- it's fleshing out some phases in our mature properties the CO2 patterns as well as optimizing those patterns.
So we spent capital this year on a variety of fields to pursue that.
I don't think we are projecting that the mature properties are going to be flat.
That capital investment does a nice job of mitigating the decline but it's not going to completely offset the decline in the long term.
Yes we've usually -- if you kind of look at history we've usually said they've started dropping 10 or maybe a little bit over 10% per year.
I think we indicated that we anticipated this year will be a little less than that.
And so it's great to see that it's flat or up slightly quarter-over-quarter.
But we don't really think we can maintain that long term but we do expect it to decline.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Phil you went into detail about the lifting cost trajectory and kind of how some of the message was bittersweet there with some frustrations earlier in the year on workovers but in terms of the actual CO2 expenses could you quantify have there been any efficiency gains from the amount of CO2 being used at the field level on sort of a year-over-year basis? Yes.
We -- In fact I guess we didn't talk about that quite as much today but we have definitely lowered our usage of CO2.
So it's a combination -- the CO2 costs were down for a combination of reasons: one is oil price which of course affects the cost particularly on the anthropogenic CO2 on Lost Cabin makes a big difference.
And -- but we've also lowered the usage of CO2 pretty dramatically.
I don't know if you want to comment on that anymore Craig? Oh yes.
We talked about it at the last quarter call -- last quarter we took our CO2 injections down over 100 million a day which was a nice percentage.
This quarter they're down a little bit more.
We -- just as we look at the optimization of CO2 in our fields we will continue to do that.
And so I don't know we'll see how dramatic were the changes we've seen in the initial kind of work we've done.
I don't know if we're going to take another 100 million out but I think see improvements in our utilization.
That's just a constant component as we look at how to best manage the reservoirs and optimize their performance.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I can just get one quick one in here.
Just -- I think you had said that in the press release you had added hedged volumes since the last quarter I think Mark you -- I just wanted to confirm that you guys are about 75% hedged today for '15 on oil volumes.
Yes.
On average I think we're 58 000 barrels a day for our first 3 quarters and around 38 or so -- so average of 53 000 barrels a day roughly in 2015 combination not quite 50-50 but of swaps and three-ways.
I think I mentioned that average kind of downside price if you net all those together was -- I think just under $87 per barrel for 2015.
And do recognize that that includes LLS in which we generally set those at least $3 per barrel higher when we look at -- doing our contracts.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I believe that the original plan that you had laid out at your last Analyst Day was based on sort of an $85 realized price right? For 2015 it was set at $90.
And after that dropped to $85.
And next we'll go to the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Craig can we get a little more detail on the 4Q production outlook.
Specifically how much of the non-tertiary production is expected to be back online in the quarter on a daily basis? Of the non-product -- the non-tertiary production we had a difficulty in the third quarter should be back up.
So it is back up.
Conroe specifically -- the third-party gas plant that was down is back up so that production has been restored.
At Cedar Creek Anticline just to give you a little more color there our production is recovering.
As I mentioned in my comments we don't expect it to fully recover until the first quarter of '15.
Just to give you kind of a sense of scale there we were down for 8 weeks with a very large water injection facility.
That facility puts 33 000 barrels of water in the ground.
And so we didn't put 33 000 barrels of water underground for 8 weeks.
That's accumulative of 1.5 million barrels of water.
We basically got to put that amount back in the reservoir to get production back up.
And so we're making a good headway.
We're seeing the production start to grow in CCA.
But as I mentioned that -- and we're confident we'll get back to where it was but that will probably be in the early part of next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so in that case you're looking for a couple of percentage growth quarter-over-quarter from the tertiary projects.
Our primary growth is going to be in tertiary.
As I mentioned Oyster Bayou is growing and we expect that to continue to grow.
Heidelberg we expect some growth there.
Bell Creek we should have some growth there as that continues to respond nicely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Moving on to the cost side.
Roughly what -- how much of the say I guess it's around $25 $27 of operating costs per barrel for the tertiary projects.
For every say $10 decrease in oil price how much of that move down in general the CO2 costs power and fuel et cetera? We're all looking at each other scared to answer that one.
We'll talk about that more at the Analyst Meeting if that's okay.
It's a good question but the contracts are all different.
And so I don't know if we've ever played with sensitivities.
There are certain ones that have -- that aren't linear.
And so they're are not -- they don't move in a linear fashion and they're more like a hockey stick.
So you saw a little bit of that benefit actually this quarter which is why it's down a bit.
But that doesn't necessarily continue going forward.
So that's a good question.
We'll try to address that at the Analyst Meeting.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly from me how are you looking at the share repurchases now? I know you average in repurchases around the $15 range.
And the stock was below that I imagine for a decent amount of the third quarter.
You still have about $220 million in the -- outstanding available in the program.
How are you looking at it at this point? Well it's probably a replay of prior answers.
We look at the where it's trading versus NAV and of course NAV is dramatically impacted by oil prices.
And so we consider those items and then we consider how we're going to fund it.
So the reason we or at least part of the reason anyway is we've pulled back some is we want to be conscious of our debt levels.
Particularly in a declining price environment but it's something we continually watch.
And it is a bit subjective that we do have as you appropriately mention a little bit over $200 million left on the authorization but we've been a little cautious perhaps because of our debt levels and the balance sheet and not knowing for sure where oil prices are going.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just curious you kind of mentioned it but just trying to maybe quantify a bit but obviously Riley Ridge coming down.
It just looked like the oil production looks pretty decent from a growth perspective quarter-over-quarter sequentially.
The gas obviously was where the big delta.
Was that all pretty much Riley Ridge? Or is there anything else that was included in that? Production at -- the Riley Ridge was down obviously.
But also the CCA was down significantly and that -- Conroe due to gas...
Research Division</strong> And those are pretty -- I mean I guess I was just more surprised it was such a drop in the gas versus the oil actually hanging in there so to speak? No.
I think Craig hit them.
We're looking here it's a cheat sheet.
If we get something else we'll add it.
But I think those are the high points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-up on Richard's question.
I mean are you all able to save much of -- have you looked at anything on the share repurchase side since the quarter closed? I think the stock actually was above $15 pretty much until the end of the quarter.
And since then obviously with what's going on it's kind of come down is that commentary still relevant for the last 30 45 days? No we have not -- I guess we can say that because it becomes public.
We haven't purchased anything since the quarter closed.
Next we'll go to the line of Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Phil I just wanted to perhaps get your broader thoughts I mean obviously Denbury has shifted to more of a growth and income kind of strategy.
We've had an unexpected down turn in commodity prices.
So I just wanted to get your views on what do you prioritize? Is it growth or income in a lower oil price environment? Well that's a million dollar question.
I think keeping -- part of the priority I think keeping dividends maintaining current dividends is probably one of the highest priorities.
You can debate the rate of growth for the dividends perhaps in a declining price environment.
And so the next would probably be capital expenditures which of course affects production growth.
So we don't want to shrink dividends ever if possible.
The rate of growth could be flexible depending on the macro environment.
Research Division</strong> And just -- because I do believe just thinking back to history that you reiterated kind of your tacit views on the '15 dividend in your Q2 release but there was no specific commentary on that here.
Does that suggest that you're still thinking about '15 in terms of the dividend? Yes we just didn't want to get into anything related to 2015 when we're only 10 days away from an Analyst Meeting which we'll include all that the anticipated 2015 dividend and 2015 capital expenditures and production et cetera.
So we were just trying to stay away from it being so close to our Analyst Meeting.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's fair enough.
And just my second question obviously there's been a little bit of a timing delta on Riley Ridge.
I did dial in a little bit late for the call but I just wanted to see is in terms of the cash flow impact of the timing delay what is does that do to your cash flows in terms of Riley Ridge if you assume gas prices in the low 4s? Does that have a material impact at all? No.
No.
It's very immaterial.
I mean it's a -- the primary purpose of Riley Ridge of course is to ultimately produce the CO2 for us and we -- at this point we still need to have additional separation facilities.
To separate it we need to have a pipeline there before we can use it.
So it is a low-margin process excluding the usage of CO2.
And so the impact on cash flow -- I don't have a precise number but it's negligible it's immaterial.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe if I could just add one more.
It's just in the broader thoughts on flexibility on the CapEx side how much flexibility -- you're spending about $1.1 billion this year.
As you think about the next couple of years how much flexibility -- do you have to downshift that a little bit while still maintaining call it low to mid-single-digit kind of oil growth.
Well we made that comment early on.
See that's what happens when you're late? And so you missed all the good part.
But we didn't quite cover -- exactly as you said what we did say is we've -- is kind of reiterate what we've said often which is if we could cut capital expenditures by roughly half and keep production relatively flat.
So obviously something in between gives you perhaps some growth.
But that's kind of the only place we've gone we haven't tried to address something in between flat and the current estimates.
And our next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Yes Phil with the lower oil price environment are you noticing any changes out on the field as far as service costs supply et cetera that could help you on your costs for 2015? This is Craig.
Not yet.
We've not.
And so our assumptions for 2015 are basically we're not going to see a big increase we haven't seen those yet but the market is changing.
We'll see.
Research Division</strong> Now are you fairly well locked in for '15 at this point? Or do you have exposure to lower cost? We don't have many commitments for '15.
First of all we are such a different business.
We don't have bunch of rigs and rig commitments frac commitments and all that sort of stuff.
We do have some items we order that have long lead times.
Some of our equipment particularly compressors I think are still pretty long lead time.
So we may have a few of those ordered but that's relatively minor in the overall scheme of things.
And they're equipment that we would use anyway somewhere someplace.
So I don't think there's a lot of risk in there.
So prices -- we're kind of in a different part of the industry but if we have some savings I don't think we have anything locked in that's appreciable.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up and this is harder one to ask because you -- we'll have the Analyst Day shortly and get the '15 guidance at that point.
So I'm not asking for 2016 guidance but when you think about dividend policy and setting a dividend do you want to set it to essentially match the cash flow for that year? And where I'm going to this is if in 20 -- let's say the forward curve is indicating lower prices say in 2016 you wouldn't want to set the dividend at a level that you have to reduce it the next year so does that enter into your thought process? Or is it more like we just want the dividend to essentially match the cash flow equals CapEx plus dividends.
And so it will move around up and down as per how that cash flow moves up and down over time? We probably do the former part.
We'd look forward and look at something that we believe we can sustain and take that into account when we're setting a -- the current year dividend.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Mccampbell with SW Securities.
When I compared the presentation for today with last year's investor presentation the proved and potential remaining in the Delhi field has gone up markedly.
Can you explain why that is? And -- I didn't catch when you said the reversionary was met was it the beginning of October or the end of October? When was that? What we said was based on our preliminary numbers we -- looks like payout we have achieved payout at the end of October.
Yes.
And with regard to your question about the Delhi potential I guess I'm not quite following you there.
Could you...
I don't know that we've covered anything on that today.
No.
On the presentation that I'm looking at on your website it shows Delhi improved remaining is 29 million barrels equivalent and the potential is 11 million and that's compared to 25 million and 8 million from last year's investor presentation.
I think that's just minor tweaks and we constantly update that based on how the floods going and so forth.
But that's not -- one that's not a very big change.
And anyway we really haven't addressed any of that really since I guess yearend when we did the reserves.
And there are no further questions in queue at this time.
Now we'd like to turn the conference back over to your host Mr.
Jack Collins.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks Zack.
And thank you again everyone for joining us on today's call.
Before we end the call let me cover a few housekeeping items.
First as a reminder as we've mentioned a few times on today's call we'll be hosting our annual Analyst Day on Tuesday November 18 here in Plano.
Management's presentation at that Analyst Day which will include operating and financial guidance for 2015 is scheduled to be begin at 8:00 a.m.
Central.
So we hope you all can join us for that.
There will be a live audio webcast of the presentation available on our website.
Also slides for that presentation and the news release that summarizes the key themes of it will be published to our website the evening of Monday November 17.
Phil and Craig will be giving a recap of that presentation in New York on Wednesday November 19.
Please contact myself or anyone in our Investor Relations group if you'd like to attend either event.
Also management will be presenting at various conferences in the fourth quarter of this year.
A full schedule of those presentations and webcasts will be accessible in the Investor Relations section of our website.
And lastly please note for your calendars that we plan to report our fourth quarter of 2014 results on Thursday February 19 2015 and hold our conference call that day at our usual time of 10:00 am Central.
Thanks again for joining us and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12:30 today through December 5 2014.
Thanks.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 292681.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T's Executive TeleConference service.
You may disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the fourth quarter 2014 earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder the conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Manager of Investor Relations Mr.
Ross Campbell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lori and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me on the call from Denbury are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Brad Kerr our Senior Vice President Development Technical and Innovation.
Before we begin let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which are posted on our website at denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosures on these measures are provided on today's news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Thank you Ross.
As everyone knows the precipitous drop in oil price obviously has impacted us as well as the entire industry.
Fortunately we made quick early adjustments to reduce our spending and we still currently believe we can fund our projected 2015 capital program and current dividends with the projected cash flow and actually may even generate a little bit of free cash for the year.
Further we reaffirm that we expect the midpoint of our production range to be roughly flat with 2014 production.
We're using the slowdown to our advantage and we started a process a few months ago to do a complete review of our field and operations with a goal to complete the initial review by mid-year basically looking for ways to become more efficient and ways to reduce costs.
We call these teams the innovation and improvement teams and I'm pleased to report the process is going very well.
Many potentially rewarding ideas have been presented.
We're starting to scrub those prioritize them and work toward implementation.
We're not quite ready to share the specifics with the public but we will share more about this -- but we believe this process will make us a stronger company.
Brad will share more about this in a little bit.
In addition all of our employees are looking for ways to reduce cost and increase efficiencies in everything we do.
And I expect to see additional improvements as we go forward.
We are seeing continuing improvement in cost as one example evidenced by our fourth consecutive quarterly drop in LOE if you exclude the unusual items relating to Delhi and Riley Ridge.
Fourth quarter operating cost averaged $22.64 per barrel that's 14% lower than the fourth quarter of 2013.
As I mentioned we expect to fund our capital program and dividends this year with cash flow from operations.
And in 2014 we generated approximately $107 million of excess free cash flow that's defined as cash flow less capital expenditures and dividends.
That demonstrates our disciplined approach to balancing our cash flow and is a result of our ongoing cost saving measures as both capital and LOE came in under budget for the year.
As Mark will share in more detail our balance sheet is in good shape.
We have the right mix and type of debt in our capital structure and we're confident we can weather this storm.
During 2014 we completed a refinancing of our sub debt and amended our bank credit agreement both of which gave us maturities that are several years away.
We locked in attractive interest rates and we reduced our out-of-pocket interest costs.
In addition we have extensive hedges in 2015 which will provide us significant incremental cash flow.
In addition to our capital structures and hedges we do get a direct benefit on our out cost as the cost of CO2 correlates with the price of oil and we have seen that begin to come down.
We are also quite flexible on what we spend and how fast we develop an EOR flood.
Some people think that once you start an EOR flood you can't stop or slow down development.
And that really isn't true as we can adjust the development pace to almost any rate which gives us significant flexibility during a period of low prices.
We don't have any lease expiration issues like most of our peers so our assets will not go away if development has slowed.
By reducing our capital development program and focusing on ways to drive margin expansion we should come out of this difficult time stronger and more prepared to deliver in 2016 and beyond.
So with that introduction let's look a little bit at operations in a little detail on the fourth quarter.
Total company production for the quarter was slightly above our guided range of 74 000 barrels a day.
Our tertiary production averaged just under 41 900 up just slightly sequentially and even after absorbing the lower production related to the reversionary interest at Delhi.
The strong growth areas during the quarter were Heidelberg Oyster Bayou and Tinsley.
At Hastings sequential production decreased slightly by 100 barrels a day as we slowed the development down slightly in the new Fault Blocks B and C in order to convert them to a series flood and complete plugging and abandonment work.
We are pressuring up the new reservoir and expect to start producing from the B and C Fault Blocks within the next couple of months.
Oyster Bayou continues to show solid reservoir response increasing 1 000 barrels a day roughly sequentially in Q4.
This increase is due to strong response from new patterns in the A-2 Zone which we have discussed on prior calls.
The development of Oyster Bayou's A-2 Zone was completed at year-end and we expect to see additional production growth in early 2015 as additional patterns respond.
But we do expect production to peak this year.
At Heidelberg our tertiary production increased nearly 450 barrels per day from Q3 the result of installing additional compression in early Q4 and additional development in the field.
We expect continued moderate production growth at Heidelberg for 2015 as the new Tuscaloosa units and Christmas Phase 3 patterns continue to respond.
Successful conformance[ph] work in the Utah is also helping.
As mentioned earlier Tinsley's production increased modestly adding over 450 barrels per day from Q3 the result of installing additional compression in early Q4; completion of the last phase which is Phase 8 of development; and modified injections to improve performance in the East Fault Block.
This field continues to perform strongly although production is believed to be at or near its peak.
For our mature area tertiary properties production decreased just under 1 000 barrels per day due to normal declines after being nearly flat for the prior 3 quarters.
We are reviewing these older fields with the IITs as well as newer larger floods and optimistic we can mitigate some of these declines in the future.
Production at Conroe increased by over 1 300 barrels a day equivalent on a sequential quarter following the resolution of third party gas processing issues plus additional recompletions and workovers.
Let's now move to the Rockies.
Our Cedar Creek Anticline production was flat sequentially during Q4 as the production declined at the Cedar Hills South unit related to water injection facility failure in Q3 was offset by improved waterflood performance in the mature areas.
Bell Creek tertiary production was flat quarter-to-quarter due to temporarily shutting in injectors in our first phase of development to secure some off-lease wellbores.
We expect Bell Creek production to continue to grow in 2015 as we restore full injection into Phase 1 and we expect Phase 3 to begin to respond.
Hartzog Draw production was up slightly quarter-to-quarter related to the installation of artificial lift in our new horizontal wells.
Looking at CO2 supply and transportation in the Gulf Coast.
We produced approximately 880 million cubic feet of CO2 per day from Jackson Dome coupled with approximately 70 million cubic feet a day from industrial CO2 supply meeting the demands of the EOR fields.
Our man-made supply is expected to get a boost from the gasification and carbon capture systems at Mississippi Power's Kemper County power plant in the next 12 to 18 months.
We recently completed the only well planned for 2015 at Jackson Dome.
We're awaiting completion and flow results but early indications are that this well will be productive.
We have completed the Webster pipeline from Denbury's Green Pipeline to Denbury's Webster field and that was completed on time and on budget.
In the Rockies we received over 110 million cubic feet a day of CO2 from our combined sources at LaBarge and Lost Cabin.
Operational challenges at our Lost Cabin facility appear to be rectified with a new piston head design that has been installed and has been running without issue.
Our technical teams have been looking at multiple options to permanently solve the issues at Riley Ridge.
Efforts are currently underway to determine solutions for the sulfur deposition in the wellbore.
Engineering has engaged several consultants to assist us with this solution.
Based on our current plan we do not expect natural gas or helium production for the field to resume until 2016.
This will not have a significant impact on our near term cash flow as it is only marginally economic with the natural gas and helium.
But long term of course Riley Ridge represents the anchor source of CO2 for the Rockies.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Mark to give you financial details for the quarter.
Thanks Phil.
My comments will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release primarily focusing on the sequential changes from the third quarter.
I'll also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you in updating your financial models to reflect our current outlook for 2015.
Let me start off by saying that we are pleased with our Q4 2014 results with our adjusted earnings and cash flow coming in ahead of consensus.
Our non-GAAP adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $93 million or $0.27 per diluted share that was up $2 million from the third quarter due primarily to higher production and lower costs offset in part by significantly lower oil prices.
However our hedges buffered most of the drop in oil prices during Q4.
Our GAAP net income was significantly higher than this due mostly to a pretax gain of $451 million on fair value adjustments related to our hedge positions.
Turning to cash flow.
Our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $350 million for Q4 up $34 million from the third quarter that was due primarily to a $43 million benefit for current income taxes.
Lower prices reduced our cash inflows by roughly $161 million this quarter.
However the changes in our hedge receipts offset $129 million of this decrease; and higher production increased our cash flow by $9 million along with other cost reductions.
Our Q4 realized oil price excluding hedges declined to $70.80 per barrel this quarter down nearly $24 per barrel from Q3 as oil prices trended down throughout Q4.
Including hedges our net realized oil price was down only $4.25 per barrel from Q3.
Our NYMEX differential improved slightly from Q3 to approximately $2.25 below NYMEX during Q4.
Oil differentials for our Gulf Coast tertiary production which primarily receive LLS pricing averaged approximately $1.50 per barrel above NYMEX down $0.85 per barrel from Q3.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential improved by over $2.60 per barrel selling at around $9 per barrel below NYMEX in Q4.
We currently expect our overall oil differential to average between $2 and $4 per barrel below NYMEX in the first quarter of 2015.
Moving on to our hedge positions.
For 2015 we have roughly 75% of our estimated oil volumes hedged with an average downside price of approximately $85 per barrel on a NYMEX-equivalent basis which assumes LLS prices are about $3 above NYMEX.
Roughly half of our contracts are three-way collars or enhanced swaps which also have a sold put at around $65 thus capping the benefit that we can receive under those contracts at approximately $25.
We have not added any new hedges since the third quarter of 2014.
Full details of our hedged positions are shown in the investor presentation that's available on our website.
On the expense side LOE per BOE came in better than we expected at $23 per BOE and $22.64 per BOE if we exclude the roughly $3 million in incremental Delhi remediation costs in Q4.
On a sequential quarter basis and excluding nonrecurring items this is approximately $0.50 lower than LOE per BOE in Q3 due primarily to lower CO2 costs which fluctuate with the price of oil.
This was our lowest LOE per BOE in over a year and we believe we could see further improvements in our LOE if oil prices remain low.
During Q4 we also received an enhanced oil recovery project tax exemption for our Oyster Bayou field which resulted in approximately $7 million cumulative reduction in severance taxes during Q4 and will result in lower severance payments going forward.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $35 million in Q4 $5 million lower than Q3 and better than our guidance due in part to lower bonus accruals in Q4.
For the fourth quarter $4 million of G&amp;A was related to stock-based compensation.
For the first quarter of 2015 we expect G&amp;A expense to be between $40 million and $45 million with approximately $7 million to $10 million of this amount being stock-based compensation.
Just a reminder that our G&amp;A is generally higher in the first quarter of each year due to incremental payroll taxes and other burdens associated with divesting of long-term incentives during the first quarter.
For the full year 2015 we expect that our G&amp;A will remain relatively consistent or be down slightly from 2014 levels.
As Phil mentioned we are aggressively working on our cost structure and we believe we can find additional efficiencies.
Our depreciation depletion and amortization expense increased about $11 million from Q3 to approximately $22.80 per BOE.
This increase was primarily due to the increase in capital costs and future development costs in our reserve report.
We had roughly $13 million in asset impairments in Q4.
However we did not have a full cost ceiling write-down at year end.
We believe that if prices remain low we could have a full cost ceiling write-down in the first or second quarter of 2015.
Also because the ceiling test utilizes the first day of the month average price for the last 12 months the prices used may continue to trend down over the course of the year.
We could also have an impairment of our goodwill at some point depending on oil price movements and changes in our enterprise value.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was down about $2 million from Q3 due in part to capitalized interest being about $1 million higher in Q3 or about $7 million this quarter.
We currently expect that our capitalized interest will be slightly lower in 2015 averaging about $3 million to $5 million per quarter.
Our effective income tax rate for Q4 was slightly below our estimated statutory rate of 38%.
In December of 2014 the government extended certain bonus depreciation deductions which allowed us to recognize current income tax benefit of approximately $43 million for tax losses that we plan to carry back to prior periods.
For 2015 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be between 38% and 39% with the current tax representing around 5% or less of total taxes.
Moving on to our capital structure.
Total long-term debt at December 31 was approximately $3.5 billion which was down about $24 million from Q3.
We had $395 million drawn on our bank credit facility at December 31 down $15 million from Q3.
In December of 2014 we refinanced our bank credit facility which extended the maturity of our facility from 2016 out to 2019.
We've set the initial borrowing base at $3 billion but left the bank's commitment amount unchanged at $1.6 billion leaving significant cushion between the borrowing base and what we have asked the banks to commit to.
In addition we were able to reduce the interest margin on our borrowings by roughly 25 basis points.
Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination will be around May 1 utilizing price decks as set by the banks.
Unless price decks change significantly from current decks we would expect to still have significant cushion between our borrowing base and the bank's commitment level.
Based on our current -- based on current future oil prices we would not expect to have an issue with our bank covenants in 2015.
However once we get into 2016 we are significantly less hedged so we could have issues with our debt-to-EBITDA covenant of 4.25x if oil prices remain at depressed levels.
As such we anticipate working with our bank group in the near term to restructure our covenant to accommodate a potentially lower oil price environment.
Based on our current future prices and assumptions for cash flows capital expenditures and dividends for 2015 we anticipate ending the year with bank debt of between $200 million and $300 million.
And now I'll turn it over to Brad for an update on reserves and our innovation and improvement teams.
Thank you Mark.
Denbury's total preserved -- total estimated proved oil and gas reserves at December 31 2014 were 438 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Most of this is liquids 83%; and 77% are in proved developed category.
Denbury's CO2 tertiary operations account for 49% of these proved reserves.
The 438 million barrels equivalent is a net reduction during 2014 of 30 million barrels.
This is primarily due to the 27 million barrels that was actually produced in 2014.
Other minor revisions and additions accounted for a small amount of 3% net reduction.
Denbury's proved reserves normally go up in larger steps when the new CO2 floods are started and our response to CO2 is demonstrated as per SEC rules.
As planned in 2014 we didn't start any new floods.
Although additional phases of existing CO2 floods were implemented including proved undeveloped reserves into proved developed reserves lowering our PUD percentage from 38% of the total reserves at December 31 2013 to only 23% this year end.
An example of this is implementing the last phase of Tinsley which allowed us to reach new record production in that field.
Denbury has a number of new CO2 floods that are planned in future years including Webster Conroe and a number of the fields in the Cedar Creek Anticline.
We are working particularly on these fields with our innovation and improvement teams to enhance -- further enhance the profitability of these fields.
The estimated discounted net present value of Denbury's proved reserves at December 31 2014 before projected income taxes and using a 10% per annum discount rate was $8.7 billion.
This compares to $10.6 billion at December 31 2013.
Of course the main reason for this reduction was the lower oil prices and oil differentials.
This accounted for $1.4 billion of the reduction or 74%.
As per SEC rules the estimated proved reserves and PV-10 Values were computed using the first day of the month 12-month average prices.
Compared to the year end 2013 the 2014 average NYMEX oil prices were lower by a little less than $2 a barrel and the 2014 oil price differentials decreased by approximately $6.50 per barrel.
The 2014 average Henry Hub natural gas prices were up by $0.63 per MMBtu compared to 2013.
The majority of the remaining PV-10 Value reduction was the result of our lower capital spending plans for 2015.
This resulted in the deferral of certain projects to future years which had a lower present value.
I think that the exciting part of my message is that Denbury is taking the opportunity during this period of reduced capital expenditures to invest our manpower in a program of initiatives to improve its operational efficiency and the profitability of Denbury's existing assets and future projects.
We're using innovation and improvement teams consisting of about 8 experts and people from the teams to take a deep dive into each of the fields or our process in over a course of a few weeks.
And during this time they will generate ideas for improving value.
The plan is to complete innovation and improvement team reviews on every field and on several key processes by middle of 2015.
Denbury is on schedule with this program of initiatives.
9 reviews have been completed and we have identified several promising opportunities.
More specifically we have completed 7 reviews of fields.
These fields account for 38% of our proved reserves.
These teams have identified several opportunities for increasing CO2 flood recovery efficiency for reducing CO2 purchase requirements for developing additional areas and horizons for optimizing field development plans and reducing operating cost.
We have already begun to implement the highest value opportunities.
Some of these will contribute to proved -- improved business performance during 2015 while others will improve the profitability of future projects for years to come.
One example is the Hastings CO2 flood.
This was done in the fourth quarter of last year 2013.
We are implementing the CO2 floods in Fault Block B and C and converting this into a more efficient development concept that we call the series flood.
Injection began in January 2015 and production is expected to begin in Quarter 2 2015.
Denbury has also completed reviews of 2 key processes; one is production forecasting and the other is reservoir management.
What I mean by reservoir management is this is how we monitor the CO2 flood in the reservoir and make adjustments to optimize recovery during the CO2 flood process.
These teams identified several improvement opportunities which are now being implemented with completions planned by Quarter 2 2015.
These improvements will increase the productivity of our staff improve forecasting accuracy and give Denbury competitive advantage in managing CO2 floods.
4 additional processes are being reviewed by innovation and improvement teams including one on facility modernization that is aimed at reducing facility development costs.
So with that I'll now turn it back to Ross.
Thank you Brad.
That concludes the management's prepared remarks.
Lori can you please open up the call for questions? [Operator Instructions] And our first question from the line of Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Phil I wanted to talk to you about the strategy movement going forward.
Obviously you were -- you adopted kind of a growth in income strategy and we've had a sharp pullback in oil prices but let's just say that commodity prices were to normalize in the mid- to low-70s what kind of strategy would you see Denbury adopting under that kind of price outlook? Well we obviously need to adjust to that environment.
We're focused on reducing cost and improving efficiencies.
It's hard to know exactly where that will come out.
But we think we're going to definitely improve those metrics.
And so if prices were normalized in the 70s which I guess is probably where most of Wall Street's consensus is I think we can resume our growth in income strategy.
The pace at which we grow and the pace at which we grow dividends of course will depend somewhat on -- well not somewhat but quite a bit on the oil price environment.
But we're also working on the cost side.
I think we'll see significant improvements there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up you guys have always managed the business pretty conservatively.
You talked a little bit about the covenant potential next year.
I'm just wondering about ways that you can proactively manage the balance sheet to improve some of your liquidity and debt metrics going forward.
Yes.
I mean I think we -- obviously what we've done is try to manage our bank debt at a pretty conservative level and we've turned out a good chunk of our overall debt to a sub debt that does -- its maturity is out past 2020.
So at we think pretty attractive rates.
So we had just under $400 million drawn on our bank line year-end.
We see that going down between $200 million to $300 million -- to between $200 million to $300 million by the end of next year.
And so that doesn't leave a whole lot of flexibility in terms of how much more you can reduce your debt levels.
So obviously we've seen other people do some transactions but a big chunk of our debt is sub debt.
So we'll work with the banks I mean I think we're in relatively good shape relative to some people.
We still have hedges going out into 2016 but at a much lesser degree.
And we're just looking and looking forward to different possibilities and different oil price scenarios and we want to make sure that our debt position with the banks which is a primary source of our liquidity is not jeopardized.
And we continue to stay as -- in compliant with our bank agreements.
So I think from where we sit we feel good about where we are and I think we'll continue to work with our bank group and manage that going forward just fine.
And our next question from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed this Mark.
What was the actual CO2 cost per barrel in the fourth quarter? Keep looking.
See if I can...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And while you're looking I could continue on if you like.
Sure.
Go on to the next question go ahead.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And so CO2 directly correlated with oil.
What's the potential on some of the other costs that you incur at the OpEx level such as fuel and chemicals that I guess are partially correlated with oil.
They've been running maybe in the $8 per barrel range combined the past several quarters.
Are you seeing declines there? Or do you anticipate those declining? Well we have -- one we're going back to virtually every vendor that we have and looking for cost reductions.
We're starting to see some of that.
The supply group is actively pushing our suppliers to help us in this downturn.
So I think you'll see -- generally you'll see cost savings in almost every category.
It may vary a bit depending on who the vendor is and what it is.
Secondly as Brad mentioned we see ways to improve the efficiency of the CO2 and use less CO2 improve -- there's cost saving ideas on the plants and so forth.
So I think those will also add to the savings.
So I think we're optimistic we can drive LOE down a little bit more.
Of course it helps that the CO2 cost comes down with the price of oil and that's been probably the biggest immediate change.
Mark do you have that CO2 number [ph]...
Yes.
So for the fourth quarter just for -- across our tertiary properties it was $6.18 versus $6.55 in Q3.
And if you extrapolate it across the whole company's production it's $3.43 for the quarter versus $3.72 last quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
Continuing with some of the OpEx components.
So workover cost per barrel are down pretty significantly the last several quarters.
Do you see a situation where that has to tick back up sometime in the next year so to fully maximize field production? Well 2 things -- or 1 thing in particular has happened there.
We're trying to do root cause analysis and really look at trends and so forth.
And I know at CCA and several other fields they worked very hard to avoid the repeat failures and try new things monitor that.
And I think that's part of the reason you've seen workover costs come down.
There will always be some level of workover costs it's never going to go completely away.
So I don't know probably to get it down much lower we need a little help from the vendors which we may get some help on that side too.
But you are correct there will be some base level of -- it's basically maintenance to keep the fields producing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly so you provided the PV-10 at year-end '14 based on I guess around $92 oil at the field level.
Did you happen to have a PV-10 estimate based on current oil futures at that time as well as costs at that time? No we don't.
I mean we have some -- we don't -- we've got it I just don't want to disclose it.
The hard part of that is of course adjusting the costs side to the current environment.
I mean of course the SEC price deck is at $90-plus and uses costs based on historic cost levels.
So I don't think we're far enough along yet to see what a real number would be in this price environment.
And we'll go next to Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> You guys historically have done a great job on hedging.
And I was curious how you're approaching that now.
I know you've got some good hedges in place for '16 but you do like to hedge on a rolling basis.
So how are you approaching that now? Well Pearce can you tell me what oil is going to do and then you could help me with that decision? I mean the problem is as you know oil price is probably what low $60s or $60-there-ish in 2016 and we've just been hesitant to lock that in.
So I guess we're kind of taking a little bit of approach and kind of wait and see.
But it gets to be a little bit of a judgment call.
Are prices going to be better or worse than that or do we expect them to -- and so should we lock that in? We've just been hesitant; to be straight with you we've just been hesitant to lock in $60.
Research Division</strong> Understand.
And then my follow-up.
At the Analyst Day back in November you had mentioned that you might need to increase CapEx in 2016 to keep production flat.
I think I've got that right.
And so is that still true? And if so by what magnitude would you need to do that to kind of keep production flat '16 versus '15? Well yes.
Based on our historical costs and so forth we -- to hold production flat did need just a little bit more.
It wasn't significant.
We're hoping we can get enough efficiencies and so forth that we could keep it flat or close to flat with current spending levels.
So that's what we're shooting for.
And our next question from Michael Shinnick with Wasatch.
I wanted to follow up on the same hedging strategy.
If you could share a little more on your decision framework for -- or when how much to hedge.
So I understand your answer to the last caller hesitant to lock $60 but how do you think about it as hopefully costs are coming down and there might be an opportunity to hedge at higher levels call it $65 or $70? Well obviously the higher numbers are more attractive.
I mean if you look at -- if you back up and look at our historic hedging philosophy we've always kind of hedged from like 12 to 24 months out.
So actually we're still within those guidelines.
We do have hedges going out into the first part of '16.
it's not quite as high a percent in the first quarter and even less in the second but we actually do have hedges through June 30.
So we feel like we're still within our kind of current band of -- or our current operating philosophy.
It's a I think an item that we discuss with the board at every meeting and so the hard part has been kind of figuring out where the low is and where prices are going.
Is it going to stabilize? So I think we'll have ongoing discussions about when and what to hedge.
We just haven't done anything in the last few months and are waiting for things to stabilize.
Obviously if prices get a little higher I think that would be much more interesting.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is do you have a current decision framework so that if those price hedging opportunities came available you would take them? Or are you saying "We're still waiting.
We take it to the board and think about it?" I don't know that we have a specific number.
And so I don't know the that I can answer that with that much specificity.
Because obviously here in the first half of '15 you'll be rolling over that 12-month outlook or framework.
And as you said the hedge book in the first half of '16 isn't at that 75% level.
So is there a percent of '16 that you'd expect to have hedged as we exit the first quarter here of '15? I don't think I'd expect to at the end of the first quarter of '15.
Again I think it's just -- I can't give you specifics because I don't know for sure what our threshold is and that is also as I said a board discussion.
So we will look at it and we have hedged at various levels sometimes as high as 75% which is where we are in the next 3 quarters.
But other times we don't go quite that high.
So it's just something we'll have -- we're going to look at.
I don't -- I really don't know for sure and can't share a specific number.
And then another line of decision framework.
What would cause you to further reduce CapEx here in '15? And if so how much do you think you would or could reduce it by? Well we don't anticipate -- I guess the answer -- short answer is if oil prices were to drop significantly then we'd re-look at that.
We actually have probably a little bit of a cushion right at this moment and think that based on current strip prices we'll generate maybe a little bit of free cash flow.
Mark as you noted had bank [ph]] actually going down just a little bit.
So we have a little room.
If prices drop precipitously then I think we'll look at CapEx and we'll make that decision when we get there.
We are continually monitoring our projects.
We generally at this point are still staying with the $550 million budget but we are moving things around depending on which things are more economic.
And we're trying to high-grade and for instance we're probably not going to drill the wells at Hartzog but we may shift that drilling to CCA where it's more economic et cetera.
So we are continually doing that.
I don't think there are major shifts in the capital budget but we're continuing to monitor what's economic at today's price and we'll keep doing that.
And is there a way you could separate that $550 million into maintenance CapEx versus growth CapEx? Well I guess it depends on how you define that question.
Most people would define -- or a lot of people anyway define maintenance CapEx as what it takes to keep production flat.
So I guess in that sense we need to spend most of that to keep production flat.
Part of the only exception that's in there is there is some spending for Webster in the budget that really doesn't do anything for 2015; and there's a little bit of spending also at Delhi for a future NGL plant which also doesn't do anything really for 2015.
They both would benefit future periods.
So in theory you could take those 2 off I guess and still stay -- and get down your spending level that keeps production flat in '15.
It just -- it will cost you later on.
And we go next to Jeff Robertson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Phil a question on reserves.
Will the capital program in 2015 result in any new reserve bookings? And how does that factor into your thinking about where the borrowing base could be headed if commodity prices don't change dramatically in 2014 and '15 -- I'm sorry '15 and '16? I think it's probably doubtful at this point that we have meaningful reserve adds [ph] in '15.
The one possible exception I guess would be Webster depending on what we do there.
But it's probably at least questionable at this point.
Probably it could be a '16 event instead of '15.
As to the borrowing base as Mark indicated we have a $3 billion borrowing base and just a few hundred million drawn and a $1.6 billion commitment.
So we have a lot of flexibility there.
We do believe that the borrowing base may come down a little bit with price adjustments but actually for the banks as Brad mentioned they focus heavily on PDP.
And actually our PDP percentage improved significantly in '14 and the PUD percentage went down.
So as far as banks are concerned I think other than the price effect I think they're quite happy with it.
Research Division</strong> Will PDPs in '15 go up from conversion of PUDs as you all get more experienced with some of these floods? Yes you should have a little bit more conversion.
I mean we're basically -- the money we're spending for the most part is continued development of existing floods.
So you may have a little bit more of an adjustment in '15.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly Phil is there anything significant or I guess markedly that as you've done some of these field level evaluations that you would either have done differently on the fields where you've put floods in or at least will as you look at implementing new floods in the future that will cause you all to do anything dramatically different operationally than what you've done in the past on these assets? Yes.
Let me take that.
It is -- we have the advantage of -- we've done several floods in the past and every field is a little bit different.
And so when you have a look at the performance you do learn.
You learn more about the geology you learn more about the compressor performances you learn several things.
And so we see opportunities for improving our existing fields and ways we'll do things differently in our future fields.
The series floods is one example.
We looked at the performance of using some other development techniques and when we look at the series flood we see those being superior.
One in particular that we're excited about is the NGL plants actually.
We talked about reducing power cost.
Let me just tell you this example of one where the NGL plant isn't just benefiting us from additional NGL revenue.
When you take out the NGLs and methane from the CO2 that you're reinjecting you actually increase its density and that makes it easier to inject requiring less power in your compressors to inject it.
You also lower the minimum miscibility pressure so you can operate the floods at a lower pressure.
And then you get additional benefit as well of you take that methane and we can use that to generate our own power at much less cost than we're getting from the external supplies.
And so we're looking at a lot of opportunities for these NGL plants not just at Delhi but also other fields as a way to be reducing our cost of development on several fronts.
Research Division</strong> So that'll give you a purer stream of CO2 as you recycle it into the field? That's right because we're currently getting about 10% methane in there and that 10% actually has a pretty large impact on your density and on your minimum miscibility pressure.
And so in the future floods I can see we actually should be putting these NGL plants in upfront and earlier because it just makes business sense to do it.
And we have a question from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just -- briefly I wanted to just-- as I look at the tertiary OpEx and nontertiary OpEx and the different category of those areas how would you characterize that kind of going through 2015? And can that come down if you're focused more on maintenance capital? Or is it -- is that -- a lot of the maintenance capital work would be CapEx versus OpEx? Well I mean we've got -- actually tertiary in total was not too dissimilar at this point.
Our total LOE is a little bit lower than our tertiary but it's only a couple of dollars -- it's less than a couple of dollars a barrel difference.
But they kind of interchange and one helps the other.
I mean I think we're focused on every line item.
CO2 will come down a little bit more if prices stay low further I think we'll optimize it.
Power and fuel were as Brad said we're looking at ways to reduce power costs.
The NGL plants other ways to maybe make our own power from natural gas or whatever or ways to potentially help that.
Labor we're trying to manage that.
Repairs and maintenance that probably will be largely what can we get out of the vendors.
Chemicals we're working on the vendors.
Also some of the IITs have shown ways of maybe we can do a little bit more predictive use of the chemicals and therefore use a little bit less in addition to lowering the cost per unit.
So we're focused on all of those.
I think LOE has continued to trend down over the last year and I think we have some more room to get that a little bit lower.
But capital we -- it's just -- we had to focus on capital too much it's a little harder nature [ph] but we did come in under budget in 2014 and that was part of the reason we generated free cash flow.
And so we're continuing to monitor capital very closely and look for ways to improve that.
For instance at CCA we're changing the well design a bit and we're going to drill a vertical well with 2 horizontal legs.
We get a little bit more bang for the buck and it's still very economic at these prices.
So continually we're working for ways to improve our efficiencies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then did you say -- I heard part of the initial comments I had to jump off for a minute but did you guys give a comment in terms of how many conversions -- how many producers to injectors or new injectors will be drilled in 2015 to expand the patterns and keep moving the PDPs along? No we didn't.
I don't know that I know that number either.
We are expanding patterns at Bell Creek.
Well all of the fields that are growing generally are having expanding but Hastings Bell Creek are the 2 biggest.
Delhi potentially is pretty much fully developed.
And Oyster Bayou is pretty much fully developed.
[Operator Instructions] And we have no additional questions.
I'll turn it back to the speakers for closing remarks.
Thank you Lori.
Before you go let me cover a few housekeeping items.
On the conference front Mark Allen will be giving a presentation at the JPMorgan Global High Yield &amp; Leveraged Finance Conference in Miami and Phil will be presenting at the Crdit Suisse 20th Annual Energy Summit both of which will occur on February 24.
The webcast for Phil's presentation will be accessible through the Investor Relations website.
Lastly for your calendars we plan to report first quarter 2015 results on Wednesday May 6 2015 and hold our conference call that day at our usual time of 10:00 a.m.
Central.
Thank you again for joining us on today's call and we look forward to keeping you updated as our progress continues.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen the conference call will be made available for replay beginning today at 12:30 p.m.
Central running until March 21 at midnight Central.
You can access the AT&amp;T Teleconference Replay System by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and for international parties at 612 -- or pardon me for international parties dial (320) 365-3844.
The replay access code 324016.
And that concludes our teleconference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would like now to turn the conference over to your host Ross Campbell.
Please go ahead.
Thank you CeCe and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me on the call from Denbury today are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Brad Kerr our Senior Vice President Development Technical and Innovation.
Before we begin let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on the call today.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and the news release today all of which are posted on our website at denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosures on these measures are provided on today's news release.
With that I will turn the call over to Phil.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Ross.
Good morning.
In spite of low oil prices we have some positive things happening here at Denbury.
Our per barrel tertiary operating costs were down for the fifth consecutive quarter down 6% sequentially.
Our production and other results are on track as expected and we continue to find ways to improve our business with ideas emerging from the innovation and improvement teams.
Further we have solidified our financial strength by amending our bank agreement such that we do not expect to have any covenant issues during the term of the bank loan which expires in 2019.
Mark will give you more details on that in a little bit.
Also with our cost-cutting measures and other efforts we now expect to generate in excess of $150 million of free cash flow this year that being cash flow from operations less projected capital expenditures in our current dividend level.
These funds will likely be used for debt reduction but could be used for other things as well such as acquisitions or capital expenditures.
Bottom line I think it's great to be able to generate that level of free cash keep production flat and pay dividend on this current price environment.
Of course in order to generate that much cash flow that requires help from our hedges.
As you know we are well hedged in 2015 but previously had very few hedges back to the first quarter of 2016.
With the recent improvement in oil prices we have started to layer in a few hedge contracts in Q2 and Q3 of 2016.
The details are available on our website and I think Mark may touch on it too.
But we generally entered into swaps in the low $60s and collars with roughly a $55 floor price and a $70-plus ceiling price.
So our strategy continues and we want to make our future cash flow more predictable and we will continue to look at opportunities to add to our hedge position doing a little bit at a time and layering on the hedges.
Although we haven't seen many M&amp;A deals we have entered into an agreement to purchase one small bolt-on acquisition a field located just a few miles from Hastings in the Houston area.
This is small.
It's a $20 million deal and has very minor production but we do expect that it can add somewhere in the range of 10 million barrels net to Denbury with an EOR flood in the future.
We continue to look for these types of transactions where we can pick up the field for basically the crude producing value in this low price environment.
As we stated on the fourth quarter call we have started IIT reviews all of our assets and now reviewed over 50%.
The plan is to have these reviews completed by mid-year.
Brad will talk more about a few of these items in the call.
The benefits are the quarterly drop or one of the benefits is the quarterly drop in LOE per BOE.
First quarter op costs averaged $21.08 per BOE 7% and 18% lower than the fourth quarter of 2014 and first quarter of 2014 respectively.
I think it's important to highlight that we have been able to move about $5 a barrel or about 20% out of our op cost.
Another way to say that is for every $1 reduction in cost adds about $25 million in cash flow.
These types of improvements are partly correlated to the price of oil as well as our efficient use of our CO2 supply.
These were the types of ideas and initiatives that allow us to thrive even if oil prices don't return to previous levels.
Let me touch a little bit more on operating results and field results.
Total company production for the quarter was in line with our guided range of 72 500 BOEs per day to 75 500 BOEs per day.
Our tertiary oil production averaged just over 41 800 Bbls/d consistent with the previous quarter even after absorbing the lower production related to the reversionary interest in Delhi in the fourth quarter.
The strong growth areas in EOR were Oyster Bayou Bell Creek and Tinsley.
At Hastings sequential production decreased about 100 barrels per day as we converted and initiated a series flood and completing the plugging and abandonment work.
We let the new area pressure up for an additional month in order to be closer to visibility pressure.
So we are running 30 days to 45 days behind schedule but are starting to see a positive response to the B and C fault blocks.
Oyster Bayou continues to show solid reservoir response increasing over 200 barrels a day sequentially in Q1.
This increase is due to continued response in the new patterns in the A-2 zone.
Development of Oyster Bayou's A-2 zone was completed at year end and we expect to see additional production growth in the first half of 2015 as additional patterns (6:12) respond though we do expect production to peak this year.
At Heidelberg our tertiary production decreased slightly 137 barrels per day from Q4.
We expect continued relatively flat production at Heidelberg for 2015 as we work through a few conformance issues.
We have completed our initial IIT evaluation of Heidelberg and concluded that due to the complexity of the field and its multiple producing horizon (6:37) that has sizable value and upside that this opportunity deserves further review in order to optimize its remaining EOR potential.
As such we have temporarily reduced our capital expenditures at Heidelberg to the absolute minimum in order to focus on maximizing its value in the future.
Tinsley's production increased modestly adding over 150 barrels per day from Q4 the result of modified injections to improve performance in the East Fault Block.
This field continues to perform strongly although it too is expected to be at or near its peak production.
For the mature area tertiary properties production decreased just under 300 barrels a day due to normal declines.
This is on the low-end of the expected decline range as normally we would expect declines in the mature fields to be between 10% and 15% per year.
We are continuing to review the rest of these fields and are optimistic we can continue to mitigate some of these declines with our IIT work and increased focus on reservoir management and surveillance.
In the Rockies our Cedar Creek Anticline production stayed relatively flat sequentially.
This is a result of continued optimization and higher production attributable to our net process interest which has yielded a production benefit in this lower price environment.
We have also just recently started one of our dual horizontal wells in that field and hope to have results on that in the second quarter.
Bell Creek tertiary production was up sequentially due to production from the new area of Phase 3.
We have started a WAG process in Phase 1 of Bell Creek and expect it to assist in future production growth.
Hartzog Draw production was up sequentially related to lower-than-expected declines from our previous horizontal well development as well as focus on reducing failure rates.
On CO2 supply we produced about 880 million cubic feet per day from Jackson Dome during the quarter.
And we also used about 75 million cubic feet per day from an industrial source CO2.
Our man-made supply is expected to get a boost from the gasification and carbon capture system at Mississippi Power Kemper County plant probably in about the next year.
In the Rocky Mountains we received over 100 million cubic feet of CO2 per day from our combined sources at LaBarge and Lost Cabin.
We've been receiving excess CO2 from LaBarge so we're working on a utilization plan for that CO2.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Mark to give you financial details.
[002H1R-E Mark Allen] Thanks Phil.
My comments today will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release.
I'll be primarily focusing on the sequential changes from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
I'll also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you in updating your financial models to reflect our current outlook and I'll update you on our recent bank redetermination and amendment.
In the first quarter our non-GAAP adjusted net income was $23 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
This was in line with analyst estimates but down $70 million from the fourth quarter as the drop in oil prices caused a significant drop in our revenues this quarter.
Our revenues were down $127 million after considering the impacts of our hedges.
On a GAAP basis we had a net loss of $108 million for the quarter due to $146 million pre-tax write-down of oil and natural gas properties and a pre-tax loss of $65 million on fair value adjustments related to our commodity hedge positions.
Turning to cash flow our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $195 million for Q1 also in line with analyst estimates.
That was down from $350 million in the fourth quarter due primarily to the drop in our revenues.
Plus we had a $45 swing in current taxes which was a benefit to us in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our first quarter realized oil price excluding hedges declined to $46 per barrel.
That is down 35% from Q4.
We recognized $148 million in cash settlements from our hedges this quarter which made our after hedge per barrel realized price of little over $69.
And that was compared to almost $87 per barrel in Q4.
Our realized oil price average $2.81 below NYMEX in Q1.
That's down slightly from $2.24 below NYMEX last quarter.
This decrease was primarily driven by weakness in our LLS price differentials.
All differentials for our Gulf Coast tertiary production which primarily receives LSS pricing averaged $0.22 per barrel below NYMEX this quarter and that was down from $1.52 above NYMEX prices last quarter.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential improved by over $1 per barrel selling at around $8 per barrel below NYMEX in Q1.
We currently expect our overall oil differential will remain in the range of $2 to $4 per barrel below NYMEX prices in the second quarter of 2015.
However we are encouraged by the recent strengthening in the LLS price differential.
Our hedging positions for 2015 haven't changed but as Phil mentioned we recently began adding toward 2016 positions.
For the second quarter of 2016 we went from 12 000 barrels per day hedged to 31 500 barrels per day hedged adding a combination of swaps and costless collars to our existing contracts.
These additions make our average downside hedge price at around $71 per barrel on WTI equivalent basis and our average upside price around $75 on WTI equivalent basis.
We do have sold puts on 12 000 barrels at around $67.
For Q3 we have added 5 000 barrels per day with costless collars and floors with average  or sorry with costless collars that have floors and caps averaging roughly $55 and $71 on WTI equivalent basis.
All this information is summarized and included in our latest slideshow presentation on our website.
On the expense side LOE per barrel came in better than we expected at $21 per barrel.
On a sequential quarter basis this is $1.56 lower than our base LOE in Q4 primarily due to lower CO2 costs and utilization.
This is our lowest LOE per barrel in over two years.
G&amp;A expenses were roughly $46 million in Q1.
This is on a high end of our expectation.
And as you recall our G&amp;A in the first quarter is always higher as we have incremental payroll burdens from bonus and long-term incentive payouts in the first quarter.
Also due to reduced capital spending levels we have less overhead than anticipated being capitalized which put us at the higher end of our range.
For the first quarter $7 million of our net G&amp;A was related to stock-based compensation.
In the second quarter of 2015 we expect G&amp;A expense to be between $36 million and $41 million with approximately $7 million to $10 million of that amount being stock-based comp.
As I mentioned on the fourth quarter call we expect our G&amp;A in 2015 to be flat or slightly lower than 2014 levels.
This reduction would be more except for some of the impacts that lower capital spending has had on our allocation of costs.
We've recognized the full cost full ceiling test write-down of $146 million in Q1.
As you may or may not know companies that follow full-cost accounting for oil and gas properties have a different impairment test than successful efforts companies.
Full cost companies are required to use the average trailing 12-month price when comparing the value of its reserves against the book value of its oil and gas properties.
As such when prices fall dramatically from levels at which costs have been accumulated including acquisitions at significantly higher price values it would force us to take a write-down of our property balance.
We have also noted that many of the full-cost companies have taken similar or more significant write-downs this quarter than us.
Based on recent oil price levels we expect that we could record a significantly larger write-down next quarter or subsequent quarters as current prices would indicate that the average price for the last 12 months will continue to average down.
On the interest expense net of amounts capitalized this was down slightly from Q4 mostly due to higher capitalized interest levels.
We currently expect that our capitalized interest will be approximately $5 million to $8 million per quarter for the remainder of 2015 depending on qualifying activities.
Our effective income tax rate for Q1 was slightly below our estimated statutory rate of 38%.
For the remainder of 2015 we anticipate our effective rate to be between 38% and 39% with current taxes being relatively minor at this point.
Moving on to our capital structure long-term debt at March 31 was approximately $3.6 billion which was up about $60 million from Q4.
We had $465 million drawn on our bank facility at March 31 and that was up $70 million from Q4.
The increase in bank debt was to cover Q1 working capital items such as accrued capital and compensation paid out in Q1.
Based on our current projection and prices we anticipate ending the year with bank debt of approximately $200 million to $300 million.
We recently completed our borrowing base redetermination with our lenders under our bank facility.
And as we anticipated due to the lower oil prices used by our banks and their evaluation our borrowing base was reduced from $3 billion to $2.6 billion.
However as we've only asked our lenders for $1.16 billion of commitments this reduction has no impact on our liquidity.
Also as previously mentioned in our fourth quarter call we have completed an amendment that restructure certain covenants under our credit facility in order to provide us more financial flexibility over the next several years and to allow us to better manage the credit extended by our banks.
I won't go into all the details as they are included in our press release but the primary adjustment was to our debt-to-EBITDAX coverage test which moved it to a secured coverage test for 2016 and 2017.
Our borrowing base redetermination is on an annual basis.
So our next scheduled redetermination will not be until May 2016.
Although we currently have no issues meeting our covenants we believe this is a prudent move in the current environment as we wanted to alleviate concerns around our bank credit facility.
And now let's turn it over to Brad.
Technical and Innovation</strong> Thank you Mark.
As Phil said we now have completed the improvement and innovation reviews on over 50% of our fields and the pace of completion is accelerating as we gain experience with the innovation process.
These reviews have already generated over 120 ideas that could help improve cost value and returns.
We have preliminary estimates of what these ideas might be worth and we are enthused about what they might mean for our future.
Additional technical studies are being done to mature and implement these opportunities some of which could take several months or even years to implement particularly the improvements to the development plans of the fields.
We will release more details hence these improvements are delivered and show up in our quarterly business results.
One theme I like to talk about today and has occurred in several fields and is already having an immediate benefit is the more efficient utilization of our CO2 purchase volumes.
We have found ways to do more with less.
Where we were once using 1 000 million cubic feet of new CO2 from Jackson Dome to supply our CO2 Gulf Coast fields we are now doing it with less than 800 million cubic feet a day.
This reduces our two largest areas of LOE CO2 purchase volumes and the power supply to run the compressors to inject it.
Secondly in fields where CO2 injection is limited by compressor capacity we are shifting CO2 injection from patterns with high producing gas oil ratios to patterns with low producing gas oil ratios.
This optimized the oil production that we get per Mcf of CO2 injected.
Lastly we wanted to give you an update on the implementation of the new series flood approach in Hastings Fault Block B and C.
We discussed this during the fourth quarter call.
CO2 injection began in January 2015.
And as Phil said we reached higher reservoir pressures that's closer to miscibility in the early April time period.
We have recently started to open up to producers and the initial production response that we are seeing is promising.
We look forward to giving you more detailed overview of the flood response at the end of the second quarter.
So with that I'll now turn you back to Ross.
Thank you Brad.
That concludes management's prepared remarks.
CeCe can you please open up the call for questions? Sure.
And our first question comes from Jason Wangler from Wunderlich.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey.
Inc.</span></strong> The acquisition you mentioned at Hastings or nearby Hastings just curious with the timing and plans there.
Obviously I assume it's pretty close so you could have something built out but are you looking at when that's going to maybe have some CO2 to it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think we're that far along yet.
We haven't closed yet.
We have an agreement.
Closing I believe is in a week or two but we just haven't really put it in the schedule yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And so it will happen here in the second quarter.
Are you seeing more deals kind of crop up whether it's the smaller ones like that or anything nearby your property because it seems like a lot of those small ones probably are around and if so would be pretty good opportunity especially given the cash flow generation you're seeing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we've seen an occasional deal.
I mean we're quite specialized in just looking for old oilfields that we can utilize in our EOR business.
So we don't chase every deal that's out there but we have one or two others we're looking at.
So we'll see.
But we're  these little add-ons are very accretive to pick them up basically for crude producing in a low price environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Pearce.
Phil congrats on the cost reductions on the LOE.
It's really good.
If you were to allocate by sort of percentage how much of that improvement do you think is related to CO2 and how much is related to lower oil and then how much is just from being more efficient? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I was looking at Mark; I was just trying to get the numbers.
Obviously CO2 drop is what  we've had significant drops as said  identified in the press release drops in workover costs power and CO2 and to some degree third-party.
Actually workover is probably actually the biggest and that one is really from focusing on the issues: how do we reduce what's the root cause analysis and really trying to manage that and manage the checkbook.
And so those have come down quite a bit particularly from a year ago.
CO2 has also come down.
As you know we get a lot of help from oil price because a lot of our CO2 fluctuates with the price of oil.
So I'd have to say the majority of our drop in CO2 is really commodity price driven.
However we are very focused on using less.
And I believe in the script we said I think we used in the upper 800s for CO2 in the first quarter but that's actually down thus far in the second quarter.
So it's actually looking promising going forward.
So those two are probably the biggest components of the drop.
Smaller decreases and maybe other cost relating to benefits or reductions from third-party expenses and so forth.
Excellent.
And then if you look out to next year to 2016 if you were to keep production roughly flat when we've discussed this in the past I think you've mentioned on the earnings conference call the prior one that you might need a slight uptick in CapEx for 2016.
Is that still the case or is it more kind of flattish CapEx equals flattish production? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Historically we said we might need a little more.
I am hopeful that with some of these IITs and so forth that maybe we can hold it flat with existing CapEx.
In other words i.e.
being more efficient with our capital dollars.
I think that's possible.
We're shooting for at least 10% 15% improvement in our efficiency.
So if you extrapolate that I think you can get to the same answer.
Historically we also said we probably need something close to $70 oil to fund our existing CapEx program and dividends with cost coming down and so forth and of course the strip has come up.
It's looking more promising that maybe we can fund that with the current strip price which is in the mid-$60s I believe now for 2016.
Thank you.
And then last one from me.
Phil if you look at possibly selling some matured tertiary properties and if so is there a pretty strong market for those? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well one negative to selling matured EOR properties is of course they're not worth too much to the new owner unless you give them the CO2 supply.
We've actually looked at some of our older mature fields Little Creek of course being the oldest because that was started by Shell actually in the 1980s.
And we've found that the CO2 that's in the ground is actually quite valuable.
So I think the more likely scenario is that we will ultimately I guess blow it down or i.e.
recover as much CO2 as we can from the field and transport it to other fields.
And we've done the economics on that and found that that's probably the most economic and the best use of that field.
Excellent.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.
And the next question comes from Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Technical and Innovation</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Couple of things.
You talked about the strip for oil including a bit into 2016 and if you think of your longer-term planning if 2015 turns out to be kind of a pivotal year as far as whether oil prices are going to go back to where they were or going to hang out more like where they are I guess I'm trying to figure out have you  is it pretty much established now sort of what your tertiary peak is going to look like.
In past years it was going to be a very fairly steep peak just as you layered fields on.
Is that definitely going to be flatter when you look at the overall portfolio now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know if I can answer that Noel.
I think near term it's going to  we expect it to be flattish.
We have deferred expansion of some of the floods in order to maximize the capital dollars in key production plant.
So that will affect our peak but I don't know that we kind of need to get a little more certainty on oil prices and maybe a little bit more work done on reviewing our fields so we can put together an updated long-range plan before I can answer that question.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure.
And with the cost savings we see in the industry the Conroe Pipeline are the cost for that pretty much set or have you gotten into any contracts on sort of the materials or services tie or do you stand to benefit from oil slowdown for the cost of that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well again I'm not sure I can answer it.
We haven't really tried to rebid that recently because Conroe is probably still a few years out.
I mean I think costs have down a little bit but I don't know that we have any good numbers to share because we really haven't chased it to be fair.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Fair enough.
And you mentioned that at Heidelberg that you're delaying CapEx going forward out there.
And you mentioned some conformance study you were doing.
Different deals have had conformance issues over the years.
Is this anything different from what you've seen in other fields? Technical and Innovation</span></strong> I'll take that.
Heidelberg is actually similar to several other fields.
It's different in that it's actually 10 different zones so it's more zones than some other fields.
Hastings is mainly four or five zones.
Tinsley is mainly one zone.
So it is more complex in that there's more layers and the good news is you have more zones there's more oil there.
And so it's just going to take some more work to figure out how to most efficiently get out the oil in all those zones.
So our goal would  to be effective in as many zones as possible.
And so it's really the same concepts that we're talking about with the series floods actually.
And so we  in our redevelopment plans we're looking at applying a lot of the learnings we've gotten from Hastings on the series flood approach in order to increase the amount to the reservoir that is swept.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's all for me.
Thanks.
Technical and Innovation</span></strong> Thanks.
And the next question we have comes from Tim Rezvan from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning folks.
Thank you for taking my question.
First one I wanted to talk on the production expense side.
You talked about the five quarters of sequential decline.
It sounds like you're halfway through your kind of IIT work.
I mean is there any reason to think that  or I guess how do you see that trending throughout the rest of the year with oil still generally weak? Do you think you can drive that down towards or below $20 at some point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we've always kind of used the goal of getting down to $20 or getting below that I think is pretty tough.
And of course now oil has actually come back up a little which will affect to some degree the cost of the CO2 so we're quite happy with the $21 that we just did for Q1 but I think it's going to be hard to get materially below that particularly with oil prices coming back.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then lastly I didn't hear any updates on Riley Ridge on prepared comments is there anything new to add on the work being done there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
We didn't put anything in the prepared comments because it's kind of the same as last time.
We're working on solving the sulfur deposition issues on the wells.
We weren't expecting to have that study or those conclusions really until kind of mid-year 2015.
And just to remind you no production in 2015.
That work would probably be done in 2016.
So really that study is still ongoing.
It's moving forward and may have a few different solutions.
So we're trying to sort out what we think the best one is.
So there wasn't really too much to report on that today I guess.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Mike Scialla from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
This is Ken Mike's associate.
Given what you guys have been seeing in Hastings do you think the series style flood will become the new design for all the fields in the Gulf Coast? Technical and Innovation</span></strong> I think it's very important to realize that it will be (33:10) a little bit different.
And so to say it's a design for all floods may be a bit extreme because you have to do what's economic and best for each field.
But when you look at the majority of the fields they do share the same characteristics.
And so that series flood is working in Hastings; also Oyster Bayou we've implemented.
And so we do envision that being the first option.
You'd probably have to have a good reason not do a series flood in other fields.
And there may be cases where that would be the case but we see broad application of that concept to most of our fields including fields like Conroe.
Okay.
And then sorry if I missed it but can you guys speak to the well you guys drilled in the Jackson Dome and how that impacts your future drilling over the area? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We drilled that well and unfortunately the reservoir was smaller than we expected.
And so we don't believe at this time we want to complete it or build a pipeline to it.
It doesn't really affect anything in the future because it was a separate fault and of course we have plenty of CO2 today with the savings and the utilization and so forth.
So we actually probably have bought anyway significant excess volumes based on the productivity capacity of Jackson Dome versus what we're using.
But it was a little disappointing.
Do you guys still see 15 to 20 drilling locations at the field? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes definitely.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
I apologize if I missed this but I was just curious if you had an update on the COO and Senior VP of Op search? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Nothing to announce.
We're working it we've been talking to candidates and so forth.
So historically we've said it's probably the second half of the year before that happens and I guess it's  it probably will still be the same message.
Thanks Phil.
Our next question will come from Gail Nicholson from KLR Group.
Good morning everyone.
Phil you talked about the blowdown of CO2 from the older fields and then taking it and putting it into newer fields.
I was wondering on the timing of that.
Is that something that will happen in the next 18 months or is that more a I guess three to five-year plan? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that's a good question.
And to be honest some of that depends on what oil price does.
If Little Creek is still economic to give you a specific example we'd probably keep producing oil but at some point production will decline.
And as the economics get close to breakeven then I think you probably convert to more of a blowdown mode.
We're actually working the engineering to determine the optimum rate and so forth.
So we're trying to do some of the details of how we do it.
With oil prices coming back up it actually helps us because Little Creek was kind of that breakeven mode when oil was  a few months ago when oil was in the upper $40s low $50s.
Okay.
And then from the standpoint of cost savings of blowing down CO2 and using that CO2 versus drilling at Jackson Dome well versus man-made sources.
Is the blowdown the cheapest source or is Jackson Dome still the cheapest source? Technical and Innovation</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd just add some more color to that is that the ideas and opportunities coming out of the IITs on these mature fields is just that is we're looking at how we maximize the value of these assets in the end game.
And some of our initial estimates it shows that the cost of blowing down that CO2 cleaning up and putting it back to system is actually lower than the costs it would take to deliver from Jackson Dome so you get  at a lower cost plus you get more volume.
So you recycle that CO2 essentially.
But there are several issues.
We see opportunities to reduce costs in these mature fields.
So to extent that we can really reduce costs and eke the last value out.
We can maybe extend the life of these fields if oil prices are in a reasonable range.
And then what's the right sequence and timing to go to things like WAG and the blowdown.
So that's a subject of a whole analysis and study.
These are some of the redevelopment plans I talked about as part of the IITs.
So this applies to Little Creek and several fields.
We really want to look ahead and see what's the best way to the endgame on these reservoirs to get the most value out.
Great.
Thank you so much.
And our next question comes from Dallas Post (38:20) from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I just wanted to get a feel that since you started to add hedges now that oil has valued a bit.
How do you think you'll be implementing incremental new hedges going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it's a sure way to make oil go up is just put some hedges in place.
So it's working.
We're trying kind of do this in kind of a layered fashion.
So we haven't gotten too aggressive.
But I think we'll just continue look at it and add a little bit from time to time and we'll probably average out kind of on the hedges.
The most recent ones we've been doing we did a few swaps initially.
Recently we've been doing more collars with  as Mark indicated floor of around $55 just to protect against any potential disaster and ceilings are now in the low $70s.
But most part those won't matter going forward unless and of course oil breaks one of those boundaries.
Right.
Thanks a lot.
And we do not have any more questions.
You may continue.
Before you go let me cover a few housekeeping items.
On the conference front Mark Allen will be giving a presentation at the UBS Oil &amp; Gas Conference in Austin and Phil will be presenting at the Sanford Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference in New York.
Both will occur at the end of May.
The details for both are available on our website and the webcast for Phil's presentation will be accessible through the Investor Relations section.
Lastly for your calendars we plan to report second quarter 2015 results on Wednesday August 5 and hold our conference call that day at our usual time of 10 AM Central.
Thanks again for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Denbury Resources Second Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
My name is Christina and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host today Ross Campbell Manager of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Christina and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me on the call from Denbury today are Phil Rykhoek our President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Brad Kerr our Senior Vice President Development Technical and Innovation.
Before we begin let me remind you that today's call will include forward-looking statements that are based on our best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in our corporate presentation our latest 10-K and today's news release all of which are posted on the website at denbury.com.
Also over the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of and disclosures on these measures are provided in today's news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Ross.
Welcome everybody to our second quarter call.
These are obviously interesting times with the recent pullback in oil prices.
But in spite of this drop Denbury is actually doing quite well.
We're improving operationally everyday and contrary to the opinions of some pundits we're actually in solid financial condition.
Our production generally remains on track to produce near the midpoint of our range for 2015 if you exclude the shortfall this quarter and next quarter related to the flooding at Thompson Field.
Our operating costs per barrel excluding nonrecurring items have dropped for the sixth consecutive quarter and are down approximately 25% from levels in late 2015.
Due to a recently completed workforce reduction we expect to see lower admin costs in the second half of the year as that reduction takes effect.
We expect to generate over $100 million of free cash flow at current prices this year.
That means that we're bringing in more cash from operations than we are spending in capital expenditures and dividends.
Our bank debt was reduced by $115 million between Q1 and Q2 largely as a result of free cash flow generated by our cost-saving initiatives.
And with the financial covenant relief we put in place last quarter we don't anticipate any issues with our bank debt in the foreseeable future.
As a matter of note our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is not until May of 2016.
Further we have significant liquidity on our bank line which Mark will cover in more detail later.
So while it is a tough macro environment we are doing quite well and becoming a stronger company each day as a result of our ongoing initiatives.
As you know we've been particularly focused on reducing our costs and improving operational efficiency the last couple of quarters.
Much of this was conducted with the help of innovation and improvement teams or IITs.
These are teams that report to senior management and were established to review internal processes reservoir surveillance flood design operational software and many other aspects of our operations.
Many of the ideas generated from these IITs have already borne fruit such as the continued reduction in the use of CO2 which is down 25% from the beginning of the year in the Gulf Coast.
Many other ideas will create value over the next couple of years as we diligently continue our pursuit of reducing costs and improving operational efficiencies and we move from an idea generation phase to an idea implementation phase.
We are taking these ideas evaluating them and preparing new field development plans for each of our primary fields.
These plans are scheduled to be completed over the next year and once completed will be incorporated into our long range plans.
While almost oilfield plans are still preliminary we're seeing positive results as we're finding ways to convert plans for future floods that were not economic in this price environment to ones with reasonable rates of return in spite of low oil prices.
These improved flood economics are primarily related to a few different things which Brad will cover in his discussion.
The long term implications and results of this ongoing process should have a very significant and positive impact on the company.
So with that introduction let's talk a little bit more about the quarter.
Total company production was in line with expectations and we reaffirmed our guidance of 72 500 BOE to 75 500 BOE for the year.
Tertiary production averaged just over 42 500 barrels a day an increase of 2% sequentially and up 4% year-over-year.
The strongest growth area on a sequential basis was at Hastings with many fields relatively flat during the quarter including production from our mature fields.
Overall production was down 640 barrels a day primarily due to the downtime at Thompson as a result of extensive flooding in that area.
At Hastings sequential production increased over 650 barrels a day to 5 350 with positive response from our series of floods that we've talked about before.
At Oyster Bayou production was over 5 900 barrels day up slightly from the Q1 rate.
The A-2 sand continue to respond favorably although we do believe that Oyster Bayou may have plateaued and will likely remain relatively flat or slightly decrease during the remainder of the year.
Heidelberg was just under 5 900 barrels a day down slightly as most expansion work was curtailed at this field pending a more detailed review of our development plan to ensure that our capital dollars are spent appropriately and effectively.
Tinsley production was 8 740 barrels a day around 200 barrels a day below Q1.
As we have guided on prior calls Tinsley may have peaked although a portion of the decrease is also due to the summer heat which lowers CO2 efficiency and highlights facility capacity limitations.
For our mature area tertiary properties production increased over 3% sequentially to 11 170 barrels a day reversing a prior 10% to 15% per annum decline.
The main contributor was favorable variant  to the favorable variance was Eucutta which had response from increased injections and Lockhart which had increased response from a new pattern.
Production at Thompson Field was down over 500 barrels a day from Q1 due to the previously mentioned flooding in the Houston area.
The field had to be shut in for all of June and is only recently back to its normal production levels.
This flooding will cause Q3 production to be about 200 barrels a day below forecast.
And we will also have some incremental LOE at this field to repair roads and equipment damaged by the flooding and this could potentially be a few million dollars.
Moving to the Rockies at CCA we recently completed our first multi-lateral well in Q2 at a 30% lower cost than drilling two lateral wells and this well tested at 560 barrels a day.
We're currently completing our second one drilling a third and have plans to drill and complete a total of five by year end.
These wells could be sufficient to offset most if not all of the declines of CCA.
Efforts to reduce failure rates have continued.
We're seeing the results of lower workover cost of CCA.
There have also been new initiatives implemented to optimize chemical usage and lower cost all of which are significant as this field is our single largest producer.
Bell Creek production was down slightly Q1 to Q2 as we initiated a way to optimize the oldest part of the flood in terms of 1 and 2.
We're also balancing the patterns in order to improve performance and expect a gradual production increase for the remainder of the year.
The horizontal wells we drilled last year performed well although production is currently on a gradual decline as evidenced by the slight decline this quarter in our other Rockies non-tertiary properties.
Looking at expenses our lease operating expenses excluding non-recurring items have decreased for the sixth consecutive quarter.
This quarter our LOE averaged 19.70 per BOE nearly 25% lower than the rate in late 2013.
These decreases are related to a decrease in workover cost lower CO2 expense resulting from a decrease in volumes and lower cost per Mcf and lower third-party contractor and vendor expenses.
Each dollar we save per BOE and LOE results in $27 million of additional cash flow which means that most if not all of our free cash flow this year has come from reduced operating cost.
While we would like to reduce these costs even further in the future it is becoming increasingly difficult to do so and we have increased our workover activity level at many of our fields which will further  make further decreases difficult.
As noted a significant portion of our reduced LOE cost is due to lower usage of CO2.
In the Gulf Coast region we produced about 680 million cubic feet a day from Jacksonville in this quarter a sequential quarterly reduction of 23%.
This reduction in Jacksonville in CO2 volumes is not only significant to current quarter operating costs but also has significant implications for our long-term future.
We believe that most of this reduction is sustainable and longer term we may use even less CO2 as we anticipate that we will start the WAG process which is water-alternating gas sooner in the life cycle of our flows than we have historically.
And that process also further reduces the use of CO2.
The reduced CO2 requirements also reduce the number of wells that would be required to drill out Jackson Dome and also reduce previously estimated future capital cost to expand CO2 pipeline capacity.
This has a significant implication for our future.
Our anthropogenic sources in the Gulf Coast remained relatively constant.
They produced at approximately 70 million cubic feet a day and our Rocky Mountain supplies were also relatively constant at just over 100 million cubic feet a day.
Bottom line we're encouraged by the results today but we are not done yet.
With our continued focus on operational efficiency we should continue to improve our business every day.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mark to give you financial details.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</strong> Thanks Phil.
My comments today will summarize some of the notable financial items in our news release primarily focusing on sequential changes from the first quarter.
I'll also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you in updating your financial models to reflect our current outlook.
We are pleased with our financial results for the quarter and particularly our cost reduction efforts in lease operating expenses and G&amp;A.
Our adjusted net income for the second quarter was $47 million or $0.13 per diluted share.
This was ahead of analysts' estimates and more than double our adjusted net income in the first quarter.
On a GAAP basis we had a net loss of $1.1 billion which reflects the full cost ceiling pool test write-down of $1.1 billion net of tax a fair value loss on our commodity derivatives and a tax valuation allowance for our financial deferred tax assets related to Louisiana net operating loss carryforwards.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $252 million up from $195 million in Q1 on higher prices and lower costs.
For the first six months of 2015 our adjusted cash flow has exceeded our incurred 2015 capital expenditures by $230 million positioning us well to generate significant free cash flow after capital expenditures and dividends in 2015.
Our Q2 realized oil price excluding hedges came in at just under $57 per barrel up 24% from Q1.
Including the $124 million of cash received on settlements from our hedges this quarter our per barrel realized price was a little over $76 compared to $69 in Q1.
Our realized oil price averaged $0.89 below NYMEX this quarter which was almost $2 better than our NYMEX differential in Q1.
This improvement was driven by strong LLS price differentials this quarter with our Gulf Coast tertiary price differential improving by $2.26 per barrel from last quarter.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential improved primarily above (13:01) selling at around $6.50 per barrel below NYMEX in Q2.
We currently expect our overall oil differential to be in the range of $2 to $4 per barrel below NYMEX in the third quarter of 2015 as prices  as LLS prices relative to WTI have weakened a bit thus far in Q3.
However our Rockies differential has improved a bit as of recent.
On the expense side we are continuing to show improvement on our cost structure.
Our LOE per BOE was $19.70 per barrel this quarter down from $21 in Q1 due primarily to lower CO2 utilization lower power costs and workovers.
G&amp;A expense was $38 million in Q2 in line with our expectations and down from $46 million in Q1.
As Phil mentioned we have recently had some workforce reductions which has contributed to our overall employee base decreasing roughly 10% to date.
In this current environment Denbury like many other companies is having to address the reality of lower oil prices.
The impact of this reduction on G&amp;A will be seen more in the second half of 2015.
For the second quarter $7 million of net G&amp;A was related to stock-based compensation.
For the  we expect the third quarter G&amp;A to be slightly down from Q2 with approximately $7 million to $9 million of that being stock-based compensation.
We recorded a full-cost full-ceiling test write-down of $1.7 billion in Q2.
As discussed on our last quarter call we expected a significant write-down this quarter as the full cost ceiling test calculation utilizes average prices over the last 12 months which has continued to decrease as the prior periods roll off.
Based on recent oil future prices we expect that we will continue to record material write-downs for the next two quarters as current prices would indicate that the average price for the last 12 months will continue to average down.
The impact of the Q2 write-down will likely reduce our ongoing DD&amp;A expense for Q3 by approximately $3 to $4 on a per BOE basis.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was down slightly from Q1 due primarily to slightly higher capitalized interest.
We currently expect capitalized interest to be approximately $5 million to $10 million per quarter for the remainder of 2015 depending on our qualifying activities.
Our effective income tax rate for Q2 was less than 36% slightly below our estimated statutory rate of 38% primarily due to the recognition of a valuation allowance of $30 million on our Louisiana net operating loss carryforwards.
For the remainder of 2015 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be around our statutory rate of 38% with current taxes being relatively minor.
Moving to our capital structure total long-term debt at June 30 was approximately $3.5 billion which was down $125 million from Q1.
We had $350 million drawn on our bank facility at June 30 and based on current prices and projections we anticipate ending the year with bank debt of between $250 million to $350 million which is down from $395 million at the end of 2014.
We will also plan to reduce our capital lease obligations by roughly $30 million.
We have over $1.2 billion available on our facility and we have $1 billion of cushion between the $1.6 billion we have asked the banks to commit and our $2.6 billion borrowing base.
Also as previously mentioned a few months ago we completed an amendment that restructures certain covenants under our credit facility in order to provide us more financial flexibility over the next several years and allow us to better manage the credit extended us by our banks.
And now I'll turn it over to Brad.
Technical and Innovation</strong> Thank you Mark.
We are pleased to report that we have now completed field reviews on all of our fields using the improvement and innovation team process.
As you recall this is a process where we use an integrated team of technical professionals to take a deep dive into each of our fields to challenge the existing assumptions look at the latest data and come up with ideas of how we can improve the value of that field.
This process has generated over 250 opportunities to improve the value and increase the profitability especially at low oil prices.
We have also reorganized our operations personnel in a manner that will improve efficiency accelerate the growth of technical excellence and focus our efforts on implementing these IIT opportunities.
We have created developed and designed an organization that is accountable to deliver optimized field development plans for both our existing and future CO2 floods.
We also have created a reservoir management organization that is reviewing reservoir performance and making improvements to flood parameters in existing fields to optimize profit growth.
Examples of flood parameters are CO2 injection distribution by pattern and profile modifications.
These organizations are very busy right now implementing all these IIT opportunities.
The positive impact of deploying the IIT opportunities are showing up in reducing our LOE per barrel in 2015 while maintaining production as Phil already discussed.
All these (18:31) opportunities will be contributing to improved business performance as early as 2016.
The improvements in future CO2 floods will contribute when these floods come on line.
As Phil and Mark talked about as a result of these field reviews we have reduced gross CO2 purchases by over 20% since last year while keeping production relatively flat.
We see further opportunities to reduce CO2 purchases especially through the use of  expanded use of WAG injection process.
WAG is water alternating gas.
The expanded use of WAG could not only reduce CO2 purchases but also could reduce the size of compression facilities required and reduce field operating costs.
We have already piloted WAG in several of our fields and had positive response.
Earlier this year we converted the Hastings Field fault blocks B and C in one pattern to fault block A to a series flood.
We have mentioned this in previous calls and we are pleased to announce the initial results of this conversion.
The results have been positive so far.
Production response occurred after three months which was earlier than expected and production has increased from approximately net 130 barrels per day to 900 barrels per day in the areas under a series flood.
These are early results and we will continue to monitor for long term performance.
We're in the process of evaluating improving profitability through the use of a series flood in other fields including the future flood at Webster Field the rest of Hastings Field Conroe and Heidelberg.
We are already using the series flood approach at Oyster Bayou which is one of the reasons that reservoir performance has been above expectations.
Besides WAG and a series approach there are several other types of opportunities from the IITs.
We will be explaining these as we implement them.
In the meantime I'd like to give you a flavor of the types of ideas we are pursuing to enable us to flood our fields at significantly lower costs.
We see opportunities to modify pattern spacing going to larger spacing given the good quality of the reservoirs in our portfolio.
We can reduce the size of compressors used to recycle the CO2 produced optimizing the internal rate of return on these investments.
We can reduce the pressure at which we operate these fields producing the power requirements for injection and the volumes that need to be injected to maintain the pressure.
We can design our injection distribution flow lines more efficiently thereby reducing back pressure and the power requirements on the compressors as well as the chemical cost to operate these flow lines.
We've also identified opportunities where we can locate the water curtain wells to be more efficient in maintaining pressures in the CO2 flooded areas.
We've also identified additional zones above and below the zones that are currently being flooded.
And we will expand the flood into these other zones leveraging the infrastructure that is already in place.
An example of reservoir management is in our Oyster Bayou where we've identified areas where we can optimize the flow of the CO2 through the reservoir which should increase sweep efficiency.
For example in Oyster Bayou we recently shut in two water injection wells and increased CO2 injection in one area of the field thereby causing the CO2 to flow differently in the reservoir and increasing production.
So far what we see is by implementing the opportunities that came from the IITs and with the new organizational structure we are confident we can be profitable in a low oil price environment with our existing fields and with the new projects we have planned.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Ross.
Thank you Brad.
That concludes management's prepared remarks.
Christina can you please open up the call for questions? Thank you.
And we'll first go to the line of Ryan Oatman with Cowen.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Ryan.
Quick housekeeping one for me to start off with Mark.
I think I may have missed your LOE guidance.
Can you restate that for me please? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Well we actually didn't give a number.
Phil discussed it in more detail in his comments and we're very pleased with where we are.
We potentially could see workovers being a little bit higher in Q3 based on some of the work we're doing right now.
But our goal here is to hold it flat or try to improve but we're not giving out specific targets right at this point.
So if you have any more comments on that Phil.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're very pleased with where it is and happy to come down a buck over the prior quarter.
I think it's interesting too I don't know if we really highlighted in the call the CO2 costs were actually down 30-some cents quarter-over-quarter and the cost per Mcf was actually up.
So it's not just an oil price thing or it's not just related to savings tied to the oil price.
It's really due to internal efforts and the hard work of our staff to really optimize the CO2.
So that being said it's harder to find continued cuts but we're still working it.
So as Mark said we do see workover activity going up a little bit so that potentially could cause expenses to go up a little but we'll keep working on the others and hopefully we can hold it flat.
Got you.
Got you so something kind of in the low 20s as opposed to kind of the mid-20s is maybe appropriate number to think about moving forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> For sure.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Obviously CO2 usage was down significantly that did drive a big portion of the beat here.
I'm wondering if you can speak to I guess first the Jackson Dome production down quarter-over-quarter.
How those wells decline over time obviously that's you guys managing for what the Tertiary business needs so I was wondering if you could kind of speak to maintenance capital spending there that asset and then the ability to sort of increase production there from Jackson Dome should you need to? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We have actually a lot of excess capacity at Jackson Dome.
So I don't want anybody to think production is down because the wells have depleted.
That's not true at all.
We probably have capacity of somewhere in the mid-9s (25:48) probably.
So probably 250 million a day (25:54) of extra capacity there.
The big plus as you pointed out is we don't have to drill additional wells to continue to develop capacity at Jackson Dome.
So we're not drilling any of the rest of this year and probably don't plan to drill any next year and we'll see after that.
And then if you go to our slide show we showed in  our needs (26:27) being close to 1 Bcf a day or 900 to 1 Bcf a day obviously we just produced 680 (26:26) this quarter.
So it's a dramatic cut.
And it will save us a lot money long term.
I was kind of trying to make that point in the prepared remarks but this isn't just a short-term benefit.
This really has a significant long-term benefit because it reduces cost at Jackson Dome and also capacity on the pipelines.
And potentially lets us go faster.
That's helpful.
And I guess that's kind of the last question that I'm trying to kind of understand here is looking out to 2016 you guys have mentioned the potential for production to be similar to this year's levels.
I was wondering if you can kind of speak to the capital that you see required there both in terms of capital spending and operating expenses in the form of CO2? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well we haven't done our 2016 budget yet.
We do see things getting better.
In fact just to refresh a little bit at the Analyst Meeting I think we said well to hold production flat we'd probably spend a little bit more in 2016 versus 2015.
And then kind of I think last quarter we said well maybe we can spend about the same and keep it flat.
So to be honest I don't know that we have a precise number because we haven't done a specific budget for 2016.
But in this price environment it probably will be difficult to spend the same amount of money.
I think we would probably want to spend within cash flow which means in 2016 we'll have to cut it back a little bit because we won't have as much benefit from our hedges.
So it will be a tough challenge to hold production flat.
It could slip a little bit.
But we're just not quite there yet and not quite sure where we're going to spend the dollars and what it's going to be on and what that looks like.
But we are very encouraged with our capital efficiency improvements over time.
Great.
That's it from me.
I'll hop back in the queue.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ryan.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Yes.
Good morning Phil and to the rest of your team there.
I'm wondering if you could talk a bit more about the series flood and the WAG floods and to what extent those have to be  to what extent those are kind of  once you figure them out in one field a template for the next field over or conversely if you have to start over from square one on each one of those fields as you tailor that new flood design.
Technical and Innovation</span></strong> I'd be happy to take that.
There's a lot of similarities between our fields and to a large extent once you learn how to do it in one field you can apply those same principles to the other filters; operational aspects to it there's reser (29:38) performance aspects to it.
So that's why our focus right now is on the Hastings and also from Oyster Bayou is really learning from that.
So we've done some initial work on the Webster Field to convert that to a series flood and that looks quite promising.
But we're not going to finalize that design until we get a little more information from Hastings.
And so we are  there is lessons from one flood to the next flood.
The good thing about the series flood is that the floods move quite quickly and so it isn't that you have to wait years to get your flood responses as you heard that we got the production response after just three months.
And so when you do a series flood you can process the reservoir fairly quickly and so we'll get those learnings and cascade those learnings on to these other fields fairly quickly.
But every field you want to do it to optimize to that field and that's the key for maximizing profitability.
Every field is a little bit different and so we can tweak the parameters about what's  do we use a 9 spot or a 5 spot (30:51) or what the reservoir pressure is.
So the development design team will be taking lessons from the previous floods but then optimizing it for that field.
And that's the key for really making the most money from every field that we have.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's helpful and then maybe broadening the scope a bit.
The impression I'm getting is that moving forward that the better utilization of CO2 is really the prize as far as reducing your cost.
But I wonder if you can tell me if that's the correct impression and maybe you could give an order of magnitude what the cost savings from that better CO2 utilization is versus or compared to just the more straight-up cost savings? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we would  yeah it had an immediate impact on the LOE per barrel.
So it's probably $1.50 if you go back in time a little bit in savings per barrel.
That's the part that we expensed and that of course is the immediate impact.
I think there's also big savings though potentially going to a WAG a little bit sooner and that sort of thing.
It not only could save on LOE but it could reduce some of the requirements for the size of our facility which of course saves capital dollars and so forth.
So there's potential savings not only on the LOE side but also on the capital side.
And then as I mentioned before wells at Jackson Dome saves on capital.
So it's trying to really maximize the use of CO2 and get the most benefit out of each molecule and focus on where it's going and we do that with 4D seismic and other techniques and the guys have really come up with some significant reductions.
Thank you Phil.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Yeah Phil.
Thank you for taking my questions this morning.
Just curious if you could provide an update on the COO search.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's ongoing.
We wish it would maybe have gone a little faster.
We've hit a dead end or so.
And so  but we're still working it.
So I think earlier in the year I said maybe it'd be third quarter so I guess I have two more months.
So we're still working it hard.
We did add a strong technical person as part of  a by-product of the search.
So we've gotten some I guess side benefits but we haven't found the senior executive we're looking for yet.
Great.
And my follow-up is you guys have done a good job on capital spending this year tracking below your guidance if we were to annualize your spend rate for the first half of the year for the full year.
Do you think you will essentially take those savings and if you come in underneath your guidance and apply that to the bank debt? Is that your thinking right now in this price environment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we  cash is cash.
Unless we come up with another pressing use it will go to the bank debt.
We've as mentioned reduced it $115 million quarter-to-quarter and we still expect to have free cash the rest of the year.
So the bank debt is always the swing.
We did do a small acquisition we talked about last time Martinville (34:50) but it showed up in the financial statements this quarter.
That was $20 million.
So there could be potential for some small deals which of course would use that free cash.
But barring other uses yes it will go to bank debt.
All right.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I'll jump back in queue.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Maybe just to piggyback on that last question just the cadence obviously for the CapEx is running pretty low.
Is there anything that you're seeing that is going to be a bigger spend in the second half or is it just more it's going to stay with the budget and let the year play out? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We are still staying with the $550 million budget.
So we haven't changed that.
There are a couple of things that may have a little higher spend.
For instance we're building the NGL plant at Delhi.
There wasn't a lot of spend in the first half.
There'll be some more significant ones in the second half.
And that is expected to be put into service actually next summer or next  probably second quarter 2016.
So we are having some general savings but we continue  we're just watching capital very close and we're kind of reallocating it as need be.
And so I think we'll still spend the $550 million but it may not be the same as the original $550 million.
We're fine to put it on projects that make sure we get positive rates of return and making money on everything we do.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And then just a lot of guys on the group have looked at their dividend or cut it or reduced it at least and obviously you guys have kept it at that level.
Could you just maybe comment on where your plans are there? It's obviously yielding a great number now which is good and bad.
But just going forward as you look even in I guess 2016 just the plans with the dividend.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's a tough one to answer too.
It's something we look at.
Every quarter it's a discussion we have with the board and so we'll just evaluate it I guess as we get closer which we just declared in the third quarter so we're keeping that intact.
I mean philosophically that base dividend is important to us and we're going to try to protect it but as we've said if we  the financial security and well-being of the company is more important so that would be a reason that we would potentially reduce it or cut it.
So I guess I really can't answer.
We're evaluating it every quarter and seeing what oil prices do and so forth.
And we'll just make that decision on time.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of Tarek Hamid with JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Sort of putting together some of the things that have been discussed before just maybe just talk about as you think about your business on sort of a half-cycle basis you kind of put some numbers around the cost savings you realized both on the OpEx side as well as sort of some of the capital projects you touched on in your prepared remarks.
Are we talking about sort of $10 better $15 better per barrel? What's the order of magnitude we should be thinking about in your minds? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well our  okay.
So LOE has come down over $6 just in the last year or 18 months.
I think our goal is to get $15 or $20 a barrel out of our costs in total.
So that means a lot of the rest of it has to come out of finding and development cost maybe a little bit of G&amp;A and some of the other categories.
F&amp;D is a little bit harder for us to demonstrate because it's not quite the same industry where we drill wells and we can point to immediate results.
But we are seeing better use of our capital and I think as we start some new floods hopefully maybe next year we'll be able to give better numbers.
But I believe we can easily take $5 to $10 a barrel out of F&amp;D from where it was in the last three years.
All right.
And then on the capital allocation front you paid down a decent amount of revolver during the quarter.
Any thought about sort of bond buybacks as an alternative for revolver pay-down? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it's something we always consider and I guess it's always depending on where the stock price is as you know on bond buybacks.
I thought you said stock buybacks.
I apologize.
Mark corrected me.
I'll answer a question you didn't ask.
How about that? Bond buybacks I think that's just hard to make a big dent in that.
And so I don't think we'd probably be too inclined to do that.
We kind of like having low bank debt because it's very secure and it's nice not to have to repay the bonds so in the first principle isn't due until 2021.
So that gives us very solid financial condition.
I don't think it'd be too likely although they are trading down.
But I think that probably won't be a likely scenario.
Okay.
Great.
And just one last one for me.
If you're looking to accelerate your capital spend in the next couple of years would you think about issuing structurally senior debt? You have obviously some relatively loose indentures that will allow that or are you comfortable with kind of the borrowing base as it stands and your bonds as your capital structure? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right now I think we're pretty well set.
I mean in this price environment obviously we're watching our debt very closely.
So as we work forward over the next few years we'll evaluate that relative to prices in our development plans but no plans at this point.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of Tim Rezvan of Sterne.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning folks.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I wanted to ask Phil relating to his prepared comments.
Is there any  did you give a tilt kind of to the low end of your production guidance range based on the Thompson issues I know you kept it.
Is that incorporated I guess in the range you gave for the year for production? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well yes.
Thompson wasn't big enough to throw us out of the range.
I guess what I was basically trying to say is we should still be near the midpoint if you adjust for the Thompson effect.
That was basically what the summary was.
So Thompson was probably 500 barrels a day actually a little bit more than that in Q2 and we said it's probably going to be a couple of hundred barrels a day to the impact of Q3.
So if you're looking to be at the midpoint you need to adjust for the impact of Thompson.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then back to the discussion on the WAG floods it's kind of the most color you've given on the topic in quite some time.
How pervasive is this kind of switch going to be? Is this just kind of like you're testing this and series floods at the same time and just thinking of maybe a new way to sort of develop the fields or is it going to be like a field-specific kind of  are there certain fields that wouldn't work or like how much of a game changer I guess is this additional usage? Technical and Innovation</span></strong> I think WAG is actually going to be a game changer for us.
When you look across the industry most fields are WAG-ed.
We have over the last two years been piloting WAGs in several of our fields like Mallalieu and the West Heidelberg.
And we had such low cost CO2 that WAG wasn't as high a priority.
Now in this lower oil price environment we discrete analysis we've done we see WAG being a key way that we can be reducing our CO2 requirements and also reducing our operating cost.
It cost a lot less money to inject water than CO2.
We see WAG flexibility in several of our fields and we're doing studies right now to rescreen all those fields.
And as we update the field development plans for every one of our fields that's one of the opportunities we're going to look at for every field.
And there are some fields that it will make sense for but there are several fields where it's looking like that will be a positive economic decision is to go to WAG.
So lots of space and I believe we'll get some real good results by converting some fields over to WAG.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate that detail.
And then is it safe to say that you talked about it being a positive economic decision is that kind of regardless of the oil price scenario or at a higher oil price does that thought change? Technical and Innovation</span></strong> It is regardless of the scenario.
It gets more positive as you go up to higher oil prices.
It is something when you put in the oil and (44:44) gas earlier.
So we had the plan to do it later but what we're seeing is we want to implement that earlier than we had in our current plans.
That allows you to be injecting less expensive fluid to do all that.
But it also allows you to not have as big gas recycle compressors and those compressors are an expensive capital item as well as an expensive item to operate and take a quite bit of power and maintenance.
And so WAG is something that's been a tried and true method and we're just going to leverage that to apply that to our fields.
But it is something that would be reducing capital cost operating cost for our fields and if we can reconvert them at this oil price we can make money.
When the oil prices go up then we just make more money.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> That sounds great.
Then I had one last one.
You have a very attractive hedge position through the first half of 2016.
We back of the envelope valued it at well over $300 million obviously a little higher today with oil rolling.
How do you think about maybe capturing the value at a trough oil price to maybe buy some security out later into 2016? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
We've looked at it.
We entered into a few more hedges after our call in the first quarter.
Prices dipped shortly after that so we've kind of pulled back.
We do look at different structures and ways to enhance our hedge position over time and we've done some of that in the past.
But we're just continuing to evaluate it in light of the current price environment and we're not necessarily trying to call prices.
We're looking for price certainty and cash flow certainty.
And so that's generally where we come back to but we do evaluate different optionality and structures.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for taking my question here guys.
The two questions I had was first with the lower CO2 needs here is there any chance that you guys would look at high-grading some of your fields down the road? Does that give you the flexibility to do that if you wanted to? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I'm not sure what you mean by high-grading but the...
Inc.</span></strong> Perhaps sell some of them? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sell some of them? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I doubt that we will sell any.
The hard part of selling EUR floods is  or future EUR floods is you've got to supply CO2 and to be honest we'd make more money doing it ourselves.
So I think that'd be the hurdle.
I think the thing it may allow us to do is potentially go a little bit faster in some of our floods or do one or two simultaneously.
Now we do have to get a little help from the oil price and be able to fund it and so forth.
But at least CO2 should not be as much of a limitation or a limiting factor as perhaps it was historically.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Great.
And the second question I had was just with the WAG floods I guess what's the performance difference? I thought most of these fields are already on waterflood for some time before you all picked them up.
I mean by switching it to a WAG how does that improve the recovery? Technical and Innovation</span></strong> So just in general what it does is it  sometimes it does improve it a little bit.
Sometimes it basically keeps it the same at a lower operating cost.
But when you put in the gas and then you follow with a cycle of water the gas is less dense and tends to rise; the water is more dense and tends to fall.
So basically when you put them back to back it tends to hold up the flood front easier and you get better performance a better vertical sweep.
And so for instance in one of our floods in Soso I believe we did a pilot and we actually saw an uptick in our recovery because it had a better vertical sweep efficiency because putting in the water helps keep the CO2 from rising up in the oil column and putting the gas keeps the water up.
So it just maintains that spud (49:27) flood more even across the reservoir and you get a more efficient sweep.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Technical and Innovation</span></strong> Little bit hard to explain that over the phone but hopefully that was clear enough.
Inc.</span></strong> No it is.
It's been years since I've kind of looked at that sort of stuff but that all makes sense.
So thanks again.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
Mark thanks for taking my questions.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> Curious just to ask more questions around this idea of since you're using CO2 more efficiently now the flexibility in perhaps going faster.
Would this be in existing fields where you have sort of new zones to bring online are there areas that currently that you're producing in that you feel like you're sort of underserving the field with injections or would these be (50:21)  because it sounds like you're not ready to do Webster until after you finished learnings from the series floods in Hastings.
So it doesn't sound like these would be any new floods in areas that you had previously moved out.
Is that correct? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean it's not probably a short-term benefit to go faster one because we want to look at Hastings.
We want to finish the good (50:46) development plan for Webster.
So Webster  we may start Webster next year but there's nothing that's going to happen on that this year.
But it does  if you go back to kind of the history one of our limiting factors in the pace that we could go in the Gulf Coast that limited the pace we could go was the CO2 supply and the pipeline capacity.
And we had it scheduled out.
We started a field every year or two and we kind of had it so we were maximizing the use of the infrastructure.
But I guess the only point I'm making is with using 20% or 25% less CO2 you could potentially go at a faster rate.
Like I said we need cash flow or funding to do that but it reduces that bottleneck or potential bottleneck that we had historically.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
I understand now.
And then on the M&amp;A front you guys picked up the Mandeville (51:55) field I guess it hit numbers second quarter.
We've seen historically a lot of dots along the Gulf Coast there.
It seems like the bid-ask spread has been historically high just given the nature of the parties that own those fields.
Are you starting to see that narrow in this downturn and are the prices getting compelling enough where you could be buying cheap cash flows or is that more of like a pipe dream these days? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we haven't seen too many bargains yet.
We feel like we've got Mandeville (52:28) at a pretty good price.
I mean it basically was just buying the existing production which is pretty marginal I mean minor which is why it wasn't a very expensive field.
So we think we picked that one up at a reasonable price.
Some other ones we've looked at we've been a little surprised at some of the prices people are paying but I guess we'll just have to take one at a time.
I mean there's more talk of course that there'll be more stressed companies; this fall the banks re-determine their borrowing bases and so forth.
So we'll see what comes out of that.
Maybe there'll be some fields we can get.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And just the last one for me.
I just want to make sure on the timing with Webster.
When do you feel like you would have the design  enough information out of Hastings to put together the series flood design at Webster? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the internal schedule is to have the plan by second quarter of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks guys.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
We'll go to the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Sorry about that.
I think most of my questions have been asked.
One final one Phil or Mark.
What do you expect your non-EOR spending could be next year say in a $50 $55 oil environment? I know we've talked about EOR spending.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we haven't gotten there yet but probably the area we're spending the most is the CCA.
We're drilling five wells and some other work.
And the aggregate probably ends up to maybe $100 million of spend toward non-tertiary across the company the bulk of that being at CCA.
There's a lot of other potential at CCA so that number may be a similar ratio I guess to the total in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Still kind of preliminary.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thanks.
That's all I had.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And we'll go back to the line of Ryan Oatman with Cowen.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
My questions have been answered.
Thank you.
Seeing no additional questions  well I had just had one pop in.
Sorry.
Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> In your comments about the mature properties and just the overall plan to try to keep production flat going forward I was looking into 2016 as far as sort of the most bang for the buck is it in mature fields that you might have the best chance of getting some boost to help keep production steady or would it be in the still growing fields like looking into next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Probably.
I mean probably the fields that are growing you get the best bang for the buck because you're expanding an existing flood without having to maybe make a proportional expansion of the infrastructure.
Most of the spend in mature floods is pretty minor and it really relates to conformance modifications or doing things to improve the sweep which as Brad pointed out now we have a group that's solely focused on reservoir management surveillance.
And so they'll be watching for that.
But that usually it doesn't turn out to be very big dollars but it can help you get the recoveries you expected and help with your production but they're usually minor dollars.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And I'm sorry if I missed this but as far as the workover activity that you see going forward do you expect that to be relatively steady or more lumpy and I'm just wondering have you evaluated maybe what the rate of return looks like on some of the workovers you're doing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're definitely looking at the rate of return and we've had a big effort in continuing to do root cause analysis and reduce the number of failures and so forth.
And that's been a big contributor to the reduction in workover cost.
However you can't reduce that to zero.
When you do you do have work that's required.
So we just  we're watching kind of the workover rig rate and so forth and therefore know that there's going to be a little bit of an uptick in Q3.
But we're continuing to watch failures and if it's a marginal well and if it's not worth fixing or completing or working over we don't do it.
So we do continue to look at rate of return and make sure it's economic.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And about the I guess the overall CO2 cost outlook I heard you talking about implementing WAGs.
One of the benefits is that it can help reduce the size of the facility that you need.
I just wonder.
Is there any trade-off in terms of picking up neighboring fields I mean down the road? I mean are there advantages to maybe designing a little bit data with some excess as far as bolt-ons down the road? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well most fields aren't close enough to share facilities.
The one we're still debating I guess because we just purchased it was Martinville and could we share the Hastings facility and use that same facility for Martinville which is only about five miles away.
But in most cases our fields aren't that close together to share facilities.
We have talked about making them a little more modular so we can move them a little easier but of course that's way down the road and the present value of that is probably not real high but it does help you long term on your total capital cost.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
I'm seeing no additional questions in queue at this time.
Mr.
Campbell you may continue.
Thank you.
Before we go let me cover a few housekeeping items.
On the conference front Phil will be giving a presentation at Enercom in Denver on August 18 and then at Barclays Conference on September 9.
The webcast for both presentations will be accessible through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Lastly for your calendars we plan to hold our conference call to report third quarter 2015 results on Thursday November 5 at our usually scheduled time of 10 AM Central.
Thank you for joining us on today's call.
We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12:30 PM Central today through midnight Saturday September 9 2015.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and referencing the access code 324018.
For international participants you may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code 324018.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all telephone participants will be in a listen-only or a muted mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder the conference is being recorded.
And I'll now turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Ross Campbell Manager of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laurie and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me on the call today I have Phil Rykhoek our Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Chief Financial Officer; and Chris Kendall our Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin I want to let you know that we have a few slides which will be accompanying today's discussion.
For those that are not accessing the call via the webcast these slides may be found at www.denbury.com's homepage.
Please click on the Quarterly Earnings Center link underneath resources.
I would also like to remind you that today's call will include cautionary statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on cautionary statements and the risk factors associated with our business in this presentation our latest 10-Q and today's news release all of which are posted to our website at www.denbury.com.
Also please note that during the course of today's call we will be referencing certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliation of and disclosures relative to these measures are provided on today's news release as well as on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Ross.
First off I'd like to welcome to Chris to today's call.
It's great to have him on Board.
He is studying up to speed having been here less than two months but he's hit the ground running and I am receiving a great deal positive feedback and know he is already making a difference at Denbury.
Chris will be covering our operational review today following my overview and Mark's review of our finances.
While the macro environment is still challenging I'm very encouraged with the progress we're making here at Denbury.
Late last year we prioritized and committed to initiatives to optimize our business and lower our cost and we have made significant progress in doing so.
We initiated this pursuit by utilizing innovation and improvement teams comprised of selected individuals to review in detail various aspects of our business and to identify ideas and options to lower our cost optimize our business and create value.
We completed this initial review several months ago and we are now evaluating the ideas and options generated in preparing updated and optimized to our development plans.
While this systematic field by field review will take another year or so to complete we believe this downturn in oil prices and corresponding slowdown in our activity makes this a perfect time to perform such a review.
As this process has progressed you have seen incremental improvements in the form of continual reduction in cost including reductions in the use of CO2 and you should expect to see the longer-term benefits in the future of increased rates of return less capital per barrel and improved value creation.
I would note that this process may not necessarily result in higher productions rates particularly with regard to an individual field as our focus is on value creation not production.
Consistent with that theme Chris will show you an illustration where production decreased slightly at one field but operating cash flow went up; a trade we will make every time.
I'm not sure you will see that trade on a regular basis throughout our industry.
Incidentally the illustrated decrease in production that he will show you is not part of the 1 100 BOEs a day estimate of uneconomic production.
Before moving on to a little detail you might want to look at the high-level interim progress.
Including with respect to cost reductions because it's very apparent when looking at the big picture.
As an example our adjusted cash flow from operations only decreased $9 million this quarter as compared to last quarter even though the combined revenues and commodity settlements decreased by $37 million.
The difference of course is due to cost savings.
If you move to slide five you will see that we have reduced LOE cost per barrel 20% year-over-year resulting in a recurring LOE of $19.43 in the most recent quarter.
This is the seventh consecutive quarterly drop in recurring LOE.
Further you can see that G&amp;A per BOE has also been reduced by 16% year-over-year with most of these savings occurring this quarter with a sequential decline of 11% on a per BOE basis from Q2 largely related to a reduction in personnel cost.
Although it is difficult to measure refining and development costs in this environment with the significant price reductions causing reserve adjustments I am very confident we've made significant progress in this area also as partially evidenced by our underspend in capital this year.
If you move to slide six you will see that we have reduced our 2015 development capital estimate that we did reduce by $50 million a couple of months ago.
And that was partially offset by a $20 million increase in estimated capitalized interest but that resulted in a revised all in total of $520 million.
Today we lowered it an additional $45 million to a reduced 2015 capital forecast to $475 million and that equates to a 20% reduction overall in our development spend.
In spite of the $95 million reduction in development capital expenditures our 2015 production is remaining relatively flat if you adjust for the barrels we have shut in due to economics or weather-related downturn.
We still expect to end the year in the lower part of our initial guidance range for 2015 as we anticipate that our Q4 production will be higher than Q3.
If you move on to slide seven our cost savings in both capital and expenses have allowed us to generated $321 million of free cash flow in the first nine months of 2015.
Quite an accomplishment considering that oil prices have generally slipped and remain low.
When I say free cash flow I'm comparing our 2015 incurred capital expenditures and our dividends with our year-to-date cash flow from operations.
When you make that calculation you have $321 million left over.
Obviously this wouldn't have been possible without our hedges but this number would have been a lot less without our significant cost reductions.
We have used most of the free cash flow to reduce our obligations including a $215 million reduction in total debt and most of the rest went to settle accrued capital expenditures that existed at year end 2014.
Our bank debt at the end of September was only $210 million down from $395 million at year end 2014.
This considerably improves our financial flexibility and ability to weather this downturn and further provides additional liquidity as our bank line currently has a total commitment of $1.6 billion and an even larger $2.6 billion borrowing base.
I think it's important to note that we have reduced the risk related to our balance sheet and have done so in a tough macro environment.
We have also periodically repurchased shares during the last two months buying another 1% or so of our outstanding shares.
We view these repurchases as highly accretive and impactful to us long-term as it doesn't take a lot of money to acquire a significant percentage of the company.
We may continue to buy from time to time depending of course on the stock price oil price and our available cash.
We want to fund any such repurchases with cash flow from operations or perhaps said another way we do not want our bank debt to increase above its prior year end 2014 level.
Of course we are also subject to the overall stock repurchase limit that has been authorized by the board.
We are very conscious and focused on adding value in everything that we do and that of course also includes stock repurchases.
While we continue to look for additional assets to acquire we also continue to be frugal with our cash and generally are looking for fields that can be purchased with limited funds but fields that could be flooded with CO2 in the future.
We announced the Martinville (9:01) acquisition earlier this year and we have a couple of other similar type deals that we are evaluating.
These fields would likely not be impactful near-term but would expand our inventory and provide positive returns in the future.
Again everything we're doing is geared to make us a stronger and better company that will be ready and poised to deliver consistent and improved results as oil prices recover.
Since Chris is here I'm not going to go into the current operational items however let me touch briefly on 2016.
We are still working on our capital budget and therefore do not have specific guidance for you at this time but I can give you a little color.
We expect to spend at or near our operating cash flow and I think that's the part of the key point of this message which based on today's strip pricing is expected to be between $300 million or $350 million.
As such our total 2016 capital budget is likely to be reduced from our adjusted 2015 estimate of $475 million.
As we continue to be more efficient on our capital spend I think we can do a lot with these limited funds but it is doubtful that we could hold production flat.
As a comparison it appears that our exit rate in 2015 will be about 2% less adjusting for the uneconomic shut-ins than it was in 2014 with an estimated capital expenditure of $475 million.
As such I'm confident that a reduced spend of $350 million will result in overall declines that are in the single digit percentage range.
But until we get our capital funds allocated and our forecast updated I won't be able to give you a more precise production estimate.
But the reductions in capital for this year and next year without a material fall off in production should illustrate the strength of our production profile strategy.
We likely won't announce our maybe more precise 2016 guidance until after the first of the year perhaps as late as our year-end earnings call released in February.
And please note of course that these numbers could change somewhat as we adjust to a constantly evolving and moving macro environment.
A quick note on the personnel front in addition to adding Chris we've also enhanced our technical staff by adding a Chief Scientist a few months ago and we've also added several other highly experienced technical people that were available at least in part due to the macro environment.
So in summary a lot of positive things happening at Denbury.
Our business is improving and our future is looking good.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Mark to give you financial details.
Mark? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</strong> Thanks Phil.
My comments today will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release where I'll primarily be focusing on the sequential changes from the second quarter.
I will also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you in updating your financial models to reflect our current outlook.
As shown on slide nine our non-GAAP adjusted net income for the third quarter was $63 million or $0.18 per diluted share.
This is better than analyst estimates and largely due to our continued cost reduction efforts and lower DD&amp;A expense this quarter.
As you can see in our GAAP reconciliation we have a couple of significant write-downs this quarter.
First we recorded a $1.8 billion pre-tax ceiling test impairment as the trailing 12-month oil price continued to trend down during the quarter.
As you may or may not know companies such as Denbury that follow full cost accounting for oil and gas properties have a different impairment test than successful efforts companies.
Full cost companies are required to use the average first day of the month price for the trailing 12-months when comparing the PV-10 Value of the reserves against the book basis of the oil and gas properties.
We have also noted that many of the full cost companies have taken similar or much more significant write-offs in this quarter.
Based on recent oil price levels we expect that we could record a similar write-downs in Q4 as current prices would indicate that the average price for the last 12 months will continue to average down.
The second significant write-down was a full impairment of our $1.3 billion of goodwill most of which related to the merger with Encore in 2010.
The write-off occurred at this time due primarily to the significant drop in the market value of our equity and debt from June 30 to September 30 relative to the drop in oil prices.
On a GAAP basis you can see that primarily due to these write-downs we had a net loss of $2.2 billion for the quarter.
Turning to slide 10 our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $243 million for Q3 down only $9 million from the second quarter as cost savings offset a $37 million drop in our combined revenues and hedged settlements.
Our Q3 average realized oil price excluding hedges declined to approximately $46 per barrel down 20% from Q2.
We recognized $161 million in cash received on settlements from our hedges this quarter which made our average per barrel realized price including these hedges a little over $71 per barrel compared to a little over $76 per barrel last quarter.
Slide 11 provides a summary of our realized oil price differentials relative to NYMEX oil prices.
Our overall realized oil price averaged $0.96 below NYMEX in Q3 down slightly from $0.89 per barrel below NYMEX last quarter.
Although the overall change in our net differential was not that significant from quarter-to-quarter we did see some change in differentials across our production areas.
Oil differentials for our Gulf Coast Tertiary production which primarily receives a LLS pricing averaged about $1 per barrel above NYMEX prices this quarter down from $2 above NYMEX prices last quarter.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential improved by almost $2 per barrel selling at around $4.50 per barrel below NYMEX in Q3.
Thus far in the fourth quarter we have continued to see some strengthening in our Rocky's differential but we have also seen some weakening in our LLS pricing.
As such we currently expect our overall oil differential to be in the range of $1 to $3 per barrel below NYMEX prices in the froth quarter of 2015.
Moving to slide 12 let me review some of our expense line items.
First normalized lease operating expense came in better than we expected averaging $19.43 per BOE in the third quarter which is down from $19.70 per BOE in the second quarter.
The current quarter normalized amount excludes $14 million of reimbursements recognized during the quarter comprised of retroactive utility rate adjustment and an insurance reimbursement for previous well-controlled costs.
Including these reimbursements our total lease operating expense during the third quarter averaged $17.34 per BOE.
Chris will go into more details on our LOE in a few minutes but for Q4 we currently expect LOE to remain around $20 per BOE.
G&amp;A expense was roughly $33 million in Q3 this was below  this was on the lower end of our expectations as the cost has continued to come down due in part to workforce reductions and continued focus on reducing expenses.
For the third quarter $7 million of net G&amp;A was related to stock-based compensation.
In the fourth quarter we expect G&amp;A expense to be slightly lower than Q3 with approximately $7 million to $9 million of this amount being stock-based compensation.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was down slightly from Q2 at $39 million.
Capitalized interest was roughly $8 million in both quarters.
We currently expect capitalized interest to be approximately $5 million to $10 million in Q4 depending on qualifying activities.
Our DD&amp;A expense was lower this quarter due primarily to the full cost ceiling impairments recorded in the first half of 2015.
With the additional impairment recorded this quarter we expect that our DD&amp;A expense will likely be $3 to $4 per BOE lower in Q4.
Our effective income tax rate for Q3 was approximately 25% well below our estimated statutory rate of 38%.
This is primarily due to the full impairment of goodwill during the quarter as a significant portion of that goodwill had no tax basis.
For the fourth quarter we anticipate our effective tax rate will be close to our statutory rate with current taxes being relatively minor.
On slide 13 we have a summary of our commodity hedges.
We did not enter into any new hedges in Q3 but as you can see we have about 50% of our oil production hedged to the second quarter of next year with our downside hedged prices trending lower in the second quarter of 2016.
Onto slide 14  slide 14 provides a summary of our liquidity and long-term debt maturities.
At September 30 our total debt was approximately $3.3 billion which was down $215 million from year-end 2014 and we had $210 million drawn on our bank debt at quarter end down $185 million from last year end.
Based on current prices and projections we anticipate ending the year with bank debt of approximately $150 million to $200 million.
We currently have around $1.4 billion available on our bank facility and as you can see we have additional cushion between what we have asked the banks to commit to and our current borrowing base of $2.6 billion.
At current 2016 strip prices of around $50 per barrel and based on our best projections at this time we expect that we should be in compliance with our bank covenants through 2016.
Recall that earlier this year we modified our debt covenants beginning in 2016 with a primary change being the replacement of a total debt-to-EBITDAX covenant with a secured debt to EBITDAX covenant going out through 2017.
The next redetermination of our credit facility is expected to be next May as we are on an annual cycle.
And now I'll turn it over to Chris for an update on operations.
Thank you Mark.
I feel fortunate to have joined Denbury at this very challenging time in the industry yet at a time it makes Denbury's unique business model standout.
Having spent the past two months with the operations teams my observation is that we have strong technical and operational capabilities high quality long lived assets and a strong strategy that will lead to long-term success.
Regarding our overall results for the quarter I am very pleased by our sustained improvement in CO2 usage and lease operating expense both of which we reached multiyear lows for the quarter.
In addition we fully restored production at Thompson after the flooding that we mentioned in the second quarter call.
And we reached record quarterly tertiary production levels at Bell Creek.
Starting with production on slide 16.
Overall company production was 71 410 BOE per day for the third quarter 3% lower than our production on those on both a sequential quarter basis as well as the third quarter of 2014.
And as Bill mentioned we had about 1 100 BOE per day shut-in for economics.
Looking in more detail at our tertiary fields production during the third quarter was 40 834 barrels per day a decrease of 4% or 750 barrels per day on a sequential quarter basis and 2% or just under 800 barrels per day from third quarter 2014.
Aside from the production shut-in for economics the main drivers in sequential changes were a reduction at Hastings that I'll discuss later and a temporary reduction in production at Tinsley to correct facility processing constraints partially offset by record tertiary production at our Bell Creek field.
The facility processing constraints at Tinsley have since been corrected and production there is now recovering to expected levels.
At Bell Creek we reached 2 225 barrels per day an increase of nearly 350 barrels per day or 18% over the second quarter as we continue ramping up Phase III of the flood and implementing a WAG in the first phase and second phases.
Beyond that we're continuing the development of Bell Creek with Phase IV expected to begin injection later this quarter.
Non-tertiary oil equivalent production was down 2% or about 550 barrels per day on a sequential quarter basis and 5% or just over 1 600 barrels per day from third quarter 2014 levels.
The production shut-in for economics and natural production declines drove the main reductions both comparative to the second quarter of 2015 and to the third quarter of 2014 while the restored production after the flooding at Thompson added about 300 barrels per day compared to the second quarter.
Adding some color to the production shut in due to economics these are wells that at today's prices are either uneconomic to operate or that require repairs that are not economic.
Phil mentioned that we have about 1 100 BOE per day shut-in for economics and this is split between about 200 BOE of tertiary production and 900 BOE of non-tertiary production.
Our current assumption is that this continues until oil prices improve.
Of course we continually evaluate the economic thresholds on all of our wells and can put production back on line if justified.
And just to clarify I say suspended because when prices eventually return to needed levels it will require minimal time to bring that production back on line.
As Phil made clear earlier we are focused on making value based operation decisions rather than just driving production growth.
A good example of this is our Hastings Field that I mentioned earlier.
As shown on slide 17 we determined that we can significantly reduce daily CO2 purchases in Fault Block A by optimizing injection rates and using water instead of CO2 in certain cases.
As a result we were able to cut CO purchase volumes in half resulting in a small production impact of about 250 barrels per day but the overall change resulted in an expected $10 million increase in cash flow in 2015.
LOE continued to trend down for the seventh consecutive quarter.
Absolute LOE for the third quarter was $128 million after adjusting for $14 million in non-recurring utility and insurance credit.
This is a 3% decrease from the prior quarter and an 18% decrease from the third quarter of 2014.
On a per barrel basis adjusted LOE was $19.43 per barrel 1% below the prior quarter and 20% below the third quarter of 2014.
The biggest drivers of this decrease are reduced workover expense and lower CO2 costs which I'll discuss in more detail in a moment.
I'd also like to point out that the small uptick in power and fuel from the second quarter was driven by a non-recurring credit that we received in the second quarter.
And for the fourth quarter we expect LOE to remain around $20 per BOE.
I mentioned that we've driven sustained improvement in our CO2 efficiency.
This year we've reduced our total company injection volumes from 979 million cubic feet per day in the first quarter to 678 million cubic feet per day in the third quarter representing a 31% reduction from the first quarter.
I will get into that in a bit more detail on the next slide but this is an impressive accomplishment especially as production has been held relatively flat or in the Hastings case we've traded some temporary production shortfalls for improved overall cash flow.
The graph on the right breaks down the composition of our CO2 costs.
I want to show it to highlight the cost impact of managing CO2 volumes.
We've seen some benefit from lower direct pricing of CO2 but the lion's share of the savings since the first quarter nearly $0.77 per BOE has been accomplished by reducing volumes.
Beyond costs increasing our efficiency with Gulf Coast CO2 extends the life of our strategic low cost Jackson Dome asset.
The chart on this slide looks at our prior projection of long-term CO2 supply and demand in the Gulf Coast which as you see in yellow has now been reduced to less than 600 million cubic feet per day versus our prior expectation shown in red of nearly 1 billion cubic feet per day.
This improvement has multiple implications not just reducing the cost of producing oil but also reducing the capital required to manage Jackson Dome as well as opening up additional CO2 flood opportunities.
Our development design teams are incorporating the learnings that have reduced our use of CO2 into their field development plans and I expect that we will be revising our projections for CO2 demand as those plans come together.
We intend to continue to use both natural and industrial sources of CO2.
Our industrial sources have remained relatively constant during the third quarter of 2015 delivering about $60 million a day in the Gulf Coast and just under $40 million a day in the Rocky Mountain region.
Looking forward our teams continue to focus on taking advantage of the current business environment as an opportunity to improve every aspect of our operations from working through field development plans for each of our fields to optimizing our current fields and operations to improving our underlying operations and project management processes.
All of this will position Denbury to not only succeed in the current environment but in the future as well.
And now I'll turn it back over to Ross.
Thank you Chris.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Laurie can you please open it up for questions.
Yes.
Our first question is from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Phil if oil prices recover in the second half of 2016 how quickly can your capital program and your production respond to these higher prices? And then also what oil price is necessary to bring that suspended or curtailed production back online? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we I mean I think we can adjust our spending relatively quickly probably not instantly but maybe if you give us a few months lead time.
But it depends on what the expenditure is what the production response will be.
Obviously if it's initiating a new part of a flood or starting a new flood there's going to be a delay in that production response.
If it's drilling a well or repairing some of these uneconomic wells that response will be very quick almost instant.
So I think it depends on what we do and where we'd allocate the money.
As to the uneconomic wells I'd say most of them probably need to be at least in the mid-$60s per barrel but again that does vary some may require $70s per barrel and that probably varies a little bit depending on what the situation is.
Thank you for that and then in your prepared remarks you mentioned the possibility of some acquisitions.
Why would you feel the need to do further acquisitions? It seems like you have plenty of inventory to flood with CO2 right now especially with the flooding schedules on some of these projects pushed out and to the right with these lower oil prices and lower cash flows? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well again I believe as I mentioned we're looking for ones that don't require a lot of capital to buy them so it's not like we have a big carrying cost I guess.
And they provide additional flexibility for us in the future and we are optimistic of course that oil prices will recover and that we can resume our growth.
And so having more inventory that we can pick up at these distressed prices it seems like a good thing to us particularly when you're not tying up a lot of capital with purchasing.
Good.
And then  the one last one from me what's the latest from Riley Ridge? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Not a lot new at Riley Ridge.
We've been working on a solution to solve the software deposition.
They believe they fixed the issues that were related to the plant.
So we're  we had two or three options on that.
We're still kind of fine tuning the cost and so forth.
The hard part today is as you probably noticed gas prices have gone down went to the low $2s.
And so I think it -- looking forward we have to consider the economics and what it costs to implement these changes.
We're not quite ready to go yet but we're  I think we're zeroing in on a solution but the natural gas market probably hasn't helped us with regard to that.
Keep in mind that with regard to Denbury that really the CO2 that would come off of that plant really isn't needed until we published our CCA which is probably at least five years off.
Great.
Thanks so much for that Phil.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning everyone there.
I'm wondering -- I know this is a theme that we've touched on certainly last quarter and awhile and previously but I want to go back to the idea -- to the question of how durable these reductions in LOE are? And I think you gave part of the answer in saying that most of your shut-in volumes are actually not tertiary volumes.
But presumably if some of those are tertiary volumes of the 200 barrels a day when you try to bring those on your LOEs are going to go back up.
And I'm wondering if you could just talk about the longer term  your longer term view on how durable the savings are and if there is any unknowns that you're trying to keep track of on maybe what the long-term effect of reduced CO2 injections on fuel productivity is? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well.
So I'll start with the last part of the question.
We're definitely watching the impact on production and any effect that using less CO2 would have and of course as Chris showed you a chart showing that in monitoring that we did note that the production at Hastings dropped a little bit although again it was still a positive impact on cash flow.
So that's a trade we would make.
We're looking at that we're seeing if maybe  if we increase just a little bit of injections can we get the production back.
So it's not a real precise science in some cases and we have to do a little bit of experimentation but I think if you look at our LOE it's really two categories.
CO2 costs have come down substantially and workover costs have come down substantially.
We feel confident that we can keep the CO2 usage down don't know if it will stay exactly where it is but I think we are making a concerted effort to maximize every molecule of CO2 and we can continue to do that and we are seeing minimal impact on production.
So we feel pretty confident that we can do that.
Obviously as price  oil prices go back up the costs per Mcf goes up a little bit but as Chris pointed out in his slide most of the savings have come from lower usage not from oil prices.
Workover expense if you do put these uneconomic wells back on and you spend a little bit more money you will see a little bit of an uptick in workover expense.
I don't think it will be  go back to the old levels.
For one we're very focused on solving what's causing the workovers and reducing them and looking for the root cause analysis and so forth.
So we're very conscious of what we spend.
But then I think if prices did increase I think you probably would see workover expense pickup a little bit.
Got it.
That's helpful color Phil.
And maybe a simpler question.
What's the story with the production uptick at Oyster Bayou and Bell Creek? It sounds like that's just part of the  your typical tertiary ramp but I thought I'd test that idea and see if there is maybe some other aspects of the quarter-over-quarter production bump for those two fields? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean Bell Creek is just we continue to expand Bell Creek and so it's really for the most part related to continued development.
In fact as I believe as Chris mentioned we're continuing that and we plan to start injecting in Phase IV any time.
Also if you look at our capital expenditures Bell Creek is one where we've actually continued to spend money in 2015 and we really haven't reduced the budget there really at all to speak of.
That one stayed pretty whole.
So Bell Creek is I guess if you summarize it is really kind of related to continued development now.
We're looking at Phase I and II and we've implemented a WAG and obviously we're very focused on conformance and so forth and so on and that is helping.
But I think that's the short answer.
Oyster Bayou production is up a little bit.
I think we've seen good positive results from the A-2 Sand maybe it was a little bit better than we had originally forecasted.
But to manage expectations Oyster Bayou is largely  it is basically fully developed.
So I wouldn't expect that to continue to grow but obviously again we're trying to maximize our conformance.
We've  just go to 40 000 feet we've put a significant emphasis and effort on reservoir management and surveillance.
And I think you're seeing some of those results in some of the production levels staying at the current level a little bit longer and so forth.
In fact if you look at the mature properties if you noticed we're really keeping that pretty flat in 2015 even though we normally would have a 10% decline.
So I think it's back to kind of the nitty-gritty engineering reservoir management.
But I think you're seeing positive impacts.
That's great detail.
Thanks Phil.
We have a question from the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee CRT.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
Thank you for taking my question.
First if it was in the release I missed it.
But can you just repeat the repurchase numbers? You said it was 1% of shares outstanding? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> I think we've done about 4.4 million incremental shares.
Great great.
And then I guess this is for Phil or Chris.
In prepared comments I know Phil mentioned if I heard correctly it will take about another year to kind of finish your field by field review.
Should we take that as kind of there is potentially more low hanging fruit that you can kind of clean up as you think about the improving efficiencies? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think there is yes although I think a lot of that will show up more in long-term capital and long-term improved returns and not so much in LOE.
So we are working through the development plans on every field.
We're part way through that but we have another year.
But I think this will show up more in improved results overtime.
I don't want to mislead you and think that there is a lot of additional low hanging fruit in LOE.
We are continuing to work it but that's kind of a separate process.
Okay.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
And we have a question from the line of David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning Phil and Mark.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you guys comment at all I understand that the share buybacks here I guess there is is it fair to think that this window to make share buybacks is basically within the fourth quarter here.
Because as you go into 2016 you will effectively be running a free cash neutral program and you're not going to take on incremental leverage to buy back shares.
Or would you be willing to take on leverage to buy back shares? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it would be possible depending on the oil price et cetera I guess what I was trying to say we are trying fund it with excess free cash flow but we generated a little bit of excess free cash flow and reduced the leverage in 2015.
The bank debt I think I made the comment that we would not want the bank debt to go above year-end 2014 levels but of course we're going to end up the year somewhere probably north of $200 million below.
So I guess the way we kind of look at is we probably have a little bit of free cash flow set aside that we would consider.
But it has to be a really good opportunity and obviously we are very conscious of managing our cash and being very prudent with our cash.
Inc.</span></strong> True.
And I guess if you were to think of all else equal having free cash right now available is share buybacks more attractive to you than repurchasing your debt? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good answer yes.
If you look at the impact that $50 million $100 million what it pick whatever number you want but if you look at the impact that it can have on the long-term aspects of the company.
You can make a significant dent in the outstanding shares for a little bit of money.
Yes you can buy debt.
I think we're trading Mark I may need your help I think 65% 70% is where they're kind of trading and that's nice.
But it's not going to have as much of an impact long-term is as spending the same amount of money on shares again all depends on where the shares are and debt is and so forth.
But generally we would see that as a maybe better impact.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And could you give us any update on where you are in the thought process now of with the dividend suspension some excess capital available for operations perhaps.
Are you looking at accelerating Webster or is that still part of the 2016 budgeting process that hasn't been determined yet? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So it is somewhat a part of the 2016 budgeting process.
We also have not completed our revised plans for Webster to date and actually it's not schedule to be completed till probably about second quarter of 2016.
So I think it'd be highly unlikely we would start anything at Webster until we get that completed.
We'll see where oil prices are so the earliest I think you'd potentially see something at Webster would definitely be in the second half of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> In terms of flooding but production volumes would be I guess early 2017 or? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes production volumes would be in 2017.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just the last one I had just to recap on Tinsley.
I understand you guys had warned last call that things were kind of peaking out there just given the warmer temperatures.
I can't remember if I'm misremembering this but was there a coolant plant that was down for the CO2 there and has that been reconstructed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I don't believe it was a coolant issue it was  we always struggle a little bit with CO2 in the summer because as the temperature goes up it becomes more gassy and it becomes a little bit harder to manage.
So that was part of the issue we kind of were hitting facility constraints there and I think  and so those things caused a what we believe is a little bit of a temporary dip in production or more exaggerated then we would have expected.
I think if you look at Tinsley you know we've been saying for some time that the field is generally developed and don't expect production to grow anymore.
I think if you kind of look at the trend over the last year or two is it's been running the low 8 000 barrels a day 8 300 barrels a day.
So over time we do expect that to decrease I guess the message we're trying to say it was a little bit more exaggerated decrease in the third quarter because of some of these facility things and CO2 issues.
And we expect part of that to come back but if you look at the long-term picture at Tinsley we do not expect it to really grow.
It will start decreasing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for your color Phil.
We'll go to Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Parks.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> See thinking about Rockies and the CO2 in the Rockies I was wondering as far as other operators doing tertiary production up there.
Do you have any sense of what the volumes being sold out of LaBarge are for the overall region are right now especially given the pull back in oil prices we've had? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't know that we are privvy to their precise volumes of what's being sold.
I mean we know kind of what the plant capacity is it's in the range of between 300 million and 350 million of day because we have a third of it.
But I don't know that we can answer exactly what's being taken at this moment.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sorry.
Probably a better way to put it would be  just are you aware of any decrease in activity in any of the other large fields along that pipeline route? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know.
Again I don't know that we know specifics.
I mean if I were to speculate I would guess they are probably not taking not increasing their volumes just in light of the oil price but I don't think I probably can comment on that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure.
No problem.
And sorry if you touched on this earlier but as far as the work on the Cedar Creek Anticline and just workover activity and so forth.
I know over the years you've done a fair amount of working on optimizing those water floods out there just any progress anything new on that front in this quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think there is anything really unusual or revolutionary.
I mean that they  I kind of alluded to it earlier they've obviously been focused on root cause analysis and we've seen the failure rate come down 20% 25%.
So that's part of what's helped us with workover cost because not only is the failure rate coming down but also obviously vendor costs have come down.
So add those two together and you get some pretty significant savings.
We continue to work that continue to experiment a little bit and we're just trying to maximize that asset just like all of the others but we have seen significant improvements at CCA in terms of our failure rate and that's a positive.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
That's all from me.
And our next question from the line of Gary Stromberg with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you have any expectations on the borrowing base.
I know it's in May but any thoughts if strip prices held today what that would look like? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> We've run some sensitivities based on what we saw for fall numbers and such.
I mean obviously reserves process is ongoing for year end and those will be the reserves we'd use.
So everything we're working off those so there's been kind of historical roll forward for the most part.
I think obviously price decks have come down for the banks so we would expect to see probably some degradation in the $2.6 billion but we don't feel like the $1.6 billion would be in jeopardy based on what we know at this point at all.
So obviously prices can change and but would expect the banks will continue to approach things fairly conservatively going forward.
So that's what we're anticipating.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then with regard to acquisitions.
What type of scale would you think about and would these be tuck-ins around your existing acreage.
And then finally how would you think about financing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
They would be tuck-ins or bolt-ons or however you want to describe them.
They'd be fields that we can access with infrastructure without significant expansions to infrastructure.
We'd probably I guess in short we'd probably finance it just with bank debt but again keep in mind we're being will be in  we aren't really looking at any of that would be a really large expenditure.
The one we purchased earlier this year was about $20 million a couple were looking at now are probably even less than that.
So we're not talking major outflow.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's all I have.
Thank you.
And our next question from the line of Joe Hurley with Morgan Stanley (48:44).
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Joe (48:50).
Can you just walk me through how you guys are kind of evaluating buying back stock versus buying back the bonds in the 50s and 60s? What's kind of  are you looking at IRR there kind of what's the exact calculation you guys are when you're evaluating in these analysis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think we're looking at  when you can do IRR and that sort of thing but I think probably we're looking more  what has the biggest impact on the company long-term? And say take $100 million for $100 million at the prices we paid would get you 10% or 11% of the company how does that compare to what $100 million would do with buying debt and you save maybe $30 million or $40 million.
If you look at those two we just feel like the long-term benefit to the company and to the shareholders is superior buying stock at that price now it all depends on what the price is and so forth with all the normal caveats but that's kind of I guess how we look at it.
Okay.
Thank you.
We have no further questions.
I'll turn it back to Ross Campbell for closing remarks.
Thank you Laurie.
Before we go let me cover a few housekeeping items.
On the conference front Phil Rykhoek who will be presenting at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Energy Conference in Miami which will occur next week.
The details are available on our website and the webcast for Phil's presentations will be accessible through the Investor Relations section.
Lastly for your calendars we plan to report fourth quarter 2015 results on Thursday February 18 and hold that conference call that day at New York time of 10 AM.
Thank you again for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the teleconference for today.
We thank you for using AT&amp;T teleconference service and you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Denbury Onshore Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release.
At this time phone lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will have a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
And at this time I'll turn the call over to Manager of Investor Relations Ross Campbell.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Nick and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me on the call from Denbury Resources are Phil Rykhoek our Chief Executive Officer; Mark Allen our Chief Financial Officer; and Chris Kendall our Chief Operating Officer.
Before we begin I would like to let you know that we have slides which will accompany today's discussion.
For those of you that are not accessing the call via the webcast these slides may be found at denbury.com homepage by clicking on the Quarterly Earnings Center link beneath resources.
I would like to bring your attention on today's call that we will be including forward-looking statements that are based on the best and most reasonable information we have today.
There are numerous factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from what is discussed on today's call.
You can read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the risk factors associated with our business in this presentation our most recent SEC filings and today's news release all of which are posted to our website at www.denbury.com.
Also please note that during the course of today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliation and disclosures relative to these measures are provided on today's news release as well as on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Ross.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter year-end call.
These are obviously tough times for everybody as the low commodity prices have substantially lowered cash flow and therefore put a significant priority on the preservation of cash and liquidity.
I believe if you examine the facts you'll find we've taken several proactive and leading steps in response to this downturn.
And in addition we have many inherent advantages over our peers because of our asset base and our capital structure.
Let me highlight some of those for you.
One we have taken and we'll continue to take steps to lower our cost in all categories of our business.
This is evidenced by our eighth consecutive quarterly reduction in lease operating expenses per BOE; a 30% reduction in Q4 cash general and administrative costs year-over-year 4% reduction on an annual basis; and by the ongoing efficiencies in our capital spending program.
While we are benefiting from vendor discounts and reductions most of our savings is attributable to the hard work of our team and these savings will remain in place after oil prices improve and vendor rates return to normal.
For example our team has significantly reduced the CO2 required to generate a barrel of oil.
They've improved our use of root cause analysis to reduce the number of required workovers.
We've tweaked our facilities to maximize performance and minimize power consumption.
And we continue to rework every field in our inventory and look for ways to optimize future spending.
These optimization efforts will benefit us both today and well into the future even after oil prices rebound.
Secondly we generated substantial excess cash flow during 2015 and repaid $220 million on our bank line improving our liquidity position.
Our bank debt is up a little bit since year-end generally running between $200 million and $250 million outstanding on a $1.5 billion committed line or over 80% to 85% undrawn.
Even if this ability is reduced our next borrowing base redetermination in May we still expect to have substantial available liquidity at that time.
Further Mark will discuss our recently obtained covenant relief which should enable us to meet the revised bank covenant test through the end of 2017 based on current strip prices.
To put it simply this is not a severely distressed company as some have portrayed.
Third we are one of the first to significantly reduce our capital spending cutting it by over a half for 2015 and now we're cutting it in half again for 2016.
In spite of these capital cuts our production decline relating to depletion will be a mid-single-digit decline an inherent advantage we have over our peers in this environment.
Our total production decline will be between 7% and 12% as we also have over 2 600 BOEs per day of production that's shut-in today that's either uneconomic to repair or produce.
And our forecast assumes that additional barrels will be shut-in during the year.
Chris will give you more color on this but our team has done a great job at isolating the uneconomic portions of each field shutting-in that production and as a result increasing our cash flow.
Bottom line we are pursuing cash flow and value not production and we will continue to make that trade every day.
Lastly we recently entered into additional hedges for the last half of 2016 and just a little bit in first quarter of 2017.
Currently we have 24 000 barrels a day of our crude oil production hedged at an average price of about $44 a barrel in Q3 and we have about 30 000 barrels a day hedged at an average price of around $38 a barrel in Q4; as I mentioned just a little bit in 2017 about 3 000 barrels a day.
These are not great prices but they protect our liquidity and will minimize our borrowings in the event that prices are lower for longer because these hedges are above our total current cash costs.
We're also fortunate that our production is 95% oil and this isn't liquids this is good quality crude oil.
Therefore even though we do have higher op costs than the average shale player if you look at the production netbacks  what I mean by that is revenue less operating cost you'll find we're quite competitive.
In fact we were in the upper portion of our peer group using our latest published numbers from the third quarter of 2015.
The key point here is that yes we do have somewhat higher op cost per barrel but that is more than offset by having one of the highest revenue rates per barrel in the industry.
So while it's not a pleasant environment we feel good about where we are.
Looking forward we do not expect oil prices to recover to the recent historic highs.
So we've realized we must adjust our business to compete in an oil price environment that is likely to be less robust than it was.
We are doing this by our continued efforts to lower costs as previously discussed.
In addition we also realized that over time we must reduce our overall debt levels to adjust to this anticipated lower-price environment.
Our subordinated debt has traded down to historically lower levels providing an opportunity to reduce total debt at a substantial discount.
We plan to review our options to enable us to take advantage of that opportunity while at the same time maintaining our liquidity and financial strength.
Of course such activities will depend on the availability and cost of capital relevant market conditions oil prices and market trading levels of our notes.
So while highly focused on the preservation of cash and liquidity we also want to be opportunistic and take advantage of this low-price environment.
If you go to the next slide and take a look at cost reductions going into a little more detail you'll see we're able to lower our recurring LOE in every quarter of 2015 down 15% per BOE from year-end 2014 down 26% of the highs in late 2013 or early 2014.
A large part of this reduction in LOE has been due to lower overall CO2 usage which is down 25% from the fourth quarter of 2014 to the most recent quarter.
We were also able to drive down G&amp;A by 7% on a per-BOE basis compared to full-year 2014 and 19% if you look at the respective quarters.
While pleased with these results we continue to look for additional cost-reduction opportunities in 2016 and increase value for every dollar we spend.
Moving to the next slide we've included our 2016 guidance.
We are currently anticipating our 2016 capital spending program to be approximately $200 million and that's excluding capitalized interest of which we expect nearly 75% to be spent on developmental capital items.
The single largest piece of this amount is approximately $55 million at Delhi which is predominantly an NGL plant.
This plant is not expected to be completed until very late in 2016.
But while a significant part of our capital in 2016 we will have very little benefit until next year.
This is a 51% reduction from our actual 2015 capital expenditures which totaled $407 million.
That means that I'm very pleased with the relatively low rates of decline of our production.
If you look at last year and adjust for the uneconomic wells we shut-in we essentially held production flat by spending about $400 million.
In 2016 we're cutting that spending in half to $200 million and expect a very shallow decline of 4% to 8% excluding the incremental uneconomic shut-ins or a 7% to 12% total expected decline.
This type of production profile is a real advantage for us in this current market helps us preserve our cash and liquidity which is one of our primary goals for this year.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mark to give you more financial details.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</strong> Thanks Phil.
My comments today will summarize some of the notable financial items in our release where I'll primarily be focusing on the sequential changes from the third quarter.
I will also provide some forward-looking guidance to help you in updating your financial models.
Starting on slide nine our non-GAAP adjusted net loss for the fourth quarter was $3 million or $0.01 per diluted share.
It looks like our DD&amp;A may have been slightly higher than some analyst expectations as we were generally better than analyst estimates on cash flow and EBITDA.
As you can see from our GAAP reconciliation in Q4 we had a $1.3 billion pre-tax ceiling test impairment as the trailing 12-month oil price continued its downward trend.
As you can see here this quarter's write-down was less than the $1.8 billion we recorded in the prior quarter.
As I have commented in prior quarters full-cost companies such as Denbury are required to use average first day of the month price for the trailing 12 months when comparing the PV-10 Value of their reserves against the book basis of their oil and gas properties.
Based on recent oil price levels we expect that we could record an additional write-down in Q1 of 2016 in excess of $400 million as current prices would indicate that the average price for the last 12 months will continue to average down.
On a GAAP basis you can see that primarily due to this write-down we had a net loss of $885 million for the quarter.
Turning to slide 10 our non-GAAP adjusted cash flow from operations which excludes working capital changes was $129 million for Q4 down $114 million from the third quarter.
This was primarily the result of a decrease in our hedge settlements and lower revenues due to lower realized prices.
Our fourth quarter average realized oil price excluding hedges declined to $40.41 per barrel down almost 12% from Q3.
We recognized $78 million in cash receipts on settlements from our hedges this quarter which made our average per barrel realized price including these hedges approximately $53 per barrel compared to over $71 per barrel last quarter.
Slide 11 provides a summary of our realized oil price differentials relative to NYMEX oil prices.
Our overall realized oil price averaged $1.74 below NYMEX in Q4 down from roughly $1 per barrel below NYMEX in Q3.
Differentials weakened for our Gulf Coast tertiary properties averaging approximately $1 per barrel below NYMEX in the fourth quarter and that's down from almost $1 per barrel above NYMEX in Q3.
For a portion of Q4 we saw LLS prices trade at or below WTI prices which was the primary reason for the weaker differential.
In the Rocky Mountain region our Cedar Creek Anticline oil differential improved for the fifth consecutive quarter selling at around $3 per barrel below NYMEX.
Based on differentials we have seen in early 2016 we currently expect that our overall oil differential could deteriorate somewhat in the first quarter of 2016 as we continue to see pressure on our Gulf Coast sweet crude and Rockies differentials.
Moving to the next slide I'd like to review some of our expense line items.
First our lease operating expense averaged $19.31 per BOE in the fourth quarter down slightly from Q3 normalized levels of $19.43 per BOE.
Chris will go into more detail on LOE in a few minutes but we expect LOE to remain in the $19 to $20 per BOE range in the first quarter of 2016.
G&amp;A expense was $27 million in Q4 representing a 17% reduction from the third quarter.
This decrease is primarily due to a reduction in our 2015 bonus accrual workforce reductions in 2015 and our continued focus on our cost-reduction efforts.
For the fourth quarter $7 million of net G&amp;A was related to stock-based compensation.
In the first quarter of 2016 we expect G&amp;A expense to be between $25 million and $30 million with approximately $4 million of this amount being stock-based compensation.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was $40 million which is up slightly from Q3.
Capitalized interest was relatively consistent at just under $7 million.
We currently expect capitalized interest to be lower in 2016 averaging approximately $5 million per quarter.
Our DD&amp;A expense was lower again this quarter due primarily to full cost ceiling test impairments recorded in the first three quarters of 2015.
With the additional impairment recorded this quarter we expect that our DD&amp;A expense will be in the $80 million to $90 million range in the first quarter of 2016.
Our effective income tax rate for Q4 was slightly below our estimated statutory rate of 38%.
For 2016 we anticipate our effective tax rate will be around 38% with little or no current tax.
On slide 13 we have an updated summary of our commodity hedges.
We are around 50% hedged in our production for the first and second quarters of 2016 and we have recently entered into hedges for the third and fourth quarters of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017.
You can see boxes around the hedges that we have added which we did to add some protection in the event that oil prices continue to stay at these depressed levels for an extended period of time.
Although our new hedges are generally in the upper $30s they at least cover our cash operating cost.
Also we currently estimate that it takes a NYMEX oil price average in the upper $30s for 2016 to balance our cash flow and capital expenditures.
On slide 14 we have added a chart that shows our expected hedging settlements based on various oil price sensitivities.
As some of our contracts contain sold puts in the first half of the year it is difficult to just provide an average hedge price.
So we have included the impacts here at various prices to help you in your modeling.
Slide 15 provides a summary of our current liquidity and capital structure.
As of December 31 2015 our total debt was approximately $3.3 billion which is down $260 million from year-end 2014.
We were able to reduce the drawn amount of our bank line by $220 million in 2015 bringing our year-end balance to $175 million on our recently updated commitment level of $1.5 billion.
Based on current projections we would anticipate that our bank debt will increase somewhat throughout 2016 and end 2016 in a range of $250 million to $300 million which includes roughly $30 million in principal payments on our financing leases.
On slide 16 with the continued downturn on oil prices it was becoming more likely that we might breach our interest coverage covenant in late 2016 under our bank credit facility.
As such we recently obtained amendment to our bank agreement the significant terms of the amendment are highlighted on this slide.
But essentially the amendment provides more flexibility under our interest coverage test and our senior secured leverage test to enhance access to liquidity under our bank line.
Under the amendment our interest coverage test was reduced from 2.25 times to 1.25 times EBITDAX and our senior secured leverage on that was increased from 2.5 times to three times EBITDAX both through 2017.
We currently believe that we can live within these limitations through 2017 at current strip prices.
In exchange for these revisions we agreed to reduce the commitment under our line from $1.6 billion to $1.5 billion; moved to a semiannual borrowing base redetermination instead of annual limit the amount of any subordinated debt repurchases to $225 million cash under the bank line and include an anti-hoarding provision which will limit the amount of excess cash we can hold at $225 million before having to pay down on the bank line.
In addition we also adjusted the pricing grid to current market rates which effectively increased our interest rate on bank borrowings by 75 basis points and increases the fee we pay for undrawn commitments.
The anti-hoarding provisions required by the banks are reaction to recent facility draws by certain companies.
The banks did not review our borrowing base as part of this amendment.
So we will be going through that process with the banks over the next couple of months.
It is hard to determine exactly what our borrowing base will be since the banks use its own price decks in assessing our reserves.
However based on our initial estimates using a recent bank's price deck we anticipate that it could potentially be in the range of or slightly below $1.5 billion commitment level that we have now.
But we cannot speak for the banks or as to what price decks they will ultimately use.
Bottom line it appears that our commitment level could come down a bit from where we are currently but we expect to still have a substantial amount of liquidity under our bank line.
In fact at current strip prices the three times EBITDAX limit on our senior secured debt could become the limiting factor rather than our borrowing base particularly in 2017.
And now I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Mark.
Our company continues to keep a sharp focus on generating value and preserving cash across the business and I'm very pleased with our success on a number of fronts.
Leveraging the low capital needs of our unique business model help drive our full-year CapEx excluding capitalized interest even lower than the reduction we forecasted in our last earnings call finishing the year at $407 million over 60% lower than our 2014 spend.
We have continued to reduce our recurring operating costs reaching a new multi-year low of $19.31 per BOE in the fourth quarter nearly 15% lower than the fourth quarter of 2014.
As we enter 2016 still in this low price environment I am especially encouraged with how our teams have found ways to maximize the value and cash flow of our business and I will go into some specifics on that a bit later.
Finally I'm particularly proud of the team's accomplishments in safety and environmental compliance where we reached multi-year records in every single measure.
We remain committed to keeping people safe and taking care of the environment.
Starting with the look at reserves on slide 18 Denbury's total estimated proved oil and national gas reserves at December 31 2015 were 289 million BOE of which 98% were liquids and 79% were proved developed.
CO2 tertiary operations account for 57% of the proved reserves.
Adjusting for 2015 production the 289 million BOE represents a net reduction during 2015 of 122 million BOE nearly all of which was due to commodity pricing.
About half of the price base reduction was a 368 Bcf reclassification of natural gas reserves at Riley Ridge which reduced our proved reserves by 61 million BOE but had very little impact from a value perspective.
I'd also like to mention that we added positive performance-related revisions totaling nearly 14 million BOE in Tinsley and Oyster Bayou two examples of good fields that keep getting better.
Additionally our largest non-price-related reduction about 11 million BOE at Heidelberg was based only on changes to development timing due to the current price environment which shifted these proved undeveloped reserves out of a five-year development window.
The estimated discounted pre-tax net present value of Denbury's proved reserves at year-end 2015 using a 10% discount rate was $2.3 billion compared to $8.7 billion on December 31 2014.
Lower realized oil prices accounted for nearly all of that difference.
Now I'll discuss our operations beginning with an overview of production.
As you can see on slide 19 overall company production was just over 72 000 BOE per day for the fourth quarter 1% higher than our production in the third quarter and 4% below the fourth quarter of 2014.
And as Phil mentioned about 2 600 BOE per day were shut-in for economics.
Our full-year 2015 production was about 72 900 BOE per day 2% below 2014.
After adjusting for the shut-in barrels and the weather-related flooding downtime we kept 2015 production essentially flat versus 2014.
Looking exclusively at our tertiary fields production during the fourth quarter was nearly 41 200 barrels per day an increase of 1% from the prior quarter and a decrease of 2% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
Offsetting the production shut-in for economics or production gains at Delhi and Tinsley as well as at Bell Creek where tertiary production increased 26% from the third quarter to a record 2 800 barrels per day as we continue ramping up phase three of that flood.
Non-tertiary production was even with the third quarter and down 7% from fourth quarter 2014 levels.
Production shut-in for economics partially offset by strong performance at Cedar Creek Anticline drove the main difference compared to the prior-year quarter.
At the end of 2015 we had approximately 1 700 barrels per day of shut-in production.
We've mentioned production shut-in due to economics.
And as a reminder these are wells that are uneconomic to operate at today's oil price or wells that require uneconomic repairs.
We have continued to refine our process of working systematically across the business to ensure we are maximizing cash flow from each field.
And so shutting-in production is on the table in today's price environment.
In some cases this may mean shutting-in specific higher cost wells but it could also entail shutting down uneconomic tank batteries or compressions.
A representative example is our mature Little Creek Field where we identified an opportunity to add incremental cash flow of over $2 million this year by shutting down one of our gas compressors.
We deferred about 150 barrels per day for the year but the energy and maintenance costs saved by shutting down the compressor resulted in more cash flow than producing those barrels.
We are repeating this analysis across our portfolio and we continue to find and implement similar opportunities to reduce operating expense and increase overall cash flow and returns.
Turning to slide 20 on an absolute basis our normalized lease operating expenses totaled $128 million in the fourth quarter essentially flat with the prior quarter and down about 18% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
On a per BOE basis total quarterly LOE adjusted for non-recurring items averaged $19.31 per BOE 1% below the prior quarter and 15% below the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our fourth quarter CO2 costs were about $0.53 per BOE higher than in the third quarter nearly all of that due to workover activities carried out at Jackson Dome during the fourth quarter.
Even with that incremental cost our normalized LOE per BOE has decreased in each quarter for all of 2014 and 2015; and on an annual basis is at a level that we have not seen since 2010.
The largest drivers of this decrease are reduced workover expense and lower CO2 costs which I'll discuss in more detail next.
We expect LOE in 2016 to remain below $20 per BOE as we aggressively target each component of our cost structure.
Going into more detail on our cost on slide 21 we continue to drive significant sustained improvement in our CO2 efficiency.
We reduced our total company CO2 injected volumes by 25% from 942 million cubic feet per day in the fourth quarter of 2014 to 705 million cubic feet per day in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Comparing sequential quarters our volumes were up slightly from 678 million cubic feet per day to 705 million cubic feet per day in the fourth quarter mainly a result of pressure maintenance in the Tinsley field that has helped drive the production gains we've recently experienced.
We continue to monitor CO2 utilization to ensure that we are maximizing cash flow which requires a careful balance of CO2 purchase expense; incremental LOE to a compress pump and transport the CO2; and the oil production and sales revenue generated by the CO2 we use.
Working that balance has caused us to trade some temporary production shortfalls or overall improved cash flow and we will continue to make that trade as we go through 2016.
I'd also like to highlight several other significant benefits of reducing our use of CO2 including extending the life of our CO2 supply at Jackson Dome; reducing the development and maintenance expense required to maintain our CO2 supply; reducing development capital on new floods due to lower CO2 processing requirements; and ultimately unlocking the company's opportunity set for new CO2 floods in the future.
Now I'll turn it back over to Ross.
Thank you Chris.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Nick can you please open up the call for questions.
Certainly.
And we'll go first to the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just on the budget and you mentioned it Phil in your remarks about Delhi being a pretty big portion of it.
How do you see that spending kind of going throughout the year? Is that something that's going to be back-end loaded specifically about Delhi or just kind of how you see the cadence of the spend throughout the year? Hi Jason.
This is Chris Kendall.
Delhi while Phil mentioned that the plans would be on line at the end of the year we see the majority of the expenses weighted closer to the front of the year associated with our installation activities and the completion of the components that are fabricated and being brought in for assembly onsite.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And Chris you mentioned just kind of walking through the plans about shut-ins and things.
I mean obviously there's an estimate of when things will go down and that's kind of a moving target but as you're moving through I guess the procedure like you mentioned one of which kind of shut-in for the $2 million savings is that an ongoing process and it's obviously pretty dependent on where prices move? Or is that something that you kind of settled on now and now we're just kind of looking for more natural I guess shut-ins so to speak? I'd say two things.
One is it's absolutely continuing to go on Jason.
We have process in place where we're on a weekly daily basis looking at our fields what makes sense to continue to produce at current prices and as the situation changes we'll keep adjusting that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
I wanted to follow up on the shut-in theme if we look at kind of the guidance maybe you're talking about a 7 000 barrel a day decline if we use the midpoint.
And you talk about 40% of that from shut-ins.
You're getting to call it 2 800 a day.
I guess my question was as  if we see an incremental increase in oil prices do those shut-ins come back online? Can we think about that in any kind of linear format if we get to call it a $50 oil price? Tim this is Chris again.
I'll take that question.
First I'd like to mention we have built into the budget numbers that you've seen for 2016 an additional  about 1 000 barrels a day takes us up to total shut-in of 3 700 per day for the year so we have that built in to the budget.
What I would say is that there is  along with that process of looking at our shut-in production continually as prices increase we will be ready to bring that production back on at whatever level is required to do that.
Okay.
And that could be a pretty I guess tactical response on a field-by-field basis? Absolutely.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess my second question was for Mark you spoke a little quickly kind of on the credit the borrowing base redetermination.
I guess you're kind of signaling that we should expect something below $1.5 billion but can you be any more granular on kind of the level of decline we could see? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> I wish I could.
I think what we're seeing is quite a bit of disparity across the banks in terms of what price decks they're using based on what I hear.
And obviously we have some time yet before we even get to the redetermination.
So a lot of them are just now kind of setting their price decks.
So the information that I'm working off of is from one of our lead banks.
And so I'm running numbers based on their price decks.
And so that's kind of how it shakes out.
Now I can't speak for the other banks.
And under our facility we need about two-thirds approval  right at two-thirds approval of the banks for the borrowing base.
So it really gets back to what price deck the banks are going to use and how they evaluate things.
So I think we could be in that range but I also think based on what I hear from some of the banks it could slip a little bit just seeing what they're doing with their price decks.
So I wish I could give you more clarity at this point but that's as best I can do for right now.
Okay.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then just to make sure I heard correctly you talked about the borrowing level maybe being at $250 million to $300 million by the end of 2016 is that kind of what you're thinking now? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> That's right.
Yes.
Okay.
So even if  it's still a lot of capacity.
Thank you.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
That's the point here.
We still have a lot of liquidity even if we do  it does come down slightly.
So we'll just keep monitoring it but that's why we've been so judicious about maintaining our liquidity here so...
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Phil I was just looking at either that slide six or 20 where you nicely outlined the cost.
I guess particularly on that slide 20 where you kind of list those costs how they've continued to come down your thoughts I mean Phil you did mention about obviously the lower CO2 usage.
I'm just wondering I guess some of those  the two higher costs in there being the power and fuel or labor and overhead.
If you could comment on either of those are there some further cuts that you all see continuing this year? I mean you hear about that from obviously the traditional guys when they talk about getting more out of their drilling and more out of their fracs but just wondering what you guys could address? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it's something  it's hard to forecast.
We keep looking at it and trying to minimize as much as we can.
Actually on power ironically we're facing some increasing rates.
So we're trying to offset that by using less power but we're fighting a little bit of inflation actually.
In labor we try to continue to get more efficient.
So we're guiding to 19 to 20.
We'll keep working it and since we have a nice record year of eight consecutive drops in a row so we hate to not keep that string going.
But admittedly it does get a little harder the lower we get.
Inc.</span></strong> And I guess is it fair to say Phil I mean it obviously never really comes up in this kind of environment about M&amp;A and given you are shutting some things in does that  are you just really continue to look at M&amp;A as far as bolt-ons or if you could just address that at all.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Well as Mark mentioned we've been very careful about using our bank line because that's our liquidity.
And so because of that the acquisitions we have looked at are ones that don't require a lot of upfront money.
So we did two of them in 2015.
They both were small Manvel and [Gastrol] and those are the type of things that we might be interested in.
I don't think we would work to without some other form of financing or some other type of capital jump on a big transaction but these little ones that we can pick up that may be a minimal production in our future EUR targets would be something we would definitely consider.
Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
Thanks Phil.
Next we'll go to the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Phil and to the rest of your team there.
I'm wondering if you can give us your narrative of the trajectory of that debt exchange offer that you guys put out in December and withdrew in January.
And maybe wrap it up with any comments you have on how that affects your appetite or posture to try another one? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as you know we pulled that exchange; and quite simply we just didn't get the participation level that we had hoped for to make it worthwhile.
And the reason it wasn't worthwhile is the new note had more restrictive covenants and so forth.
So we didn't want to restrict ourselves unless it was a significant gain or significant reduction in overall debt.
So that's why we pulled it.
I mentioned in my comments that we know we'd like to work on our debt level over time and it is potentially an opportunity that sub debt is trading at historically low levels.
So we're looking at those options.
The key is we want to maintain our liquidity with our bank line; and secondly we can't use too much there anyway.
But we have a very flexible capital structure.
We have a very simplistic structure as far as debt levels.
And the covenants are also in good shape.
So we're looking at our options.
Got it.
And is there anything to  there was that wrinkle that as first designed the new note that you are offering for holders to exchange into wasn't secured.
And then it had that that makes it different from some of these other exchanges that have gone off.
Do you think  if you did it again would a secured feature have to be part of it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well actually we changed the covenants part way through the exchange.
Right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And made them pari passu with a second lien.
So while maybe they didn't technically have a second lien they were equal.
Right.
I was just wondering if maybe people just didn't  took a look at it the first time and then moved on but I think you addressed it.
Thank you Phil.
If I could sneak on one more in on  this is maybe for Chris about the shut-ins.
I think you've hinted at this when you said that you have 3 700 BOE a day of shut-ins built into your guidance.
But to me that suggests that the bigger opportunities have already been uncovered and then we're kind of  the future cash flow improvements and shut-ins are likely going to be smaller in magnitude but is that the right read? I think that's a fair statement Charles.
The majority of the provision that we have in for the rest of the year assuming that we stay in this current price environment is driven by wells that  for example let's say you have a failure and it's not economic to repair.
We don't know what that well would be so it's just an assumption on that.
But certainly at these price levels we've looked hard at what we should shut-in and have shut-in at this level.
Got it.
Thank you for that detail.
Thank you.
We'll go now to the line of Ryan Oatman with Cowen.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Morning.
Mark thanks for the detail on slide 16.
I do see the significant relief there.
You mentioned that some of the additional constraints to the bond repurchase a limit of $225 million obviously the debt exchanges are different than those bond repurchases.
I just want to clarify I mean this agreement wouldn't prevent or limit in anyway Denbury's ability to conduct a debt exchange if it wanted to.
Is that correct? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yes.
We still have that flexibility potentially on what additional securities we could offer that might require bank approval; but no we still have decent flexibility around that so...
Got you.
So additional securities such as perhaps preferreds or some of that event may require the banks to get involved.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Right.
Like second liens potentially banks would have to sign off on that so...
Got you.
Makes sense.
And then with regards to the PV-10 Value is it fair for us to assume a similar split between developed and undeveloped as for the reserve reports and namely approximately 80% there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the developed piece would have a higher value because the undeveloped piece has more costs against it.
So I don't know what that split is on a PV basis but your PDP is going to be worth more or your proved developed is going to be worth more.
Okay.
And then with regards to the bank debt agreement is essentially the PV-10 Value that's supporting that or are there other assets that are supporting that bank debt agreement? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> The banks in setting the borrowing base generally look to the reserves oil and gas reserves.
Got you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well let me just add  just because I think it's a real feature of our assets.
One we do have a higher percentage PDP.
But two when you kind of look at it that PDP value doesn't decline very rapidly just as our production doesn't decline very rapidly.
So I think from a banking perspective we probably have a much better asset package as far as making them feel comfortable with the future than maybe some of our other peers.
That makes sense.
Is there any thoughts to pledging as collateral additional assets say that aren't upstream assets or aren't upstream oil and gas assets against that bank debt? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> The banks have basically first interest in most everything.
I mean they have  it's not just the oil and gas properties but that is what's primarily security and we have to mortgage for them.
So that's predominantly it in terms of the primary security but they have access to other things as well so...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well they have a negative pledge.
Just as Mark said if you were to do a second or issue a lien to anybody else we would have to have their consent.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
Great.
I appreciate it.
Thank you guys.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yep.
Next we'll go to the line of Tarek Hamid with JPMorgan.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
On the liabilities sort of management front given kind of everything that you've gone through already but also the $225 million you sort of carved out of the bank facility for bond repurchases could you maybe just sort of prioritize how you're thinking about sort of future exchanges versus bond repurchases versus sort of other potential deferred equity or other type of exchanges going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't think we can probably give you a lot of help on that.
We're looking at all the options and I guess we just have to leave it at that.
We'd love to reduce our debt but I can't give you a sense of what the priority would be at this point.
Fair enough.
I get paid to ask the question.
And then as you go through and this is more back to just the shut-ins again maybe talk a little bit about and I know it's hard to do but just sort of the hypothetical capital required to reverse future shut-ins if we were to get a material move in the commodity.
Sort of how would you think about that? What would the timeline be? What with the rough capital order of magnitude be? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> What I'd say is that the capital is very nominal to bring those wells back on and the timing would be nearly immediate.
And that would be the first wave of activities that we'd take part in when we do see oil prices moving back in that direction.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Thanks.
And we'll go next to the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Yes.
Do you have any assets that you think could be candidates for divestiture that could help bolster your liquidity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well most of our assets are core.
So they're either current pledge future pledge or assets that produce CO2.
So we have very minimal assets that don't fit that category.
So we're very protective of those assets.
I guess secondly it's kind of a tough environment to be selling assets when oil's current price is $30 and the strip price is pretty low.
And I guess thirdly we have a lot of liquidity.
So we don't feel like we have to do anything.
We have substantial bank line and substantial liquidity.
So we're not really strapped day to day.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then as we look at the oil production profile throughout the year are you expecting that to have a steady smoother decline? Or will it be a little more sawtooth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> This is actually pretty steady.
I mean I guess it's part of that straight line but it's not too far from it.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll go next to the line of Adam Leight with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning everybody.
I think you've been pretty exhaustive on most of this but just one clarification from Mark on the bond repurchase.
Is that a dynamic number? Is that kind of a hard code? Does it change with availability on whatever the borrowing base may be redetermined to now? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
So right now it's just a firm number.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's not percentage of the borrowing fees Adam...
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...
it's just a fixed cap.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Always could be renegotiated I'm sure.
And then other people have tried to get an answer out of you on this but if you were to sort of prioritize  it sounds like you're prioritizing liquidity over leverage as you kind of move through this lower for longer cycle.
Is that a fair statement for now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that's probably fair.
I mean we have to maintain liquidity.
We have to maintain our cash position because that protects the company.
So it's balancing that that has to be number one priority balancing opportunities like the low trading levels over debt just trying to balance those two priorities but liquidity and  this has to be the highest priority.
So for  if it were possible to do a second lien or one and a half is there an explicit decline from the banks on your borrowing base related to that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I'm sure if we did a second or any  one and a half or however you structure it there would probably be some reduction in the bank line because they would take into account the additional debt.
Now it may not be one for one but we'll just have to work through that.
But I'm sure there would be some reduction.
Just trying to get a sense if that's something that's changing like these anti-hoarding provisions so anyway that's it for me.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
Next we'll go to the line of Gail Nicholson with KLR Group.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just a quick question you talked about with an improving oil prices that incremental capital dollar will probably get spent to bring the shut-in production online.
After that if we get maybe oil back in let's say a $50 $60 environment where does that incremental additional cash flow generate might be spent? Is it to reduce debt and further improve the balance sheet? Is it maybe potentially buying back stock or is it maybe looking at spending money at Webster for future production growth? How do you guys look at that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the best bang for the buck is probably continuing to expand the floods that we're currently operating.
So Hastings has development left Bell Creek has development left Delhi does.
And we've curtailed that in 2016.
So there is very little future development occurring and I think that would probably be the first thing we'd turn on because that's your best value.
At some point we will need to start new floods and probably the likely first one on the list will be Webster partly because the pipeline is already there.
So I think we just have to work through that and see what we have to spend.
I think we're very conscious of keeping our cash flow and expenditures as close as we can to a match.
And I think we obviously would like to spend a little bit more to stabilize our production so I think those would probably be the priorities.
Great.
And just for the $35 million that you're spending in non-tertiary this year is that predominately directed towards CCA? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's kind of spread around.
But yes I mean it is.
A lot of that is CCA.
CCA is our single biggest non-EOR field in fact the single biggest producer.
But that number is  all these numbers are kind of spread around.
In fact in some cases they're actually kind of just baskets of allocated money that we haven't even specifically identified yet.
We're actually being very careful in taking a review actually every month by senior management to look at every dollar we spend.
So we are watching cash like a hawk.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
We'll go to the next call from James Spicer with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning.
The two CO2 facilities in the Gulf Coast and the gas processing facility in the Rockies that you are purchasing how much are you spending on that in 2016? And is there any other acquisition CapEx that we should be thinking about? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The CO2 facilities we're really not spending hardly virtually zero I guess on any incremental CO2 supply.
One of the real pluses is in the Gulf Coast  well both places actually we have plenty of CO2 for current needs.
And Jackson Dome as an example is capable of producing more than we're currently using.
So we don't see any real capital needs for additional CO2 in at least in the near-term.
Okay I thought that you had that there were two facilities that you were in the process of actually purchasing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not sure what you're referring to.
Okay.
I'll figure that out and may get back to you offline.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Maybe call us offline.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then my second question back on the debt reduction just sort of looking at it a different way perhaps with the $225 million in cash carved out of the credit facility based on where your bonds are trading that would imply that you could theoretically buy back $1 billion plus of debt.
Just wondering if you have a target amount of debt in mind when you think about reducing debt.
And is there any sort of timing considerations or maturity considerations that you're thinking about there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we're probably going to dodge that question too.
I mean you're right theoretically that would be a mathematical correct answer but I think we're just looking at the options.
So I don't know if I can give you specific guidance on that.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go now to the line of Maryana Kushnir with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I wanted to clarify you mentioned the projected balance on the revolving facility and part of the reason why it will go up because you have scheduled payment on capital leases.
Could you quantify how much that payment is? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Down $30 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Also regarding shut-in production what's the average LOE for those barrels that are going to  incremental barrels that are going to be shut-in? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> I don't have the average Maryana.
But I would say it's probably on the higher end as many of those were shut-in for economics.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I'm just trying to understand if your LOE guidance is kind of in line with the recent performance and you mentioned some cost pressures on power but it seems like you're managing to use less power.
But then if you shut in higher cost barrels so then should we take your cost guidance as rather be  rather conservative? It just seems like if higher cost volume is coming down then average LOE should also come down.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean that's a fair point and we obviously hope we can do better on LOE.
You'd also have to take into account though that production is going to be slipping a little bit.
So...
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...that does affect your per BOE numbers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then going back to the asset sale question and I guess you quantified your assets as being core but regarding your large footprint of pipelines and facilities is there a transaction that can be structured and still I realize very difficult environment but where you get upfront liquidity even if you pay a higher operating cost to use those facilities? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that's a common question we've had over the years.
I think that's always an option that we could monetize pipelines.
Yes I think we could probably raise money but it does come with a repayment obligation.
So you're  it's akin to borrowing money even if it's not on the balance sheet.
And secondly it's probably long-term or permanent if you actually sell the asset.
So I guess there is high cost.
Of course we don't have real high tax bases in our CO2 pipelines so we'd have to pay Uncle Sam a significant portion which raises the cost of that financing.
So we would look at this long and hard.
I think it is always an option.
Conceptually I think we're a little more interested in doing something with pipelines maybe to fund future ones rather than existing because we don't have the tax issue.
But it is always an option.
But I don't think it necessarily is a real savior when it comes to cash flow and so forth because it is not low cost debt or low cost financing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
Thank you.
We'll now go to the line of Gregg Brody with Bank of America.
Hey guys.
Just some follow-ups.
Just to be very clear here the $225 million of bond repurchases that carve out  if you have $250 million borrowed on your revolver can you no longer use that at that point or is it...? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> No.
That does not apply to the bond limitation the repurchase limitation.
Yes.
Okay.
And then on the revolver forecast you gave for year-end does that number include some bond repurchases in there? And maybe if you could tell us what deck you're using for that $250 million to $350 million range.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
It's just running out our current projections for 2016 at recent kind of strip prices so it's just our internal model using strip prices.
And that does not include buybacks? Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Nothing factored in there.
And then the last question for you just anti-hoarding provisions was there a requirement to have  to allow for cash as collateral as part of your borrowing base with that? Or is that not the case? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
We don't have to  the anti-hoarding is just to prevent a draw on your bank line and taking it up to the max and then sitting on that cash as several companies have done recently.
And so the banks are very sensitive about that and it's really just to prevent that.
So...
Got it.
Thank you very much guys.
I appreciate the time.
Senior Vice President Treasurer &amp; Assistant Secretary</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you gentlemen.
I'll turn it back over for any closing remarks.
Before you go let me cover a few housekeeping items.
Recently we updated our Corporate Responsibility Report for 2015 which we think illustrates our commitment to these principles and the transparency with our stakeholders regarding our economic environmental and social performance.
It can be found on our website at www.denbury.com.
On the conference front Phil and Chris will be attending the Credit Suisse Energy Conference in Vail which will occur next week.
The details are available on our website and the webcast for Phil's presentation will be accessible through the Investor Relations section.
Lastly for your calendars.
We plan to report first quarter 2016 results on Thursday May 5 and hold our conference call that day at 10 A.M.
Central.
Thanks again for joining us for today's call.
We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
Thank you.
And also this conference was recorded back for reply and you may access that AT&amp;T replay system running through today at 12:30 through March 18 at midnight.
The phone numbers to join the access is 800-475-6701 or international callers may use 320-365-3844.
Either number will require a common access code of 324020.
The numbers again are 800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with an access code of 324020.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.