Good morning.
My name is Julianne and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore Drilling First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Les Van Dyke Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Moe Plaisance Vice President Marketing; and Michael Acuff Vice President of Marketing.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Given these concerns investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements.
The company expressly disclaims any obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements to reflect any changes in the company's expectations or any changes in events conditions or circumstances on which any forward looking statement is based.
After we have discussed our results we will have a question and answer session during which we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow up so we can open the floor to as many people as possible.
With that I'll turn the meeting over to Larry.
Thank you and good morning as well.
We were very pleased with the operating results which we are able to report this morning.
A couple of comments around that we had some of the lowest unanticipated equipment downtime that we've recorded in many many quarters fell from Q4 of '10 of 142 days to only 72 days in Q1 of '11.
Now we've worked very hard.
We've got lots of programs dealing with responding [ph] to do preventive maintenance such that we don't have this but it is -- we believe that that's related to that.
But it is an event that will come and go.
But we're very pleased with that.
We also had a very low amount of shipyard and job preparation and mobe time in the quarter only 168 days which is down 100 days from Q4 of '10 and significantly from Q3 of '10 where we were over 570 days in that nature.
So a more effective day rate utilization out there through a combination of preventive maintenance to prevent things from breaking and a schedule where for this quarter and Gary will talk a little about as we look to the next quarter we actually have very few rig moves or contract preps or scheduled shipyard time all of which benefits us greatly.
Now having said that I would point out that we have 3 big rigs that are scheduled to return to work or begin recognizing higher revenue in the coming quarter.
Let's start with the Ocean Monarch which has been idle really since shortly after the events of a year ago.
Today we have an approximate 60 day job with Marathon in the 290s where we'll be working here in the Gulf of Mexico.
The Ocean Victory has been recognizing a standby day rate primarily we do have some future commitments from this customer above 500 000 which we will begin we believe recognizing some of that day rate in Q2.
And then there are some farm out opportunities for that rig to work for additional folks not at the $500 rate but significantly above what we've been enjoying on a standby rate.
And then the Ocean America which has a contract that lasts into next year with Woodside in Australia has finished some shipyard modifications and special survey and has returned from Singapore and is working today.
And that's in the low 400s.
So all of those things well be positives that will come about as we go forward into Q2.
Now looking down the road in Q3 and Q4 that's when we begin to have a number of rigs that are scheduled in the shipyard so those will be some negatives that will hit us in Q3 Q4.
But again we're certainly pleased with this $1.80 total earnings including the recovery of about $0.06 I believe related to collection of a bad debt.
This was from the financial crisis where we continued to work for a company that went bankrupt.
We lost all of our future contract but for that work period of time that was a claim that we were able to file in court and a final disposition of assets came through and we collected that.
So whether you want to look at $1.80 or I think discounting a couple of other very minor non recurring items we are down to $1.73.
So that lays the table as we go forward we'll talk about the market and how we see that and prospects for our new drill ships through your Q&amp;A.
I'm going to turn it over to Gary Krenek to make some additional comments.
Thanks Larry.
As Larry pointed out for the quarter we made $251 million of bottom line net income or $1.80 a share based on revenues of $789 million.
This compares to last quarter when we made $242 million in net income or EPS of $1.74 on $824 million.
Getting right into some of the specific line items on the income statement.
The balance sheet was pretty clean as normal so there's really nothing to comment there.
On the income statement looking at contract drilling expenses those came in at $362 million which was below our bottom line guidance.
Our guidance last conference call was for it to come in at $370 million to $380 million.
The two reasons for coming in below that low end of the guidance.
One was we decided to coal stack the Ocean Epoch on a rig that's located in Australia Southeast Asia area.
That rig was scheduled to come in to do a survey on it because of the excess cost of what we were going to have to spend on that survey we decided to coal stack that rig so the fact of not having operating expenses for the second half of the quarter plus saving the survey cost lowered our contract drilling expenses somewhat.
Also our continuing efforts to control cost continue to pay off in bring us in at the low end of our guidance.
Larry talked about bad debt expense.
That was a negative $8.5 million as a line item.
I won't talk any more about that.
Depreciation came in slightly below our expectations at $101 million.
We had guided to $103 million to $106 million per quarter for this year.
Based on the information we have available now we're expecting future quarters to come in at between $101 million to $104 million per quarter.
Q2 will be a little bit toward the high end of that guidance simply based on the number of days.
We have one more day in Q2 than we did in Q1.
G&amp;A was $18 million within our guidance of $17 million to $18 million.
And we expect that to continue on a go forward basis also.
Now looking at our tax expense line where we had the biggest variance for the guidance we gave in our last conference call we had an effective tax rate of approximately 16% for the quarter.
Contributing to this low rate was a reduction to deferred income tax expense related to undistributed earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries.
Due to the tax law change enacted late December of 2010 and in light of our new rigs being constructed the company determined during the quarter that it would be more tax efficient to redeploy earnings of the foreign subs into new rig reconstruction rather than repatriating the earnings to the U.S.
This resulted in an approximately $15 million one time reduction to our current quarter's tax expense.
Disregarding this reduction to deferred tax the annual effective tax rate would have been approximately 21%.
Our original guidance last quarter was for a tax rate of between 24% and 26%.
This reduction this quarter is due primarily to differences in the mix of our domestic and international pretax earnings as well as the mix of international tax jurisdictions which we operate or expect to operate throughout 2011.
Based on the current information now available we're revising our estimate for our tax rate on a go forward basis to be somewhere between 21% and 25% for all 3 of the quarters remaining in 2011.
Looking forward to 2011 for the rest of our items a big one contract drilling expense.
We gave out normal operating costs by rig type and rig location last quarter and those numbers remain consistent.
If you calculate those numbers you need to also add an additional $21 million worth of amortized mobe expense.
Our per-day cost do not -- does not include amortized mobes because that number can vary from quarter to quarter.
So if you take the normal operating costs plus the $21 million amortized mobe we expect to see contract drilling expense of somewhere between $360 million and $375 million in this coming quarter.
As Larry pointed out Q2 will be a very low quarter as far as rigs going into the shipyard for either some type of equipment modification repair or their five year surveys.
As per our rig status report that we released yesterday or this morning we only have 21 days expected in Q2.
Q3 we will be up to 366 down days for rigs in the shipyard surveys and that will include 7 rigs.
And at that point we will incur additional cost for those rigs going into the shipyard.
So Q2 will be as I've said before somewhere between $360 million to $375 million.
We expect to see those costs to go up in Q3.
Again G&amp;A $17 million to $18 million for the rest of the year.
The effective tax rate as I said 21% to 24%.
And finally our CapEx guidance that we gave last quarter which was $320 million worth of CapEx that is in addition to the down payments we made on the new builds that we did during the first quarter of slightly over $300 million.
That guidance remains in place and we will continue to expect to see that for 2011.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry Okay so we'll take questions.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Dan Boyd with Goldman Sachs.
Larry maybe you can give us just a little flavor of what you're seeing out there in the market in terms of what regions are stronger from a tendering activity specifically in the mid water fleet? But I'd also like to get a little more color on the rate you might expect for the Monarch if you were to get a longer term contract? I think we've seen recent contracts well above the rate that you recently secured.
But recognizing that is for maybe a shorter term and you just want to get back to work for now? Yes.
I would say that the Gulf of Mexico rate is special situation where we're putting it to work and we've met with the customer and sort of came to a conclusion.
It's certainly came to a positive to us.
We would be bidding that rig at higher rates in international markets.
I think everybody needs to understand that there would be a long mobe to get there where    move to zero recognition of both revenue and cost which would be spread out in the future.
So that would be the near term impact would actually be it'd be positive from where we've been where we've been idle and incurring costs but it would be negative versus finding jobs here in the Gulf of Mexico.
And that just depends upon the market where we're bidding.
I've just broadly stated we're in the 300 zone up into the 400s depending upon the kind of application and the term that we would be looking to put it.
And certainly it is working at a discount to DP units because of the fact that there's above costs involved.
But there are a few markets where this type of tool would be -- compete very well.
Are you seeing opportunity for it to get more term or are you in negotiations on that or bidding it in anything? Well certainly we have 60 days here so yes.
Any of the jobs that we're talking about with any kind of term are going to be in the international market rather than Gulf of Mexico.
So we would be looking at additional term.
I'm not sure at this point that we've had our hands around anything that's 3 years but anywhere from pieces that we might put together of wells that would be small term on up to maybe reaching out to 2 years would be things that we've look at up to date.
Okay.
And then anything on I guess since last quarter any changes in international market where you're seeing either strength or maybe weakness? I'm going to let Moe and Michael comment on that.
We're seeing some strengthening in certainly in Southeast Asia in mid water and in deep water.
West Africa continues to show some activity and we're proactive there with both the Ocean Valiant and the Ocean Confidence.
So we    other than the Gulf of Mexico we see the market as doing well.
I mean we've got so many of our mid water rigs locked up in Brazil and continue to be.
Yes I guess we have 4 mid water units that are cold stack the Epoch and the Bounty which are facing some investments in the market although it's improving is not at the level that we're comfortable making those investments.
And then we got too idle in the Gulf of Mexico which is as much related to the permitting issue as age of the equipment and decreased demand frankly probably for mid water units here in the Gulf of Mexico.
That brings up an interesting topic because they're    especially if you look back a year with the events at Macondo there's a lot of fear out there that your rigs would become either obsolete or just require significant amount of CapEx to work to operate safely.
Have you had the opportunity now as the year's gone by to go look through your fleet? Are there any    did you feel comfortable with your    beyond the 4 that are currently stacked it was not requiring significant CapEx down the road? Have customers required you to do checks and now that has given you more comfort? Or where do we stand on that in terms of potential CapEx? Well most of the focus with any sort of specificity has been the deeper water units where you've got more room and typically larger stacks so that you can meet those kinds of standards.
The smaller mid water units typically have 4 Ram stacks and we may make some changes down the road.
But we're not really looking at anything immediately that needs to be done to those rigs.
Certainly having brought up the one year anniversary I can say the most significant things that we have done at Diamond Offshore is to ensure that our procedures and our personnel are in place and that we will continue to follow prudent drilling practices that have kept the industry safe and productive these many years and I think that's what everybody needs to work on.
We will meet the standards that our customers require of us.
Obviously I think everybody would recognize that certain older equipment there's just not space to significantly increase the size of the BOP or say the number of Rams that you handle.
But again to come back to that to date that has not been an issue.
Okay.
And I recognize the market clearly isn't strong enough today to reactivate some of the stacked rigs that you have and the Voyager for example in the Gulf of Mexico but if we look out a year given where commodity prices are the recovery in the Gulf would you be surprised if you still had 4 rigs stacked and then can you just comment on which one you think is the best candidate to come back? I would say the 2 in the Gulf of Mexico would be our    they're not facing the amount of modifications necessary that we feel on the 2 in Asia.
So it's just magnitude of dollars and you've got Mexico as a potential market for those units.
And really if you look at the Gulf of Mexico we have the Ocean Saratoga there our only [ph] mid water unit Transocean may be taking a rig out.
So there really won't be much competition there.
So it's got to come down to the demand.
And you're right to hit the issue of high oil prices.
High oil prices have traditionally brought forth more demand.
I would say the biggest issue in the Gulf of Mexico is so many people are pursuing deeper water opportunities.
So we just don't know yet who's going to operate in the mid water.
But I would think that there's an opportunity there that if you have permitting return you've already got infrastructure in the mid water you've got very high product prices and you've got lower drilling costs to get these things hooked up and developed.
So I would hope something would shake out there.
But two big things: One somebody's got to step up and do that; and two the permits have to return.
Great got it.
Thanks I appreciate all the time.
Your next question is from the line of Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Just kind of as a follow-on to the previous questions and thinking about your fleet and the upgrades that you've done over time are there any rigs left where you see major upgrades that make sense to become more competitive given the high oil prices maybe rigs like the Saratoga or the General for example? As we said today we're attracted by the low capital costs of new equipment in Korea.
And so that forecloses a lot of things.
Our engineering group continues to look and see where we can bring stuff up a notch or two and earn a return.
But I don't see significant kind of upgrades as we've done in the past where say a Monarch or Endeavor will take a less-than-2 000 foot unit and put it out to 10 000 feet with modern quarters and modern drilling equipment and all that stuff.
You're just better off we think going to Korea or Singapore to build something new.
Sure.
Larry thanks for that.
And then along those lines you guys have been very good allocators of capital making investments when the timing is right.
Now with this third option pending how do you view that as far as allocating more capital at this time in the cycle? As you mentioned equipment prices are cheap but are there any concerns that you guys having about kind of putting all your chips on the table here at this point or are you looking at it that way at all? I'd say that was one of the many ways that we're looking out -- also looking at these capital costs may be as low as they're going to get and the potential out there in deep water is significant around the world with many many customers.
And so there's a lot to be said for reasons that we would exercise that option.
But we're going to let it -- we're going to keep it in place as long as we can.
Great that's it for me thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Larry can you talk about the Endeavor and what your hopes and aspirations are for after Burullus mid-year? I'm going to turn that over to marketing.
Michael? Ian as the report stated we've got an option on the Endeavor which at this time we feel like we have a good chance of exercising.
So that would take it out for another 8 months or so.
We've seen a lot of interest in the Endeavor there in the Med.
It's not a matter of that not having interest it's really a highly sought-after rig there.
But with that being the case we think Burullus is probably interested in keeping that rig for a while.
Okay.
And when it says price that's the same price that we see mid-220s? No I think...
It's higher but it's still in the twos.
Yes.
Yes it's in high 2s.
The was part of the deal that we cut when we [indiscernible] wanted to get the rig out of the Gulf.
Your friends at Noble were pretty bullish about the jack up market globally tightening on their call a little while ago and I wonder what your perspectives are with regard to standard jack ups seeing improved demand in your interest of operation.
I guess I would say we've generally seen more demand than we probably had 6 months ago but it's certainly hasn't bust out yet on the rigs that we're operating.
I mean we've got 2 -- Egypt that will be tied up for a while and we've got 1 in Thailand is one that we're    it has near term availability that we're marketing.
And we've got an idle rig in the Med [Mediterranean].
It's just a very poor location for it.
So that's probably the one that we'll look at relocating somewhere.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question is from the line of Doug Becker with Bank of America.
I was just hoping to get your thoughts on the Brazilian market in general and specifically the pulled 1 500 meter tender and the 3 000 meter marketing query what your expectations are there.
Yes Doug on the 1 500 meter inquiry there was some procedural issues there that made Petrobras pull back on that.
But we're very confident that they're going to come back out with a similar tender and try to fill those slot and we've continued to see that demand probably a couple or 3 rigs at least with that tender is what my expectations would be.
On the 3 000 meter that's a marketing inquiry where it's more aimed towards the pre salt.
Again we think they're going to take a couple of rigs there and we're very positive on Brazil.
We continue to see the market there.
It's just a matter of procedure and getting through the various processes and tendering processes they have to take the rigs.
But every day we see more demand as they make announcements and we're very high on Brazil.
And then I think it's pretty clear why the Epoch was stacked.
What do you make of a Transocean stacking a number of semis? Does that give any indication of how they see the market? You know I can't really guess.
But when you look at a fleet you're talking about their older semis that I    any of the issues that we're facing with required investment to keep them competitive are not unique to us should be clustering around most rigs of that age.
So that would be my guess but that's all it is.
Fair enough.
And then just a quick one for Gary.
If the option's exercised and another rig is being built is there a potential for another one time benefit to the tax rate? No.
No the decision here was one time and we cleared everything out with that.
Fair enough thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Janice Rudd with Pritchard Capital.
LLC</strong> Just to clarify do you have a CapEx number for the first quarter and did that include all the down payments that you needed to make? Yes that was all the down payments.
We paid approximately $310 million between $300 million and $310 million.
And then on maintenance capital we incurred about $45 million in the first quarter.
LLC</strong> Great thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Arun Jayaram with Crédit Suisse.
Larry I just wanted to discuss your philosophy regarding fleet renewal.
Historically in this space offshore drillers such as yourself have built rigs when conditions were getting better in kind of distinct periods.
I was wondering if as you think about fleet renewal could we go to a situation where you do - announce a couple of rigs every year and you methodically look at renewing the fleet rather than these distinct periods like we saw in '96 '97 '98 and things like that? So just maybe your philosophy regarding fleet renewal going forward.
Well I mean as you know the return on capital employed records that we have goes back 10 years.
And so the way we're able to pursue that is to constantly look at what it costs us to put money to work and what the prospects are.
So a phased 10 year plan where we did something like that might make a lot of sense but it'd be only something you would see in retrospect.
We're not going to commit and say we're going to go on a 10 year plan everybody needs to be prepared for one rig a year because I think we'll maintain that -- do our best to maintain our capital allocation best if we do that constantly gauging the market.
For instance here if we exercise this option in a very short period of time we will collect [ph] $1.6 billion or $1.7 billion to work in improving the fleet at this one time.
I got you.
Second question Larry and I don't know if you can answer this or not but there's a pretty detailed description in the Pride proxy a lot of people suggested that maybe DO at some point was interested in Pride.
I was just wondering if you could comment on your thoughts on M&amp;A and consolidation going forward.
Well we believe that the benefits of the M&amp;A accrue to everybody in the space because you have fewer bidders out there.
But at the same time it's not like we're going to consolidate down to 2 or 3 entities because you've seen few barriers to entry.
There's a number of folks out there that are now competing in ultra-deep water with vessels.
So that's hard to say.
And then the acquisition 101 in this business is that there's very little premium that you can pay because there's very little cost savings to be had by combining 2 fleets together.
So to me it's just very opportunistic.
Oftentimes the combined entities are in a great shape but if you go back and look one side or the other the shareholders had to take some value reduction to get the transaction done it seems to me.
Right.
And the last question is for Gary.
Gary I think your previous full year 2011 operating cost guidance was around $1.5 billion.
Any changes to that number or are we at the same place as we were 90 days ago? No at this point we're still at that $1.5 billion.
We'll have slight amount of savings from the Epoch not working but it's going to be lost in rounding.
As I said we're going to be under -- below the average in these first two quarters and the next two quarters we will definitely -- the third and fourth we will be above the average number one.
Costs normally tend to increase in the second half of the year.
You place your budgets you order equipment prepare to do the work in the first half you do it in the second half.
So that normally drives cost up.
But then when all of the downtime from the surveys being second-half loaded this year we'll get hit with that also.
So the $1.5 billion is still our best guess.
And the lower tax rate was just driven by the new builds and just a reassessment of where you thought the earnings was coming from? Well yes and the new builds and the tax planning that we did that's just $15 million.
So that's not that much on an overall basis.
The biggest thing is where we believe our earnings are going to come from whether it's on our domestic -- our rigs that are in our domestic structure versus international.
And then internationally the rate can vary greatly and it suits [ph] us as we continue to get more clarity on where the fleet's going to be.
Okay thanks a lot.
Your next question is from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
I wanted to ask you about the very substantial jack up in tenders that are coming out of Mexico here recently and your rigs that might be suitable for that including the Columbia Titan Spartan.
Also I want to ask you about the price ceilings that are stipulated in those tenders.
How do you feel about price ceilings? I'll let Marketing comment on that who's much closer to the.
.
.
Robin no it's been very positive as far as the number of tenders going out [ph].
I think we're up to 15 or so jack up tenders currently.
With respect to assets we've got several assets that we would consider.
You have some here in the Gulf that are working that could possibly go down there and also then we have an international asset say like the King that it has a mobe to it but it may have a fit to working with PEMEX.
So we see these opportunities as good opportunities to put some of our rigs to work.
With respect to the price ceilings obviously we're not    that's not the way we like to bid rigs.
But since it seems to be their process at the moment we're in discussions constantly about what that right number should be and where it should be and I think they're seeing that through their responses to some of their tenders.
So that's continuing to be a developing thing but that's the process they use at the moment.
Again we're very excited about Mexico and the opportunities to put some rigs to work down there.
And also they had    it was 15 jack ups [ph] there was one or was it 2 semi? There's currently 1 semi out there a 1000 foot tender for about 930 days starting in September.
So that's a very interesting opportunity possibly for one of our mid water rigs in the Gulf of Mexico or somewhere else.
So again we're starting to see these flow more which has turned positive for us.
Okay.
And just one other clarification.
You mentioned on the 1 500 meter tender in Brazil that there were some procedural issues that led to the cancellation.
There were some signs also that Petrobras felt the prices of the 10 rigs that were offered were a little on the high side.
At least they were compared perhaps to what they signed the Ocean Courage and Valor for last year.
Was your understanding that that was part of the reason for the cancellation? From our view no.
We don't have any indications that that was the reason.
We understand it was more procedural.
And it will be interesting to see where the 3 000 meters come out and I think that will give us a better indication of where the market is down there.
Okay thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC</strong> You all had mentioned the rigs the jack ups in the U.S.
Gulf as being candidates for Mexico.
Would you potentially abandon the Gulf and would rigs going down there potentially include Spartan that's now cold-stacked? Well the nice thing about Mexico is they give you a fixed number of days most of which are fairly long much longer than we're able to get in the Gulf of Mexico so -- the U.S.
Gulf.
So we would under the circumstances abandon the Gulf as you put it and move down there.
I doubt though that demand would be such that we will totally remove our rigs from the Gulf of Mexico that we would end up keeping some here.
So on the margin you've got to look at what the rates are in the Gulf of Mexico to determine how many rigs we work.
LLC</strong> And if the demand was there would all 3 of those plus the King have the proper specifications for working there? Your competition had mentioned something about the increase in specs over the recent years that PEMEX was not looking for.
Well the specs have gone up and down and certainly the King and the Titan would be the first 2 rigs that we have there most.
The Titan has been there before and the King we're comfortable that the spec would quickly meet Mexico.
The Spartan would be a little bit more of a push for us to have that rig work down there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One more quick one if I can.
The cash flow outlook for you guys is very compelling in 2012.
How do you all look at potentially increasing your dividend? Can you talk about that a little bit? Well as we've said in the past at each dividend the board evaluates a number of factors in setting that dividend.
So it would depend upon what's present.
If you look in the past our increases in dividends have generally come at a point in time where we've had increases in day rates and although day rates are moving a little bit today I don't think they've significantly moved.
So that would be one thing I would look at.
But again everything's up.
We recognize that dividends are an important part of our ability to return value to shareholders and looking in the rear view mirror we will have paid $28 in total dividends since we began our special dividend program I guess 4 years ago 2006.
So that's something that we're committed to but we do say that will be set at each quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Joseph Triepke with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> Larry a question for you.
Last quarter you had discussed higher costs in Brazil on demand for skilled labor.
I was wondering if you foresee any set of a bottleneck on skilled labor globally could potentially accelerate cost inflation as we deliver new rigs here as an industry.
And sort of on that subject do you think the potential role of experienced crews from older rigs to newer equipment could help to kind of curb sort of a global inflationary outlook for labor? Yes you're right that there is a huge demand for skilled labor.
As I addressed the events that occurred a year ago I said the number one thing is the making sure that we got procedures and personnel in place that can continually apply prudent drilling operations to deliver safe and environmentally non risky results.
And so that does come down to people we've recently given very large raises we've established retention policies for critical skills.
So to some degree there will be people coming off of older rigs.
The biggest thing though is we've got to attract new personnel into the industry and provide training and retention opportunities for that.
I think we're in a world right now where jobs are in high demand.
These are very high paying jobs.
But we need to plan down the road.
It's not something that we just run an ad in the paper and then the skill set up appears.
And so I believe that us and the various other drilling contractors are engaged in efforts to increase training and to source personnel from around the world.
And that's one of the things that just frustrates me so much about the slowdown the moratorium the lack of permits the lack of clarity in the Gulf of Mexico is that if I don't have any rigs in the Gulf of Mexico where I can train these people I'm not going to hire untrained Americans and put them on an airplane and fly them to some other location.
That just does not make any sense.
So I would look in the absence of something stepping up that we will begin sourcing a number of our personnel from overseas.
And so you're going to be taking these high paid American jobs and seeding them overseas.
And as best I can tell that definitely is not having any impact.
No one's really recognizing that in the government.
And when we and others go down that path it's going to be very difficult to reverse it.
So that was my soapbox today.
LLC</strong> Thanks Larry that's excellent color as well.
One unrelated follow up if I may for Gary.
If I could ask you to kind of look at into the crystal ball understanding it's very early for any kind of guidance can you give us any indication at this point as to whether 2012 and 2013 are sort of up down or flat relative to 2010 and 2011 in terms of yard time and surveys on your fleet as it stands now? Yes 2010    I'm sorry 2012 will be -- we'll still have as many rigs in the shipyard as we did in '11.
We're looking at 9 or 10 at this point.
So yes we're going to have a large downtime in '12 probably fairly significant in '13 again and then we go down for the next 2 years.
LLC</strong> Okay very helpful thanks.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
We're going to return to work and try to continue to deliver the results that will be pleasing to our shareholders.
Thank you all for participating in today's Diamond Offshore Drilling's First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Drilling Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Les Van Dyke Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Good morning.
And with me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Moe Plaisance Vice President of Marketing; and Michael Acuff Vice President of Marketing.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates that drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Given these concerns investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
The company expressly disclaims any obligation to release publicly any updates to forward-looking statements to reflect any change in the company's expectations or any changes in events conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
[Operator Instructions] And with that I'll turn the meeting over to Larry.
Thank you and good morning.
We're pleased with our results today of $1.92.
Point out that that includes in it a $10 million write-off related to a deferred mobilization on the Ocean Monarch that was resolved with our customer at the point in time that we signed the commitments on 2 of our new drillships.
So that was a $10 million write-off.
About between $0.04 and $0.05 of earnings is included in that number.
The positives for the quarter that we would focus on was we had almost all-time low amounts of downtime within our fleet.
There were only 24 days covering one rig where we had a rig in the shipyard.
It's with the Ocean Yatzy in Brazil doing some thruster work whereas in the ordinary course of business there will be multiple rigs with many more days.
In fact in all likelihood our schedule shows that there will be multiple rigs in Q3 down for planned maintenance.
And on the other side the thing that we do work to control we had a near-record low unanticipated equipment downtime of only 65 days here in this quarter.
It was down from 72 in the quarter before which I'm also pleased with.
So we got a nice trend going in that direction and that obviously is something that we can control and generate more the revenue and have more of it drop to the bottom line.
Although costs were up sequentially quarter-over-quarter I'm pleased with our efforts and where we're spending money.
We did start at the beginning of the quarter an offshore rig raise which is reflected in there.
And we've also put in place a retention program for selected employees on selected rigs the ones that are under the most demand the highly skilled rigs covering the newer rigs.
And so those costs are in there.
We would expect those to come forward back [ph] but again we're pleased with that.
The other big thing is the amount of backlog that we were able to add and all of that sort of came together in almost a 10-day period.
So we were really excited about that.
But the disclosures on the press release cover $1 billion.
There were some other minor ordinary course of business adjustments that really put the number of $1.1 billion of additional backlog.
We're burning.
And in the quarter we burned right under $900 million of revenue which in effect is backlog being burned off.
So we were able to certainly replace that and that ignores the $1.8 billion of backlog that we added through the 2 new drillships and I'll come to that.
But in the details of the rigs that we added additional time on I think most significantly it was down in Brazil with our customer Petrobras one of our new builds the Ocean Valor had initially signed the contract at 3 years with Petrobras at $450 000 a day.
We had included at that point in time our provision that would allow them to extend that to 5 years in return for a $10 000 prospective decrease in the day rate and they elected to exercise that covering the Ocean Valor.
We had a similar provision in the fifth generation Ocean Baroness rig which we located down there where they extended that for an additional 2 years for a similar rate reduction.
And I think that's significant and I think it points out the demand that Petrobras has in the near term.
And of course these extensions really don't kick in for 2 years or so.
So it covers some years that -- '13 '14.
So it's not just near team but intermediate term.
They've got lots of discoveries down there.
They need these type of large rigs to develop those so that's a net positive.
At the same time we had an opportunity to take the Ocean Yorktown an intermediate rig and put it into a bid in Mexico.
We really didn't have another rig in the immediate area that could fulfill that job.
And because it would be to Petrobras' mutual benefit to relieve them of some near-term commitments they elected we negotiated to free up the Ocean Yorktown and move the Ocean Yorktown time to another mid-water rig the Ocean Concord.
Also in Brazil our good customer OGX put one-year extensions on their larger rigs the Ocean Star and the Ocean Quest.
So significant developments in our biggest market.
We continue to have 16 rigs operating in that market and with all kind of backlog.
So we're pleased with that.
Also in Mexico we are seeing a movement off of frankly some low-level activity that we've seen for the past year or 2.
And we have 3 in addition to the Ocean Yorktown arriving we've got 3 jack-up jobs there.
A slight extension on one of the existing rigs a longer-term extension on the Ocean Summit.
And then the Ocean Titan which has been working in the Gulf of Mexico and was frankly down due to permitting issues we were able to get a 777-day job there at a little over $100 000 a day.
Now we’ll have to do some modifications to the Ocean Titan to get it qualified to go down in Mexico.
The Summit is now going to have been there for some period of time.
But we think that will pay out very quickly.
Then on our fleet status report that we released we also indicated smaller extensions which we didn't include on the press release.
The Ocean Nomad extended in the North Sea puts that rig to work through the winter.
And the Ocean Valiant continued to tack on time in West Africa.
West Africa is certainly an exciting market for there.
One of the big events on the horizon is that our Ocean Confidence in moving on location for Cobalt for a highly anticipated well down there.
So we will be obviously giving any updates on what's happening there.
But we're there participating and we certainly think there's a lot of upside in West Africa.
To go back to what's probably old news what happened earlier in the quarter where we took both of our first 2 drillships that we had ordered and signed a combined 10 years worth of work 5 years per vessel at rate that generated $1.8 billion of backlog and I think everybody can do the math can see that those are nice rates.
And that excludes mobilization.
We don't know where the rigs were -- are going.
In all likelihood that mobilization will be also rolled into the dayrate contractually and certainly from an accounting standpoint that's the way that our rig would work.
And the final thing I would point out would be the continuation of our dividend policy.
As indicated in the press release we renewed our special dividend at the same rate that's been established now I believe for 4 quarters combined with our regular dividend.
The 2 dividends combined looking back to 2006 have paid out just a hair under $29 in value to shareholders and again continues to reflect our belief that dividends are an important component of returning value to shareholders.
And I always tell investors that we meet that you can't just look at our share price compared with the competition and how that may perform but also that you need to keep in mind depending on how long you've held it.
So at least some portion and hopefully for long-term shareholders all of the portion of that dividend just under $29 of value that you receive.
So that concludes my opening remarks.
And I will now turn it over to Gary Krenek to go through a little bit more of the details of our financials.
Okay.
Thanks Larry.
For the second quarter the most of the line items on the income statement came within expectations of what we expected what we had talked about in our previous conference call.
The one line item Larry already alluded to that was slightly above was our contract drilling expense.
We had guided to between $360 million to $375 million is what we said in the last conference call and we came in at $388 million.
As Larry said the biggest component of that overrun was the $10 million worth of deferred mobe and preparation cost on the Monarch that we took in a noncash charge for in the second quarter because of early termination of the contract on that rig.
I remind everybody that when we do -- when we mobe rigs we defer any costs occurring when that happens and amortize it over the length of the contract.
So that was a $10 million charge.
We also had some weakening of the U.S.
dollar slight weakening for some of our unhedged positions and foreign denominated expenditures.
That cost us somewhere between $5 million and $7 million on expected and then slightly higher because some of the labor increased as Larry talked about.
So if you take all of those into account and adjust our actual numbers we actually come right in the middle of the guidance that we had put out last quarter.
Other than that that’s it.
Everything came in pretty much what we had expected.
Looking forward to next quarter and the rest of 2011 I think the biggest thing is again Larry talked about it is the downtime on our rigs that we expect in the third and the fourth quarters.
Again you can look at our rigs status report that we released this morning to get the details of that.
But just briefly we have 4 rigs that will be undergoing a 5-year survey in the third quarter.
We have 3 rigs in the fourth quarter undergoing surveys.
We have 3 rigs the Yorktown Monarch and Titan that will be mobing from one major area of location to another during the third and fourth quarters.
They will have downtime.
And finally the Ocean Clipper will be down for a few days in the third quarter and the entire fourth quarter for some contractual upgrades that we had agreed to do with Petrobras 1.5 years 2 years ago when we extended the Clipper contract.
We had been waiting for delivery of equipment and also for a convenient time for both us and Petrobras that will take that rig out of service and that time is now coming up.
If everything goes according to plan and we start when we're supposed to at the end of the third quarter we will be back on contract by January 1 2012.
So this downtime for our rigs we had very good downtime in the first half of the year.
It just so happened that most of it is going to be back-end loaded in the second half of the year with costs to some on both the revenue line and will also affect our expense lines.
Looking at contract drilling expense for the third quarter.
Again we'll incur our daily normal -- normal daily operating costs that we foretold everyone earlier in the year.
To that you need to add some $22 million worth of amortized mobe costs that we’ll record in the quarter.
The 4 survey costs each of those rigs will be somewhere between $4 million and $8 million each.
We have 2 jack-ups and 2 semi-submersibles.
The U.S.
dollar we're expecting to remain consistent.
So you need to add another $6 million to $8 million to our normal cost to that.
And finally our major expense cost for our major projects.
It will increase somewhere in the $7 million to $10 million range in Q3 and then following it also in Q4.
And as we've said before this is normal.
When we do our budgets in the fall of any given year it takes the first quarter and part of the second quarter for us to write our AFEs order our equipment wait on delivery.
All of that stuff comes in and we actually spend the money and record it in the second half of the year.
So if you add up those daily -- regular daily costs and the additional items that I gave you that should come up to a third quarter contract drilling expense of somewhere between $395 million to $410 million.
Again I caution everybody that’s the contract drilling expense only.
That does not include reimbursable costs.
We do not budget for reimbursable costs.
If you look at that the reimbursable costs are virtually offset dollar-for-dollar with reimbursable revenues.
And the revenue guidance that we give on our rig status report excludes any type of reimbursable revenues.
So when you're looking at -- trying to project our earnings in the future you really need to net those 2 lines out which we do.
For the rest of the income statement line items the guidance remains virtually the same as it had in the last quarter.
G&amp;A we expect it to continue to be at $17 million to $18 million per quarter.
Depreciation $101 million to $104 million per quarter.
It will be slightly up in the third quarter simply because there's 92 days the next quarter versus 91 days in Q2.
Interest expense remains at about $22 million per quarter.
Our effective tax rate at 21% to 24% which is the same as we had guided up previously.
And finally maintenance capital remains at $320 million for this year.
Additionally we had some $475 million of down payments we'd made already in the first half of the year on the 3 new build drillships that we did.
Just for accounting purposes that $475 million is not considered capital expenditures this year but rather are -- is recorded in the balance sheet as a long-term deposit on our new builds.
That will be flipped around when we actually take delivery of the rigs and will come out of the deposit account into our fixed assets.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Okay.
So I think we're ready for questions.
We'll let the marketing folks say their piece during the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Larry on the Noble call preceding yours they were cautioning a lot about more systemic downtime for the industry because of less tolerance for BOP anomalies et cetera.
Have you seen a change on your fleet with that? And do you expect it going forward? Yes we think that is a factor.
It didn't hit us in this quarter.
We are trying to take steps to minimize that.
We've seen instances where we think in the past we might not have had to take some period of downtime.
We've had a little downtime here going into Q3 already on BOP stacks.
It just hadn't hit us to that point yet.
But certainly in our future projections and whatnot we're building in a little bit more downtime on bigger deeper water rigs for BOP differences.
We don't have a sense yet on what changes may happen in our mid-water fleet.
Okay.
Follow-up question.
What would you say is the direction of the mid-water market right now? Because it seems to be that it's been sort of getting slightly better but not with a lot of -- I guess the emphasis is on slightly and we have seen some plusses and minuses and we've seen now Petrobras putting their backlog on the fewer rigs onto one rig with you today.
So can you really call a clear direction in mid-water right now? Do you think that we're doing well to hold flat? Or do you think we're definitely improving over the next year or what? Our marketing guys will comment on that Ian this is Michael here.
I would say you're correct.
We continue to see a fairly flat to slightly improving.
Again back to your slightly comment.
With Petrobras we had an opportunity to add backlog on that mid-water fleet at similar margins.
With PEMEX it was a good opportunity.
And they had some short-term drilling schedule issues that was able to benefit them also.
But in general as you look around the world I think it's still a fairly flat market.
No pricing power to say.
And we're continuing to be somewhat positive on it.
The North Sea we're seeing work coming through the wintertime.
We're getting that visibility now and securing that work.
But to say that we're seeing a big uptick we're just not at this moment.
The next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Just wanted to along the same lines of kind of more downtime and unexpected on your third quarter estimate of the number of days is that kind of forecasted somewhat conservatively? Or is there a significant over/under kind of range on that number of days that you've indicated? And I guess 5-year survey could turn up a lot of new projects that perhaps weren't anticipated.
That’s kind of the gist of my question.
This is Gary Robin.
The number of days is our best estimate.
We have a pretty good idea coming up this quickly on us.
We’ve already had the engineers out there looked at it.
You can always run into unexpected items no doubt.
But we're fairly confident with these numbers of days.
Now can they go over an additional 10 days? Sure.
We can find things.
We have had times when we've got caught by weather just trying to get in and out of the shipyard.
So again it's a best guess.
We're comfortable with the third and the fourth quarter.
Could go over a little bit.
We'll see.
What becomes very difficult is when we try to give some estimates for next year and the downtime for 2012 before we do those engineering studies.
Those dates can certainly shift in the future.
Right.
Okay.
A follow-up then.
I just appreciate your perspective on the North Sea market post the U.K.
tax law change.
And the Gulf of Mexico permitting pace as you expected going forward and the rig its impact on the deepwater rig market there.
I guess the North Sea we haven't really seen a big move one way or the other.
Offsetting that tax increase has got to be the positive spread on grant over WTI where we get interest and people that talk about wanting to drill they don't really always share all their thoughts and processes.
But I think our sense is that the oil price balances out those taxes in some instances.
Beyond that it really gets into production and dates that they had leases and things that aren't always clear to us and they change a little bit.
Permitting in the Gulf of Mexico I think has picked up.
We've seen more permits being issued.
They primarily seem to be issued toward the deeper end of the spectrum rather than the mid-water.
But the mid-water fleet is so reduced now.
I mean you've got really our Ocean Saratoga which are coming up to a survey.
And you got our Ocean Victory which will service that.
And that's it.
Everything else is a deepwater market.
So it's not taking place in a world where there's still the same number of rigs so that you can measure things.
Certainly I think when we talk to customers in those markets they seem to be very optimistic that things are picking up.
I don't know.
Moe even the tone at the government regulatory agencies seems to be they're getting a little more certainty.
I think it seems to be getting more upbeat that they're looking at and it's being focused on the deepwater to get things back and we’ve had a couple of customers looking out towards the future and maybe having to move some rigs back.
But there's some positive...
So I guess the summary is the tone is improving and they are more for permits going out to Noble [ph].
But we're not near where were previous to that.
And ultimately I believe that the market has to have permits stacked up in their pocket because no one knows exactly when a well’s going to end.
It could be declared a no-show and they want to move off and they need to be able to move this equipment rapidly and not go through another process.
So we've got a ways to go.
Next question comes from the line of Judd Bailey with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> First a follow-up.
Gary I apologize that I missed this but did you give any fourth quarter cost guidance or just third quarter? Just third quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Directionally should we think about that as a similar level? Is there any reason it would go down or up meaningfully from that third quarter level? Meaningfully no.
We'll have rigs filling the shipyards to survey incurring those costs and everything else.
So I'm not going to make or give any type of guidance.
But nothing meaningful up or down.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's fair.
And my follow-up is on kind of some of your deepwater rigs like the Valiant which picked up the contract in West Africa.
Can you give a little more color on what you're seeing in that market? It seems like rates have perked up a little bit there.
Are you seeing any more term contract opportunities? Or is it still predominantly kind of more well-to-well-type stuff? Yes Judd.
On West Africa we're really positive on that market.
We're seeing starting to extend on the term a bit.
We're starting to see some 1- 2-year terms.
We're definitely seeing some 6-month opportunities out there.
So we believe it's a positive market and we continue to see that the next few years as we see it today.
So we're excited about the position of the Valiant.
The Confidence has had a lot of inquiries also while it's over there.
So in general everything is positive in West Africa at the moment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And is timing more of an issue now for operators? Are they willing to pay a premium to get that type of rig today because there's maybe not other rigs available? They're willing to pay up to get something more immediate now? Is that what's going on? I think we're seeing of that.
That's true.
Because like you say the availability is just not -- there’s not as much of a surplus as in other markets.
So yes that would be a true statement in certain situations.
The next question comes from the line of Geoff Kieburtz with Weeden.
LP</strong> You noted at the outset that the rapid pace at which you added backlog do you attach significance to that? Is that indicative of a general trend in the market? Or is this just coincidence that a bunch of discussions kind of came to fruition at the same time? Well in the subsequent 10-day period we didn't add to this [ph].
So I don’t think you can trend it out.
But it seemed to sort of come together but there was a general theme there of people looking forward and having to grab capacity.
Mexico's got issues with declining production everybody knows about that.
They've been going through a couple of years of bid processes where they've not been getting the equipment that they need.
So I would say there's that common theme with down in Brazil where huge not decline but huge anticipated upswings in available prospects to be developed.
And it means that Petrobras needs to secure continued rigs to go down there and this was I think a pretty good indication of that.
And with Petrobras they're looking by extending existing 2-year contracts that we're not even one year into in the case of new build Valor.
That really -- that shows some advanced planning more so than I think we were seeing down in Mexico.
And then OGX at the same time I think it's more of the same.
OGX is a little bit looking -- dealing with stuff a little bit closer to what's going on just because of the size of their company versus Petrobras.
But so I think all those common themes come together.
But we didn't finish it saying "Oh boy wait for the next 20 days." LP</strong> And I understand that what you're saying.
I guess my follow-up question is has this rapid pace of fixtures and extensions and so on had any noticeable effect on your conversations with other customers in other parts of the road? Or is it too early to really make any judgment on that? Geoff it's Michael here.
I believe what we're seeing and the pace has been in the recent quarter or the activity in the recent quarter is people are really starting to position themselves for '12 and '13.
We're seeing that more inquiries.
And it seems you can -- it's a noticeable pickup to where especially in deepwater we're seeing everyone trying to make sure they have the capacity they need come next year and looking out in the '13.
So I think in general the theme is that though this flurry happened here in Brazil and in Mexico there's still everyone still positioning themselves and we're seeing an increase there.
LP</strong> Okay.
And if I could shift it to the downtime Larry.
I think you mentioned you were quite pleased with the unplanned downtime performance in the first and second quarter.
Is that the result of any specific program or initiatives that have been put in place prior to that? Do you have a sense that that can be sustained kind of consistently going forward? Well we have -- we didn’t just flip the switch and put something in place.
We've got a number of preventive maintenance programs and programs designed to concentrate replace BOP parts when we get an opportunity and those kind of things all of which is designed to reduce downtime.
So I would say it's just incremental improvements in those programs.
And I'm comfortable that we've got good programs going forward.
I would not bet that we could continue to sustain this.
We talked earlier on the call about the issue of increased scrutiny on BOPs and control systems around that will naturally result in a little bit more downtime there.
LP</strong> Okay.
All right.
So the net effect is it the greater scrutiny is almost certainly going to cost more unplanned downtime? Than you would have had without that.
But we're not just sitting there taking it.
We've got all kind of steps involved upping our spares we're putting dual stacks on the new drillships that we've got out there which should reduce that.
The next question comes from the line of John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just given the backlog growth we've seen and the fact that 2 of the 3 new builds are on contract any appetite for additional new builds? We think that continuing to add to our fleet via new builds makes a lot of sense.
That is we had purchased new builds as everybody knows back in '09 Courage and Valor and we shifted into the contracting with the shipyards.
But I can't say that we have a plan that will yield x number within so much time.
But we continue to evaluate it evaluate the use the cash look at our contractual situation.
We were very very pleased with being able to put 2 units on long-term contract this early.
And I think that certainly improves our outlook as you indicated in there but we're not at a point of saying… Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe along those same lines.
As far as committing capital to Epoch now that you have the backlog there is there any kind of commitment there also? Or should it remain stacked? The Epoch -- the Epoch I'm sorry the rig.
We haven't made a decision on Epoch.
We've got 4 floaters that are idle 2 in the Gulf of Mexico 2 in the Far East.
But we are looking at those and we continue to look at those on some sort of upgrade plan and return to service for those rigs.
They had reached the point that there was going to be substantial amount of money put into them and we weren't quite sure where the market was heading with everything overhanging it.
For the 2 in the Gulf of Mexico you've got the permitting problems that cover those.
But those are -- that is an asset in an upside that exists within this company.
As you mentioned the Epoch or the Bounty being upgraded and coming out right because they’re next door to Singapore where you would naturally do that.
And then the Voyager and New Era in the Gulf of Mexico would also be candidates.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just last question just on the 4 Brazil extensions any material CapEx associated with those? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Wicklund with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> It's actually Matt Conlan here.
In Brazil the OGX extensions you've reported $20 000 to $30 000 bump but -- to the prior disclosed rates of 2012.
But the rate bumps also took place for 2012.
So am I reading this right that we can sort of infer there's been a $40 000 to $50 000 dayrate increase projection for the 2013 term? Yes I think as you blend the rates and see the projection Matt that's correct.
LLC</strong> Okay that's pretty encouraging.
Let's clarify.
Say your question one more time.
Let's clarify and make sure we're speaking on the same thing.
LLC</strong> Sure.
So the Star and the Quest not only got $20 000 to $30 000 dayrate bumps for 2013 but also for 2012 versus what the contracts were previously stated out on previous fleet status reports? Okay well at the same time we took a rig the Lexington working for OGX which was at a previously established a market rate in the $300 000s which is difficult above market today.
So we lowered that moved some time onto the Quest and Star.
So -- and that's the way accounting works.
You’ve got to average all that data but the economics of the deal was that we did receive -- this Quest and Star.
But that we did receive an increase on the Star.
But other than that everything was revenue neutral.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And just an accounting question.
On the $475 million of long-term deposit on new builds are you able to capitalize interest against that? No.
The next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram with Crédit Suisse.
Larry I wanted to get your color on what you're seeing at the PEMEX.
Obviously PEMEX at a time when the jack-up market was less robust was attempting to try to upgrade the capabilities of their fleet.
And obviously given the improvement in the jack-up market we haven't seen a lot of bid activity.
Hence they face a pretty large deficit in terms of demand.
Do you see any opportunities -- obviously you have 4 stacked rigs in the Gulf of Mexico for them to switch tact [ph] then and maybe go down market? And maybe look at mat rigs again? Obviously with the accident a few years ago I'm not sure if that's possible.
I'm just trying to see if you could give us a sense of what PEMEX may do given the fact they’re unlikely to meet their demand requirements on the jack-up side? Well the movement today has been from -- their initial desire was for newer rigs.
And I'm not sure they’ve moved that much down market.
They're now seeking older 300- 350-foot rigs that will do their work and substitute for that.
I don't think mat rigs from a water-depth capacity from a hook load capacity from all the other limitations that exist from there are their preferred assets.
And we're certainly not counting on the mats suddenly having a renaissance and going down to Mexico.
Fair enough.
Switching gears Larry obviously you have a lot of backlog earnings.
In Brazil they have a tender out that again will look at more rigs.
What is your thoughts on assessing the potential of adding more rigs into Brazil? Or is there a saturation point where just from an overall portfolio standpoint where you wouldn't want to get much bigger -- the old putting all your eggs into one basket? Just given your -- just want to get your color on that.
Well we got one rig coming out.
Then we would certainly I think have room for another one.
I can't rule that out obviously.
It's a big active market.
We're a big participant there with 2 big customers.
And we would like to -- it's a market we're comfortable with.
We'd like to add rigs there and we're not going to rule that out but you're right in the back of your mind.
Our goal has always been to spread our rigs around the world with a number of customers just so that we're diversified from any of the risk that might come to one customer or to one region.
The next question comes from the line of Scott Burk with Canaccord.
I just want to follow up on the backlog discussion that you had.
Is there any kind of plans for that? Specifically if -- are you trying to make sure you got funding for all your new builds or do you have additional plans to maybe order some other rigs or maybe increase the dividend? What are your thoughts there? I think backlog is a milepost that people should be interested in in this business.
It shows how much your earnings can go forward and it does have a dividend component.
But there's no overt signal as to what's going to happen with dividends just because we're adding the backlog.
Okay.
I wanted also to follow up on the rigs that you have stacked.
Exactly how much capital would be needed to bring those back or maybe if you could give a range for the 8 rigs? It varies.
The Ocean Bounty it went down has some engine issues so that one’s on the higher side.
It all depends on what we want to come out of it with.
We don't necessarily want to come out with a 3 000-foot unit.
We may want to have a 5 000-foot unit at which [ph] timing brings it up.
Other rigs that we stacked the Ocean Spartan here in the Gulf of Mexico due to permit issues and it just really needs a special survey.
So you're going to be on the low end on something like that.
And everything else is in between.
Okay.
But nothing that would be prohibitive to actually bring these out within a few months if needed I guess except maybe the Bounty? Well again it depends on -- if the market says yes I want 2 000-foot rigs and I want to pay $300 000 a day for them then we can get those out pretty well.
But I suspect many of these rigs we would like to improve them.
We're going to enhance their lives.
And so we'll do more than just the minimum.
And then we'd like some enhanced capabilities which also it's time and money.
Okay.
And the one kind of question a little more broad.
Day rates seem to be stabilizing for most rig classes especially for premium rigs and rates seem to be actually trending up a bit.
But if you look at overall operating margins for the space they’re still significantly above some of the other oil services segments.
Where do you see the risk of potential margin compression for the sector coming from? Either from increased supply or more of a potential for increased OpEx? Or how do you see that trending over a multiyear period? Yes.
Yes? If supply outstrips demand that's a fundamental of this business we do see cost pressures particularly on labor and on some equipment.
I don't think it's gotten out of size.
I mean as you point out rigs that are mid-water fleet working in the North Sea that we're renewing in the low to mid-200s I mean our operating costs are such that we're still enjoying a 50% to 60% margin.
So it is a profitable business from that perspective.
It's not necessarily that profitable if you have to go out and replace all the fleet at new construction costs.
Then you would be for a lot of that.
So we think shareholders earn money by having rigs investing in a company that has a fleet of rig that they previously acquired.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
You'd commented earlier that it might make some good sense to continue adding new builds to the fleet given the broader renewal of the fleet industry-wide that we’re seeing with -- in recognizing their -- or some constraints there in terms of price your availability and so on but would you view this investment on your part as an ongoing item an ongoing capital item or just continuing to be more opportunistic and subject to what you're seeing in the market and from your own backlog standpoint? We only invest when we think it makes sense.
So we would not be in a program that says we're going to build 2 rigs a year for the next 20 years because I know market conditions will change.
It'll be really based upon all the alternatives that we're looking at.
Right.
And then from a capital structure standpoint the cash flow situation looks pretty good here in the relatively near-term certainly next say 12 18 months and you have added some backup here.
But capital commitments do jump up a good bit as you get further out.
Are you thinking about managing things proactively there and in terms of either building cash taking on some debt or is it still too early to say and you'd have to wait to see how the market would develop from a cash flow perspective? We do plan our cash needs and we'll look at them.
I mean right now we're continuing to generate cash even after paying the deposits and continuing to pay our dividends and we're in a nice cash position.
And because you earn nothing on your cash we don't really see a need for us to rush out and borrow money at this particular point in time.
But we will handle that.
I think Les we have time for one more question.
The next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia with Vertical Research.
Two things.
First it seems to me that there's a lot of sort of potential demand out there for '12 and '13.
And you go into the second half of 2011 and you'll get a lot of the operators starting to work through their budgets.
Is that -- do you think that could be a catalyst to see maybe more projects come to the front and possibly improve the near-term outlook? Because it seems like you're optimistic but sort of cautious at this point.
And I'm just trying to see if there's a transference or a catalyst in here in the second half of the year? We're optimistic but cautious.
We're seeking -- we're seeing operators looking at their projects as we spoke about earlier West Africa we've seen increases there.
We're seeing Australasia good inquiries good projects coming up with medium-term to long-term prospects.
And we're moving the Ocean Monarch to that market.
So I think we're in good shape.
This business is very fickle.
We all know that.
We’ve been around a long time.
Plan for some upside but always keep looking at the downside.
But do you think that there is a potential catalyst as people maybe -- because in an aggregate as you have more people looking at their budgets and pushing more projects like basically pushing them forward as everybody starts to realize that happening that may create a catalyst here.
I mean what you think the probability of that happening is? I'm not going to give projections on that.
But I mean there's a natural trend in the business that rigs return to work for a little bit more term that leads to opportunities to raise rates.
And then as you say then there's a catalyst that will some time occur and make things really explode.
Among the catalyst is probably what you're saying the sense from the operators that there's not going to be enough rigs to cover their needs certainly until some of the new builds arrive and maybe not even then because a lot of the deepwater activity continues to generate demand from more rigs.
You've got catalyst and Mexico's begins to take and I know they're primarily in the jack-up stage.
But still that could contribute sucking rigs out of there.
If Brazil moves and then the Gulf of Mexico if the permitting situation returns that would be huge.
The point I make again and again which is not really relevant on this call but that we in this country we’ve got 9% unemployment and this industry has the ability to employ lots of people here in the United States without subsidy and paying among the highest blue-collar wages that are out there in the world.
Our average rate in the Gulf of Mexico back when we had a number of rigs working out there is above $80 000 a day for a job where you have 6 months off.
So maybe somebody will finally decide that that's some positive step that they can take.
So lots of positive catalysts that could come about.
Okay.
And so the secondarily it seems like there's a lot of index options in the market and the rest and it seems like the average cost of the marginal new builds is probably going up because some of the incentives from the shipyards have come off.
Does that start to make that option less attractive? And maybe as you look at free cash flow make dividends more attractive going forward? I'm not sure I followed everything that you said.
But you’re talking about indexed options at shipyards to build rigs? Well I'm just saying the cost of new builds seems to be rising not falling.
Right? And so if you've sort of take a counter-cyclical approach in getting things at a good price I would imagine that the margin that makes new builds less attractive and dividends more attractive.
Am I thinking about that the right way? Yes I mean if the direction moves that the cost of new builds goes up then it would.
You’d a lower return than we would perhaps seek.
But other market conditions change.
So the cost of new builds has gone up but it certainly hasn't skyrocketed.
And it’s much less than it was at the peak of the market when it was over $700 million $800 million so.
Again thank you for all the good questions.
We had a broad range of financial market-driven questions this quarter.
And hopefully we were able to answer them.
We will talk to you next quarter and at a couple of conferences between now and then.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Drilling Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Paula.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Moe Plaisance Vice President Marketing; and Michael Acuff Vice President Marketing.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements that are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates that drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these concerns investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they're made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
After we have discussed our results we'll have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And now I will turn the meeting over to Larry.
Thank you Darren and welcome also to our third quarter conference call.
I'd like to talk just a little bit about the contracts that we've signed in the quarter.
They have been disclosed all along as we report our contract backlog every 2 weeks but it's an appropriate time to look back upon them.
And I think we summarized them in the press release that we added 14 new contracts with 18 rig years and $1.3 billion of revenue backlog.
And I think those -- really if we look at them by market I think Mexico is significant for us.
We signed 4 contracts in this period running up here to just a few days into October.
The Summit which had already been down there achieved a 2.7 year extension at a nice rate.
And then we brought 2 rigs out of Brazil the Yorktown and the Scepter.
Yorktown will be going down there.
Yorktown's a semi for 2.5 years rate in the 180s.
And then the Scepter a newly constructed jack-up which had been working in Brazil.
We had some permit issues down there and so we arranged to be released.
We'll come up here and work this end of the market hopefully while they get everything straightened out down in Brazil.
And then these 2 rigs were also joined by the Ocean Titan a 350-foot unit that had been working in the Gulf of Mexico which obtained 2.1 years of backlog.
So Mexico has been building for some time with bidding contracts out and -- but actual activity has been down.
But the ongoing depletion of their fields and the needs to get some work done have continued to push them in this direction.
And so it's been very beneficial for Diamond and I believe some our competitors as well have put a number of expected work and that's an important market.
In the North Sea we signed our 2 floaters that we have in there the Ocean Nomad and the Ocean Princess to contracts that take us through the winter.
The Nomad is working for BG and the Ocean Princess signed a 600-day approximate contract with Enquest which will start shortly.
Then in Brazil most of our backlog came from extensions to existing contracts.
Petrobras took the Ocean Valor and the Ocean Baroness contracts which had been 3-year contracts and they had an option to extend them to 5 years and they took advantage of that.
So that added quite a bit of backlog.
And then also our other good customer down there OGX put one year extensions on each of the Quest and Star.
So those 4 markets -- or 3 markets Brazil North Sea and Mexico have been very strong for us.
That really reduces our Gulf of Mexico fleet now to just 3 active rigs: 2 floaters and 1 jack-up.
We have 1 floater that's down just coming out of the shipyards so we only have 2 rigs working today.
The permit situation is certainly improving and we see some optimism out there in some of the big contracts that have been signed.
However on the coal face when we deal with customers on a day-to-day basis we still deal with many people that don't know the permit situation that are waiting on permits.
It's not at a smooth flow situation which we really need to encourage ongoing work.
It's sort of start and stop.
So hopefully we'll continue to make progress in there.
But at the end of the day we just don't have that many rigs left in that market.
The Ocean Victory is a rig that we have that's a 5 000-foot capable rig that's drilling in the 3 000-foot level.
And really there's very very few rigs left there in that category.
I think we're talking -- we've done our Ocean Saratoga there as well and I believe Noble has one unit.
And then other than that most of the rigs there are either jack-ups or they're ultra-deepwater units.
So we see some opportunities there because there's just lack of competition to work that market but it's still impacted by the permits.
And net-net at the end of the day our U.S.
payroll has declined from pre-Macondo until today by some 600 positions for us alone.
I'm sure that has knock on -- I know that has knock on among our suppliers and whatnot and the same thing is true for many of our competitors.
And that's just unfortunate.
However our rigs have relocated overseas and continue to have nice jobs to work on.
So moving forward we are comfortable that we've been doing a very good job of managing cost revenue efficiency in terms of the amount of unplanned downtime or equipment breaks ticked up this quarter from just absolute record results in the previous 2 quarters but it was still well below what we would normally budget to happen.
We've had some surveys start this quarter and we have quite a few more in Q4 which Gary will go into in some greater detail as he gives some guidance on that.
But that's my general opening statement.
And I'll certainly return and we've got the marketing guys return to some of your questions in greater detail.
But Gary why don't you go ahead and take the -- your portion.
Okay.
Thanks Larry.
For the quarter just ended we made net income of $256 million or EPS of $1.85 on revenues of $862 million.
That compares to last quarter where we made $1.92 of earnings on revenues of $870 million.
So we had a slight decline in the third -- from Q2 to Q3 only slight despite the fact that our planned rig excuse me rig downtime increased from 24 days in Q2 to 304 days in Q3.
So we're very pleased with the results that came in for Q3.
Going into some of the results in individual line items in Q3.
Looking at the expenses the big one contract drilling expense we guided in our last conference call to between $395 million to $410 million and actuals came in at $391 million.
Our beat was even a little bit better than that considering the fact that we expensed the Yorktown's mobe that Larry talked about from Brazil back to the Gulf of Mexico in the third quarter cost us about $9.5 million that we had not anticipated.
So if you take that into consideration we were down about $15 million below our expectations.
A couple of reasons for that.
One our survey costs on the 4 rigs that we had in the shipyard in Q3 came out better than expected.
And then as Larry said just continued cost controls out there in the fleet.
Q2 we are normal operating costs.
We're actually a little bit higher than what we expected.
Again we're happy to report Q3 that came back down and came in lower than what we expected.
Another line item that had a difference was interest expense.
We had expected approximately $22 million worth of interest expense and recorded $16 million.
The difference there is capitalized interest.
We did not believe that we would capitalize interest on our newbuild drillships in 2011 that that would begin in the first part of next year.
However there were some milestones reached in the shipyard which caused us to begin capitalizing net interest a little bit earlier than what we expected.
I would tell everybody that the final date of delivery of those rigs still remains the same for the first 2 rigs which is mid '13 and end of '13 but it did change a little bit of the accounting of what's going out there in the shipyard.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter for the first 9 months of 2011 we had 495 days of planned downtime for surveys and shipyard work and mobe et cetera.
As you can see by looking at our rig status report that we've released early this morning we're anticipating 550 days in Q4.
So we're going from 495 the first 9 months to 550 just a result of the timing of surveys et cetera.
We have 5 yards -- 5 rigs in the shipyard for survey in the fourth quarter and another 4 rigs that will either be mobing preparing for contracts or undergoing acceptance testing.
So those days do go up dramatically and this will affect both our revenue and cost lines in Q4.
Getting down to some of the specifics.
For the fourth quarter contract drilling expenses -- again as always we release our normal daily operating costs earlier in the year.
You need to start with that as your base number.
In addition to those costs we will -- the 5 rigs in the shipyard undergoing surveys will incur costs between $4 million and $10 million each and this will add another $22 million to $28 million to our costs.
We have amortized mobe costs goes up slightly in Q4 to $27 million.
We also will expense the Scepter that Larry talked about.
We'll be coming from Brazil back to the Gulf of Mexico to undergo some contract prep work.
We will expense that mobe which will be $8 million to $10 million additional cost in Q4.
And then finally our major expense projects historically are higher the second half of the year particularly Q4 as we wrap up this year's projects.
And so we're expecting to see an increase of $5 million to $10 million in that -- for that reason.
Also from when we originally did our daily cost labor costs have gone up slightly here as the year has gone on and that'll add another $4 million to $6 million.
Then when you add all of those things up we believe contract drilling expenses for Q4 will come in in the $410 million to $420 million range.
And again I caution everybody to remember that's for contract drilling expenses only.
Reimbursable costs will be in addition to this amount.
And of course the reimbursable costs are always offset almost dollar for dollar by reimbursable revenues.
Just a few other housekeeping notes.
G&amp;A we believe will continue to be $17 million to $18 million per quarter.
Depreciation expense guidance stays the same as before $101 million to $104 million for Q4.
Interest expense we should capitalize about $7 million in Q4 which will give us a net interest expense of $15 million.
And our tax rate we believe will stay consistent from prior guidance and be in the 21% to 24% range.
And finally maintenance capital also remains the same -- the guidance remains the same at the $300 million for the year 2011.
And with that I'll turn it back to Larry.
Okay.
So I think we're ready for questions Darren.
Operator let's open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on the revenues during the quarter.
It came in a little higher that what I was anticipating.
And I just wanted to know -- in the fleet status reports you gave the bonuses modeled at 50% down in Brazil.
How are those bonuses versus kind of guidance? Were they a little higher than what you kind of guided to in the fleet status report? Are they coming in at the higher end? And do you think that'll be the case going forward? Dave it's Gary.
They weren't substantially higher.
We were somewhere in the 60% range.
But that did not have that big of impact.
I think bigger impact we did record some demobe revenue on the Yorktown coming from Brazil back to the Gulf of Mexico.
That was about $24 million for the quarter.
And the other thing as Larry pointed out our unplanned rig downtime the downtime we incur just due to normal repairs while not as good as last quarter which was the best I've ever remembered still came in better than what we normally expect to see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as kind of a follow up and just regarding some of the outlook for some of the rigs that are being actively marketed now.
The Whittington down in Brazil would you kind of give us an outlook for that one and maybe the Guardian in the Falkland Islands as well? I'll let Moe Plaisance answer that.
On the Guardian you met with our customers there.
Yes I think we have drilled 2 additional wells from where we're at right now with the Guardian and we're actively marketing it in the U.K.
And our expectation is that we should pick up something fairly soon once we leave Falkland.
So I think -- certainly the Guardian I think we're going to keep it going.
Whittington we have -- we're drilling a well right now in Northern Brazil for Petrobras.
Our expectations after that we have some shipyard time and we'll have to see where we go from there.
Right.
I guess on the Guardian what we've seen is that we're drilling for some smaller companies that are -- tend to take these wells one at a time.
But they certainly realize that once the rig leaves to mobilize to get there [ph] it's very expensive.
So I think there is space upon whatever they discover.
There's always the opportunity until we get a term job somewhere else that they would continue to extend the rig from one well to another.
So we can't -- it's hard to pinpoint when that date would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could get one more in here real quick I'm sorry.
But regards to the 4 stacked mid-water rigs I know there's varying levels of investment that would be needed to get those rigs back to work.
But at some point does it make any sense anymore to put money back into those rigs? Or is it possible just to retire or scrap the rigs? I know it's hard in this business to say never say never.
But do you get a sense that we're getting closer to that point maybe? I think we're certainly looking at a couple of rigs of opportunities where we could put some money in them and return them into the active market.
We're pleased with dayrates in a wide range of areas.
I don't think we're at the point of bringing all 4 back but we would do it one a time and see how the market takes that.
I would expect that a couple of those rigs New Era or perhaps the Epoch are just fairly small and that the logical place for those rigs would be to be resold to a different operator who might focus on either countries that would accept those kind of operations or a different level of customers than we typically would work for.
Next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get your view on Brazil the recent tenders there.
And just generally the ultra-deepwater market -- I mean obviously you've got a couple of newbuilds that you've committed and one that's not committed.
But I just was -- appreciate your commentary on the ultra-deepwater market and how many -- the rig availability next year after Petrobras takes as many rigs as they ultimately may take in this tender.
Yes Robin.
This is Michael.
In general we see the ultra-deepwater and the deepwater market both gaining momentum.
You've seen recently several announcements in the past couple of weeks.
We're seeing this throughout 5 000 feet and above.
We're seeing throughout the whole market a tightening as we go forward.
It appears that a lot of the operators are trying to position themselves like you say for 2012 in particular late 2012 because availability in early 2012 is really getting tight now.
So we see it as really positive.
We think Petrobras could take anywhere 4 to 6 rigs probably off the market in this latest tender.
And then when you sit and look going forward you only have a handful of newbuilds available now in '12 less than 5.
So it's really looking positive for us.
And we think we're positioned well to take advantage of some of that.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of what you see build versus buy of new generation rigs you bought some couple of years ago as I recall that were under construction.
And of course you've ordered some new rigs here recently.
How do you view that trade-off today? I think the -- when we bought those rigs that was a unique circumstances where the credit markets were frozen and so the owner was unable to continue to roll its financing so he brought it to market.
We didn't have a big backlog at that time of the shipyard orders and we were ready to move quickly.
So they came out in a series of 3.
We bought the first 2 at decent rates.
And we participated the bidding on the third round but the cost of the rig had escalated over $100 million from the first unit so we didn't do that.
So I don't see many of those things lined up today.
And I see a lot of well-capitalized people that would buy rigs.
We certainly saw Transocean expose quite a bit of money when Aker was recently sold.
So I don't know that that has appeal to us.
The new construction market has had attractive prices and so we moved on that and have 3.
And we're pleased to have 2 of those already put to bed at rates that are right in the range for what was just recently announced for some of the ultra-deepwater rates this last week.
So we're pleased with that and we'll remain flexible.
I won't rule out one or the other.
But it's difficult to see unless the market got really bad that there would be opportunities to buy existing rigs out of the shipyard.
Next question comes from the line of John Lawrence of Tudor Pickering Holding (sic) [Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.].
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Monarch here.
It looks like it's going to work in Vietnam for BP.
But post that contract and the options should we expect a pretty nice uptick in the rate there? I expect it.
Yes John we do.
We're in discussions with a couple of different operators right now one for a particularly significant job.
So yes I would -- the short answer to your question is yes.
And I think we'll be pleased with what we see.
Well the rate that we're working on is not the strongest.
But it -- that rate quoted does not include the fact that we got a full mobe from the customer to -- significant mobe to relocate it all the way from the Gulf of Mexico more than halfway around the world I guess when you look at the routing.
And if you put that into the dayrate then it's a very very strong dayrate.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on the Whittington you had some commentary there.
But ultimately does that rig stay in Brazil? Or does it move somewhere else? I would think the rig moves somewhere else.
We took the Yorktown out of -- made an arrangement with Petrobras where we moved that time to another rig and let it go.
And so my sense is that their mid-water requirements which are -- they have significant production in mid-water but -- is there.
But I'm not sure that it's at the point to retain the Whittington.
So I would love for that rig to come out.
Next question comes from the line of Douglas Becker of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up in the newbuild question.
My recollection is that you have an option expiring shortly.
We're seeing the dayrates rising for ultra-deepwater rigs.
What's this latest thinking on the potential exercising of that option? Well we've got a little bit more time and we'll -- we're still analyzing it.
And there's -- we like to gather all the data that we can.
What the rates are what the number of rigs are that are in construction who we'd be in competition with when it was delivered.
And so we're looking at that and we'll certainly make a call and let everybody know which way we go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Does that expire at the end of October? Is that the current timing? About then.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean could you say with the dayrates rising has -- are you shifting a little more favorably disposed to that? Or...
No sorry I can't give you a hint on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Michael you highlighted the tightening of the ultra-deepwater as well as the deepwater market.
Where do you see the discount for moored floaters versus DP units today? And how do you see that involving in the tightening market? Well there still is a discount compared to the ultra-deepwater DP.
But what we have seen is we've got several customers who have deepwater or even some in the ultra-deepwater programs and yet they'll also have some more mid-water type programs.
So the flexibility that the moored rig gives you there has really improved the market for the deepwater market.
But there is still somewhat of a discount.
We see it tightening though and if you look around the world at the various deepwater markets the units there's just not many available left.
You look at Southeast Asia; the Gulf of Mexico as Larry mentioned where the Victory is; even West Africa -- that market is tightening up fairly quickly.
So '12 and '13 look good for those markets.
And I'd point out that although we'd take a discount on revenues the operating costs on these newer units are also -- it's not dollar for dollar but it's a significant reduction versus a full marine crew DP unit.
Research Division</strong> Fair point.
So if we think about margins any margin differential you'd throw out as discount today and what that might go to? I think on the top line we're looking at -- $50 000 to $75 000 a day seems to be -- it's all dependent upon each job.
So that's sort of there and of course we don't get that much cost reduction.
But we get $20 000 a day.
At least.
At least yes.
Everybody's mentioning at least so that's a target too low.
Next question comes from the line of Geoff Kieburtz of Weeden &amp; Co.
LP Research Division</strong> Just a question as we've seen these fixtures recently and the rates move on the deepwater up over $500 000.
How do you see this playing out over the next several quarters? Do you think that we're going to see rates continue to rise? Or are we going to start to see the term of these contracts getting longer? Yes.
I'll let marketing speak to that but the other factor is the delivery of new rigs and the rollover of existing rigs.
So that's a downward pressure.
Geoff I think it depends a lot on the program of the operator.
I mean when you talk about development programs usually those have more term involved with them.
And then the exploration programs sometimes the operators will pay a significant premium but take a shorter term on those.
So it's a mix and like Larry said I think we're going both -- we're moving up and to the right as both rate and term goes as operators try to secure rigs.
But it's very dependent on what their program looks like and what phase they're in.
And I would say the recent announcements the rates have some amount of premium just for near-term availability and the fact that there's not a lot of near-term availability.
So that may be different if somebody stepped up and contracted out.
On the other hand our 2 that we contracted with Anadarko will ride in that period so.
LP Research Division</strong> Right.
And right now as you look at your contract portfolio you're -- kind of roughly speaking what's the mix between development and exploration? Yes I would say probably 60% on the development and 40% exploration.
But it just depends.
In Southeast Asia we're doing a lot of exploration.
In Brazil you're doing more development.
So it's region dependent also.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Burk of Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> I had a question -- follow-up question on the downtime for the coming quarter.
Looking through the downtime that you guys disclosed looks like most rigs that you had scheduled for the third quarter did have their downtime or their perforation time.
But then that got extended into the fourth quarter.
Is there anything going on with the shipyards where it's taking longer to the get stuff done? Or is it just an issue that you had more things come up to do on those rigs? Or is there any trends there that you can identify? I don't believe there's a trend Scott.
You had -- for instance on the Princess we have additional time in the shipyard.
Part of that is driven by the fact that our contract that we have signed the long-term contract didn't began until January 4 or 5 something -- the third something like that.
And so we're utilizing that additional time to do some painting on the rigs and things like that.
If needed be we could have come out earlier but there our customer's not ready for us.
Same with the Saratoga.
We've extended a little bit of time on that because of the hurricane season and not having a job to go out to right away.
So I haven't seen anything that's shipyard dependent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And then just wanted to kind of circle back on the Victory.
Do you think there's going to end up being more opportunities for that rig in the Gulf of Mexico? Or do you think you'll end up moving internationally? We've looked at it and we've decided it appears there's going to be several opportunities here in the Gulf of Mexico.
As Larry said there's not a lot a units that can cover the territory that the Victory can as far as water depth goes.
And we're starting to work lining up behind it so we're confident that the Gulf of Mexico is where that rig will be in the near future and see some good opportunities for it.
Next question comes from the line of Mike Urban of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I had kind of a question on your thoughts on the cash flow profile.
Pretty good cash generation certainly rest of this year and all throughout next year.
But the way your newbuilds are structured a pretty good capital commitment coming in '13.
And as you said earlier trying to decide what you're going to do going forward with options and whatnot.
Given the uncertain macro outlook out there do you at some point proactively build cash ahead of those capital needs or access the debt markets? Just trying to get a sense of how you're thinking about kind of the longer-term situation vis-à-vis the again the uncertain macro outlook.
We've got $1.1 billion of cash on our balance sheet and our line just expired and said that we don't -- can't see a need to use that.
And so we're comfortable with our cash.
We're comfortable with still -- we were comfortable this quarter in making our normal dividend and our special dividend at the rate we've been paying out for a couple of things -- several quarters now.
And looking forward to the capital delivery I think we certainly have to rollover some of our existing debt that's expiring.
But that doesn't occur until 2014 and 2015.
We certainly would be opportunistic in the debt market.
Should we believe that interest rates are rising in the future potentially could do something then.
But as Larry said as of right now and at least in the near-term future cash looks good.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
And then more of a qualitative question that I've been asking a lot of late.
There's certainly no issues in the current market for offshore rigs around the world upward pressure on rates as you've been talking about.
In your discussions with your customers again given the macro backdrop out there any sense of hesitation any concern saying let's maybe put off a discussion about a rig or a program or anything like that? Or is it still full speed ahead? No everything we've seen in discussions with customers everyone's playing their business into '12 and '13 and we don't really see any hesitation from the operators at this point with the commodity price where it is.
Of course that is risk out there but it's not been something that has really been part of the discussions we've had.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia of Vertical Research.
I was curious.
When I look at kind of tender activity going out through next year and kind of sum where it's coming from it seems like most of the visible demand is coming from places outside of the Gulf of Mexico.
It would strike me that maybe tender activity has been slower and the visibility lower because people didn't want to be long a rig and short a permit.
Is there any way you can kind of quantify maybe what do you think the latent demand is for floaters and maybe even jack-ups in the Gulf of Mexico over the next say 12 months? Well we think there's pent-up demand for sure that once -- as the permitting continues to flow and gets a little bit better over time we're seeing more and more operators.
But you're correct in your assumption that that balance they're trying to make of do I commit now and what's the permitting risk those types of decisions that the operators have to go through.
But both in ultra-deepwater and deepwater we do see pent-up demand that once the flow gets back to "normal " I think you're going to see more activity.
The jack-ups we're seeing some increase on the jack-up side too.
It seems like the permits flow a little better there.
As you've probably noticed we put the Columbia back to work and it appears that there's some follow-on work that will be coming.
So our confidence there along with Mexico has really made us much more positive on the jack-up market in this part of the world.
Okay.
If you don't mind I just -- to kind of -- can you expand on that a little bit on that? In that what's the order of magnitude on either -- do you kind of segment the market between sort of deepwater or not mid-water and the rest? I mean are we order of magnitude of maybe not visible demand of 10 to 20 rigs 5 to 10? I mean is there some sense of kind of -- because it strikes me that if rates are moving higher and people seem to be anxious to get rigs that the blatant demand maybe is not seen.
It's actually higher than most people anticipate.
Well I don't want to quantify how many rigs we may see or we feel like is pent-up demand.
But I think good indications are the recent signings with BP here in the Gulf of Mexico for the Seadrill rig and Hess taking the Atwood rig in that group along with the Ensco rig.
So you're starting to see several rigs being contracted for term work.
So to me that's a positive sign that these operators are positive in where we're heading from a permitting standpoint and shows the requirement for additional rigs.
Your final question comes from the line of Judson Bailey of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow up on some of the deepwater commentary.
Larry you mentioned a spread or discount for moored versus some of the DP units out there.
If I look at rigs like the Monarch and the Endeavor which are higher quality moored rigs do we assume then given where we've seen some of the fixtures for some of the newbuild assets that something around 425 for those is a reasonable expectation for those rigs in 2012? It would depend on the market.
I mean mentioning those 2 rigs the Monarch's due into the Pacific Basin and we see lots of demand there.
So I would -- we would be most hopeful that that rig would land towards the higher end.
The Endeavor is still working off a really old commitment in the 200 -- high 200s.
But the market there in the Mediterranean although there's demand I don't -- I can't necessarily tell you that it's going to right away price right off of a newbuild because there's not a lot of newbuilds floating around in the Med itself drilling.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But safe to say though for the better moored assets the rates seem like they're now above 400 as opposed to some of the mid-3s that we saw just a few months ago.
Again it depends on term of the contract and who we're drilling.
And there could still be some high 300s that pop up as a fill-in or something like that.
But we're certainly looking for term work to cover those assets that will be in the low 4s.
Okay we thank everybody's interest and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore Drilling Fourth Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brandy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Acuff Vice President of Marketing.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these concerns investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
After we have discussed our results we'll have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Darren and good morning and welcome to our end of the year and fourth quarter conference call.
Well I'm going to start off by talking a little bit about the market.
We do not have any banner dayrates to announce today nor have we announced any recently but that doesn't mean that there's not intense interest in a number of our rigs across a number of markets.
If we just back up for a little bit and put this in perspective on where the market is now versus where it was a year ago we're seeing a very strong market.
We're seeing that the continuation of oil prices at or above $100 for that time period is obviously having in our judgment an impact on our customer as they take this oil price in and become increasingly comfortable that that is the go-forward price that they can count on.
We've had the North Sea firm up a year ago.
We had very little forward visibility.
We're concerned about working rigs through the winter and now we've got backlog in place.
We're returning the Guardian from the Falkland Islands to that market for a term contract.
And in addition to that Mexico has really come on very strong.
We currently have 4 jack-ups and a semi in that market.
A year ago we had 2 jack-ups there with less than a year of forward visibility.
And now we're right at 10 years of commitment spread across those 5 rigs.
So Mexico stepping forward taking up jack-ups bringing in floaters is certainly also a real net positive we believe.
In the Gulf of Mexico we continue to take rigs out of that market so we're now down to one jack-up and one semi the Ocean Victory.
We've got good demand for both units.
We're seeing in the jack-up front that there's a number of small players that are seeking to find well places oil plays among other things to put jack-ups to work.
And then really with just our sole semi and the 3 of 6 000-foot market with very little competition we're seeing great interest in that particular unit as well.
Over in Indonesia where we have had a presence since the early '80s we were down to our core jack-up over there.
The Ocean Sovereign has since been cold stacked and we had the Ocean Rover working in that market for a short-term period.
But since then we've committed the Ocean Monarch for a full year program so we're glad to continue in that area.
And I think that also shows just that you've got lots of interest around the world in areas that people believe that they can develop lots of production that will be profitable at these type of dayrates.
And then the most recent activity that we've gotten is the announcement of the construction of the Ocean Onyx.
That has begun in Brownsville and we're targeting a mid '13 delivery on that unit.
So the quick turnaround is certainly an advantage to us as is the low capital cost of approximately $300 million and we've got interest in that unit already.
We're not ready to comment particularly on where that market is.
But I think if you watch the Ocean Victory which is a similar rig the Onyx will have more capability for sure but they will service similar market.
And as you see what sort of commitments we may have on Ocean Victory going forward I think that will give you a good clue on where the demand might be for the Ocean Onyx certainly in the.Gulf of Mexico.
And of course there was new interest in it in other Atlantic Basin areas that we could put the vessel to work.
Following the Ocean Onyx we have one more opportunity to do a similar development where we could deliver new capacity to the fourth-generation market.
And we're pursuing that from an engineering standpoint at this point and don't have anything else to announce on that.
And then finally over the past year we did commit the Ocean BlackHawk and BlackHornet to Anadarko and we have one more rig in that class to be marked.
There's a lot of rigs at that delivery point so I wouldn't necessarily look at this moment that we're going to have a commitment for it.
But as we look forward to demand we're very comfortable that virtually all of the rigs that are being constructed in that time frame will be committed.
And of course the Ocean BlackRhino we think that's the coolest name in the whole oil field and we hope that our customers will think the same thing.
So with the -- that is sort of my commentary on the market.
Gary Krenek will be talking about cost guidance but let me comment a little bit on that.
Obviously for the quarter we were mostly impacted by a very favorable change in our tax rate and Gary will talk about that.
But from our operational standpoint I'm pleased with our execution.
We had 146 days of unanticipated equipment downtime which is up from an average of about 85 a quarter for the first 3 quarters of the year but well within our target operational envelope.
And so we're pleased with that.
We had 570 days of shipyard on mobe time.
And of course that we try to provide guidance so that you know that that's coming and that was up from what we've been experiencing during the year.
We've got a number of surveys on a go-forward basis but we think that that's a large number.
And we believe that that will come down.
Our OpEx was also within guidance I believe.
Recently Gary had indicated to you that our total OpEx would be right at $1.5 billion for the entire year and we came in at $1.550 billion which we'll declare victory on that that we were comfortable going forward.
So really the story at Diamond Offshore we'll be watching the market in the coming year in the coming quarters to see what sort of commitments we have there.
And then we will continue to work very hard to execute to deliver on the dayrates that we have both from a downtime standpoint from an operating cost.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Gary and let him elaborate on some of the numbers that you saw for the quarter.
Okay.
Thanks Larry.
I'll talk a little bit about the fourth quarter and then we'll go into some detail as to what we expect to see in the coming year in 2012.
For the quarter just ended we had net income of $188 million or $1.36 per share this coming on contract drilling revenues of $734 million.
As Larry said the -- our downtime for planned regulatory surveys and shipyard downtime was up in the fourth quarter just as we had forecasted it would be and that impacted our revenues and of course then impacted the bottom line.
But a total of 5 rigs in the shipyard in the fourth quarter had missed all or most of the quarter and were off dayrate.
We also had an additional 4 rigs that we're mobing to various areas in the world mobing 2 contracts and that affected us in the fourth quarter.
Again all of these came in about at the amount of time that we had forecast and have released on our rig status reports earlier.
The big thing that impacted positively the quarter was the tax rate and I'm going to talk about that in just a second.
Looking -- getting a little bit more specific on some of the line items in the income statement for Q4.
Contract drilling expenses we guided in our last conference call and said that they will come in between $410 million to $420 million.
That actually came in at $407 million so just slightly under our guidance.
As Larry said cost control is a top priority here at Diamond Offshore and we continue to follow through on that and provide numbers set within our guidance or slightly below.
G&amp;A and interest expense came in close to what we had indicated in our last conference call.
Depreciation expense was slightly below our expectations and this was due to a normal year-end adjustment.
We booked our depreciation through the year and have to true it up at the end of the year.
We ultimately underspent our capital by about $25 million in 2011 and this gave rise to the fourth quarter adjustment that we had.
It was about $6 million.
So other than that we would have come in within the guidance of the depreciation.
The big thing of course in the quarter was the tax -- effective tax rate.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth -- for the year was 18.4%.
We had expected it to come in at somewhere between 21% and 24% and there's a couple of reasons for the lower rate.
But first of all in the fourth quarter we had reduction in our liabilities for uncertain tax positions for your accounting and tax type such as FIN 48 accrual.
We have some time-sensitive issues in that accrual that turned in December -- actually at the end of December and as a result caused us to book some credits to our tax expense as these items expired.
They were items that we could anticipate but for GAAP reasons could not recognize until the timing actually expired on these items.
And therefore it drove our tax expense for the quarter down.
We also had our normal year-end true up domestic versus foreign earnings and also where we're earning those foreign earnings at.
We do report tax rate every quarter in accordance with GAAP.
Whether you're still always working with estimates we finally in the fourth quarter get to work with actual numbers and that caused the rate to change a little bit.
So the -- our rate actually was down a couple of percentage points lower for the year than what we had anticipated.
But because we had to book that accumulative adjustment in the fourth quarter it caused the Q4 tax rate to be 7.5%.
And I'll talk about the next year's tax rate in a second.
As Larry said we had forecasted our rig operating expense or contract drilling expenses to be approximately $1.5 billion.
We did that in our fourth quarter conference call a year ago.
They came in at $1.550 billion.
And so as he said we'll declare victory there and think we did a pretty good job.
Looking forward to 2012 we're forecasting those same contract drilling expenses to increase by about $100 million and be somewhere in the neighborhood of $1.650 billion.
The increase is due to a couple of things.
First of all we are anticipating doing 12 special surveys this year 11 floater rigs and one jack-up.
This will also of course have an impact on down days in our revenues.
And rather than going through the detail there I'd point you to our rig status report that we issued yesterday evening or we also have on our website to see the timing of those surveys and the actual number of the down days expected with all of them.
We also have -- are seeing some increases in labor cost in the industry along with training costs as we gear up for additional rigs coming into our fleet.
These 2 items will make up the bulk of the remaining increase in cost '11 over '12.
There is some general inflation that we're seeing in the industry.
However that will for the most part we believe be offset by the fact that we cold stacked a couple of rigs in 2011.
We incurred the cost in '11 for those rigs.
We won't incur it in '12.
And so that savings will we believe offset the general inflation.
Again contract drilling expenses will be about $1.650 billion for 2012.
Just a little bit more color on that.
During the year we expect to see normal rig operating costs as we always do plus the survey costs for the 12 rigs that we'll have coming into survey.
Those survey costs we believe will run us in addition to their normal cost about $5 million to $7 million additional above operating cost for each of the rigs with the exception being the worker in the Star.
But we think those costs will be $8 million to $10 million above the operating -- normal operating cost.
And conversely the Guardian and the King we think will be somewhere in the $3 million to $5 million range with the surveying and repair-type cost.
Mobe and amortized mobilization cost for 2012 we believe will come in somewhere around $90 million.
First quarter we will incur about $45 million of that $90 million.
The remaining Q2 through Q4 will be somewhere in the $14 million to $16 million range.
Q1 will be high for 2 reasons: Number one in 2011 we mobed the Ocean Monarch from the Gulf of Mexico to Southeast Asia.
The initial work on that rig when we got there was a 4-month job.
We have since signed that up and that rig is committed for an additional 4 years.
But because of accounting rules we are having to amortize that mobe over just the initial 4-months job.
The rig got to Southeast Asia in December so we recorded a little bit of that in the fourth quarter this year.
But we'll write the rest of that mobe off in the first quarter.
Also we have the Guardian that is mobing from the Falkland Islands to the North Sea.
It will do its survey in the North Sea and then go work for a 2-year commitment with Shell.
But again accounting rules because we're going to a survey requires us to expense that mobe currently rather than amortizing it over the length of the contract.
So we'll see $45 million in Q1 for that.
Again I would remind everyone that these amortized mobe cost for the most part are offset by amortized mobe revenues that we've received.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line in our income statement contract drilling expenses only.
But these numbers do not include cost incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
We give no guidance for reimbursable expenses nor do we give guidance for reimbursable revenues.
If you look at that they almost always net to a very immaterial amount.
So that was $1.650 million contract drilling expenses only.
Looking at just the first quarter of 2012 for contract drilling expenses we believe Q1 will come in somewhere in the $405 million to $420 million range.
This will be comprised of the normal rig operating cost; the Baroness survey cost the Baroness we'll do in Q1; and then the mobe cost that I talked about earlier.
Other line items in 2012.
G&amp;A we believe will be flat with the prior year.
It'd be somewhere in the $17 million to $18 million range each quarter.
Depreciation goes up slightly due to capital expenditures and will be in the $105 million to $108 million range per quarter.
And interest expense our gross interest on our debt is $22 million per quarter.
We will be capitalizing a portion of that during the year.
We estimate right now approximately $8 million per quarter which will give us a net interest expense on the P&amp;L statement of approximately $14 million.
Looking at the tax rate for 2012.
We are right now estimating net tax rate to be somewhere in the 27% to 29% range so a pretty significant increase over 2011.
There are a number of reasons for that.
First of all expiration of the tax extenders bill which expired on December 31 of this past year.
This law included the provision that allowed the company to defer recognizing certain foreign earnings as U.S.
taxable income until such earnings are repatriated back to the U.S.
With the expiration of this law certain foreign incomes will now be taxed currently in the U.S thus increasing our effective tax rate for the year.
Secondly for the past 15 years we've recorded a tax deduction or amortization associated with our acquisition of Arethusa drilling back in 1995.
Those deductions were fully amortized last year and thus we don't have benefit of those deductions in 2012 or any time thereafter.
Third as I said earlier we had a fourth quarter reduction of our FIN 48 accrual.
This reduced our overall tax rate for 2011 and we're not able to forecast any similar reduction to -- for 2012.
So we're not going to see a credit for that we don't believe at this time in 2012.
And finally the normal mixture between domestic and foreign earnings always has an effect on our tax rate.
We've put that into our model wash it through.
And as a result take all of these things in account we now expect a 27% to 29% tax rate.
We'll of course be updating that quarterly as the year progresses.
And finally capital expenditures for the coming year we believe we'll see maintenance capital of $330 million.
Our guidance last year was $300 million.
We came in at about $275 million so we had some rollover into 2012.
So when you take that into account maintenance capital is about flat year-over-year.
And then we also expect to record about $220 million of capital for our new build rigs primarily the Onyx but we'll also see some capitalized cost for oversight of the drill ships and of course the capitalized interest on the drill ships.
So in total we expect to see $550 million of CapEx for the year.
Approximately $100 million of that will be spent we believe in Q1.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Okay.
I think we're ready for questions Darren.
Operator we'd like to open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Gary just as a point of clarification the $1.65 was inclusive of the survey costs or before survey costs? No that's inclusive of everything Ian survey cost in and before.
Research Division</strong> That's what I thought.
Okay follow-up question on the market really.
Larry really just a true or false.
It sounds like the fourth-generation market could be poised for improving dayrates and term combined which would be quite a difference from what we've seen for the past couple of years for the 2012 fixtures.
Is that a true? As you said it could be so yes.
I wish that would be the case.
To elaborate on that I'll let Michael speak but we're very enthusiastic about that market or we wouldn't have committed to the Onyx.
Yes I know Ian we're seeing in the Gulf of Mexico -- in particular if I work through the markets we're seeing some demands start to be realized here in the Gulf as some customers continue to work that water depth area.
Of course West Africa there's a strong demand over there at the moment and that's in various water depths from deepwater to ultra-deepwater.
And then even in Southeast Asia we're seeing this water depth where there's -- for this market where there's demand in this water depth.
So we're quite positive on this market like Larry said or we wouldn't have done the Onyx.
We're seeing -- we think we'll have significant term with some of these assets and of course dayrates increasing.
So without getting specific we're seeing a general worldwide demand in deepwater that continues and we feel like it's an opportunity for us to service to that market.
Your next question comes from the line of Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So quick question.
I guess -- and you might have gone over this a little bit but the kind of channel checks we're doing in the industry seem to indicate a lot of uncertainty into how to kind of write the contracts in the post-Macondo world.
How do you kind of decipher between who's paying for the downtime if you have to pull a BOP and all the new regulatory issues? Could you maybe talk to a little bit to that? And I think it's been kind of handed to me that a lot of it has to do with how the manufacturers recommend the kind of maintenance cycle on a BOP and so it needs to get rewritten into the contracts as unpaid or paid downtime.
And how does the new contracts compare to the older legacy contracts that we're currently working off right now? Long-winded question but hopefully you got that.
Well yes if I can design an ideal contract it would involve at the end each well whatever time it takes to do the BOP work would be compensated downtime.
And of course that's quite a bit different from where we are today.
We've seen over the past 5 or 6 years just a change in operations in that.
It used to be that it would take more time to move from one location to set up another well and you would have a normal 2 or 3 days built-in where you could perform your maintenance on the BOP stack.
And now at these dayrates as you can imagine our customers are intensely focused on trying to reduce nonproductive time.
So we actually lose ground over time and that they maybe ready to go.
And so we don't get as much downtime.
And we're pushing wherever we can to expand that but that's an ongoing process.
There's other issues as well on the contracts.
Michael do you have any things you've noted? No I think we're still working with the similar model we had pre-Macondo.
Of course there's always pressures depending on the market of clauses changing here and there.
But in general we look for downtime banks or paid time to maintain our equipment between wells or recertifying with the customer.
And we continue to do that.
Again like Larry said it evolves a bit customer to customer.
But in general I wouldn't say we've seen a big shift in contracting and the way contracts are done from a historical standpoint.
But it's something that continues to evolve as we go forward and regulations come out of different requirements are put before us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Last question for me.
You got some cold stacked assets in the Gulf of Mexico.
That markets looks -- sorry in the jack-up side that market looks to be improving not gangbusters but it looks to be getting better.
Any prospects for reactivating those rigs or rigs where they need to be and maybe just a little color there? Of the 4 idle jack-ups we have in the Gulf of Mexico one is the Ocean Spartan which is a 300-foot unit and I think that's the highest prospect.
We have actually talked to various operators about that rig suited for some programs.
So that's something that could happen.
The other 3 are mat jack-ups.
And although that market has strengthened we're not really looking to reenter that market.
I think it would be much more likely that we would be able to sell those rigs to somebody else who would have the scale of operations and be sized to operate those rigs in a manner that it's just not worth the effort for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Judd Bailey with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on surveys you outlined all the 5-year surveys for 2012.
Can you give us a broad sense of what that number could be like in 2013? And I understand you don't want to give details but in general would it be higher or lower or maybe about the same in terms of modeling 2013? Judd right now we believe we'll have 8 surveys in '13.
And of course that's subject to adjustment but -- so slightly lower than what we're projecting in '12.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the operating cost guidance you provided in the fleet status last night it seems like I guess operating cost in some of the Brazil floaters are probably moving higher.
As we model that through should we also increase the rate to offset those higher costs or has that already been accounted for in the fleet status reports as you kind of bump up the rates as you get cost pass-through on those contracts? As we get the increase yes we bump up the rates in the rigs status report.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if it's up for 2012 should we assume you're probably going to get that? In other words it hasn't been reflected yet in the fleet status you have already but it's probably what we would probably see it if those operating costs proved to be true.
Is that...
We will not change that rig status report until we actually get an increase in rates.
So it's not reflected on a go-forward basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question was just to circle back on the Ocean Victory and the Gulf.
As you noted you do have some availability and the Gulf is picking up.
Can you give a little more color maybe to the type of opportunities? Are they still more well to well or are you seeing some longer-term opportunities beyond say maybe one year for that kind of unit? Yes Judd.
As you're aware the supply here is somewhat limited in that market where the Victory is at.
So what we're seeing from customers are longer term.
They're starting to get more visibility and it's shifting from the well to well or 6-month type programs into more year 18 months [indiscernible] years of discussions that we're having with customers.
So like I say that again is that we're -- we think we're well positioned for us so longer term and better rates I think in the Gulf for that rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you for a longer-term contract are you providing any type of discount or is the market strong enough that it's pretty much the same for spot versus term at this point? That depends on the situation.
But I would say that spread has tightened quite a bit compared to what you may traditionally think of the trade-off of term for rate.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Saratoga.
Are there enough work in Guyana to keep it down there or did that potentially moved back to the Gulf of Mexico just given the strength we're seeing? Yes John we continue to look at Saratoga and the opportunities down there.
We think there are some additional opportunities.
I won't tell you that it's visible or we've got something more concrete at the moment.
But there's work in the Trinidad area.
There's continued work down there in the Guyana-Suriname type area but we'll continue to investigate those.
Otherwise we'll come back to the Gulf because we've still got customers that would like to use the Saratoga here.
So we'll just have to see how it develops going forward and if things come together in time.
If they don't we'll bring the rig back.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what would the mobe cost be there to bring it back? We -- it's about 30 days to get down there and back and we typically do that.
I think on the Saratoga we've got a dayrate and tugs-type scenario.
So from an all-in number you'd have to do the calculation.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Scholl with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I had just 2 quick questions.
One you kind of mentioned the jack-ups in the Gulf of Mexico that are stacked and a potential divestiture of some of the older mat jack-ups.
Can you give us a progress update on that? I know we've heard that there's several interested parties.
I mean how close do you guys think you are or is that something that's still quite a ways away? And then secondly with the Asia Pacific market kind of heating up we've heard that there's 3 or 4 tenders potentially out there in Vietnam with varying lengths of 6 or 7 months particularly for the jack-ups.
With the Sovereign still stacked there is there the possibility that could be going back to work soon? I think that still needs kind of a 5-year survey which I'm guessing would probably be in that kind of $3 million to $5 million range.
At what length of a contract that kind of would it make sense for that to go back to work? The -- on the mat jack-ups I mean we're not really serious about that.
I was just indicating of the possible futures that we probably might explore a sale ahead of putting them back to work.
But it's not at the point that anybody should be booking that on those vessels.
The Ocean Sovereign has not been down that long.
It's facing a survey so there's that little bit of a block for the rig to come back to work.
But certainly in a strong market we would be prepared to do that.
But again I don't -- although we would bring it back at a point in time at which we would seek some profitability most of that profitability would be recovering the survey costs.
So I don't think it has a big bottom-line impact if we brought that back in any -- in the year that we did it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you kind of comment on the -- maybe the floater side of the Asia Pacific market.
I believe you guys have the General that's out there that's being actively marketed.
And then you have a couple of other cold stacked rigs there.
Are you seeing pretty good prospects for bringing any -- getting any of those rigs to work? In particular on the General we do see prospects.
We're actually in discussions at the moment on a couple of different opportunities with the General.
We've kind of got a short gap window here that we're summing off survey before we would have the opportunity to start a job.
But we see demand for the General and believe it's short term.
The short-term period will work into longer contract.
So we're seeing in General 12 months to a year is kind of the term we're talking about for contracting in Southeast Asia right now for rigs for the General.
Your next question comes from the line of David Smith with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this early I got disconnected for a couple of minutes.
I just wanted to confirm that the total drilling cost guidance of $1.65 billion if that did include surveys and mobilizations? Yes it did.
That's all-in.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Quick question about a couple of the dayrates in the fleet status report.
On the Ocean Confidence was that $390 000 a day a clean rate for the asset or were there any mitigating factors that maybe caused a little discount versus the recent high 400 to mid-400 we've seen for 10 000-foot BP rigs.
Yes David on the Confidence one of the things I think you -- that happens in our business sometimes is you'll make a deal and then it takes some time to work through the details of the contract in order to finalize it.
And that's what happened in this scenario.
This rate is several months old.
It was where we're working with a customer to finalize the deal.
So I wouldn't take that as an indication of where we think the market is in particular definitely not in West Africa.
So it's just something that happens in our business sometimes as a matter of process.
And so that's what happened when we finalized it then.
This was the next opportunity to announce it.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Makes perfect sense.
That's good color.
And on the Rover are the 3 remaining priced options also at 285 a day? The Rover has firm commitments that we recently signed at 600 days -- I'm sorry did you say Endeavor? Are you speaking about the Endeavor? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Oh I'm sorry I misidentified that rig.
Right.
We saw that the 4-month extension at $285 000 a day and there's 2 more priced options.
I just wanted to confirm if those were at $285 000.
Yes and that was -- again to make commentary on that that was part of the agreement we reached to get the Endeavor out of the Gulf of Mexico.
It was working in the Gulf of Mexico at a rate similar to that.
And so we -- our big concern was to get it out keep it working and that was a position that we -- the market sort of forced us to take.
Under normal circumstances we would not price an option that far into the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Burk with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Gary I wanted to ask you on the expense front if all the rigs were active and you had apples-to-apples comparison what would be your average cost inflation for 2012? Somewhere in the mid- to upper-single digits probably.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
That's helpful.
And I wanted to ask you questions on a couple of rigs.
The Ocean Confidence with Murphy what are your expectations for when that rig can move actually to Gulf of Mexico and start that $500 and $12 000 day rate.
Would you expect that kind of at the end of the most recent extension through January 2013? That's really Murphy's call on their confidence on the permitting situation.
And you hear some companies are very bullish on the permits section application and other companies are a little bit more cautious.
It depends on where their prospects are so we can't really comment on that.
Certainly that remains the intent for Murphy to bring that back.
We should work through most of our commitments at these lower dayrates sometime later in the year.
And so we would be looking in one market or the other to be moving up towards market with that vessel.
Research Division</strong> So the implication is -- can you remind me what you're commitments are? So just have to commit into that dayrate through the end of 2012 at all? Yes towards the end of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then the other one I wanted ask you about was the Heritage which moved to warm stacked from being actually marketed.
Do you have any expectations for -- of a higher time there and does it need yardwork before you'd put it back on another contract? No the Heritage has recently completed its survey so it's good to go on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> And so should we assume like just 1 month or 2 downtime or perhaps more than that? Well any down time we took would be if -- relocating it to a different market and so it'd be just mobilization time.
We continue to evaluate the opportunities with Heritage and we'll see going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted ask you kind of a broader question on the Macondo court cases.
It just had a couple of rulings that seem to be favorable for the industry.
I just wondered what your thoughts were in terms of the rulings there and if it strengthens or weakens the indemnity clauses that you have in drilling contracts? I can't really speak to legal issues other than my understanding was an affirmation of the contracts that were negotiated between the operator and the contractor.
And we believe very much in the contracts that when you conduct business you set parameters that obviously can take one thing or another.
And we were glad to see the court will leave that in place.
So that's a good thing for all of business I would say not just drilling contractors or the energy business.
Your final question comes from the line of Andreas Stubsrud with Pareto Securities.
Research Division</strong> Actually one of my questions were partly answered.
I was wondering how you were thinking about the jack-ups that actually have left some -- or have negative operating income before CapEx obviously and taxes et cetera have negative operating income the whole jack-up fleet.
And how you're thinking about that in the future compared to what you just did with Ocean Voyager were you actually are taking it from a low-end markets to a higher-end market? It's a little bit more difficult of course in the jack-up market.
But your long term views on kind of this type of fleet? We certainly had different opportunities available to us in the floater area.
We've got other cold stacked rigs that we don't necessarily see a way to upgrade this.
The Onyx was based upon a vessel that had some inherent strength that enabled us to deliver new capacity into the fourth-gen market.
And at jack-ups we went to a program several years ago where we upped water depths by adding legs and adding mud pumps and whatnot.
And generally that fleet is at its practical capacity.
Because beyond as you start adding power which requires space which requires -- takes your deck load down and it's just not the room to be able to upgrade those rigs cost effectively.
So we are continuing.
We've got a stronger market.
We've got rigs down in Mexico.
So we're working very hard to up the contributions they make but this remains primarily a floater company.
And that's the way we see it going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
Do you think it will be a trend what you do with Voyager in the market in general or in the industry? Because like you're saying the fourth-generation market looks quite good especially in Africa and other places while the low end and middle market looks to be more replaced by both new boats and other units.
Do you think this is going to be an industry trend or do you think there's only going to be some one-offs like the one you're doing? Well I mean each owner of the rig will make his own assessment.
But certainly we've seen that if you don't have an appropriate vessel to apply in your program around that you run the risk of really spending a lot of money.
We sold the Ocean Liberator to another contractor who did what was in our judgment was not a cost-effective upgrade because the cost just kept spiraling out.
Certainly what Diamond has done in the past has worked really well.
I would say Noble has done some good jobs with some of their vessels.
But I think in general there's limited number of appropriate vessels to be worked on on a go-forward basis.
So my expectation would be that the -- there would be few units that you would see come into the market as a fourth-gen type capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the last one are you able to inform us what the Ocean Voyager book value was before you were doing this upgrade? It was minimal simply because that rig was acquired as part of the ODECO acquisition in 1992 so it has been very much depreciated.
Okay.
We thank everybody for joining us.
We had some good questions and we're looking forward to next quarter and hope to have some dayrates to get you excited about.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Diamond Offshore Drilling Fourth Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Drilling First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Acuff Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
After we have discussed our results we'll have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Darren and good morning and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
As noted in the press release we were very pleased with our results for the first quarter really is a factor of 2 things: one on a current basis we're very pleased with the -- our performance on rigs avoiding downtime.
There's always going to be some sort of downtime.
We’ve had quarters in the past year where we just absolutely had minimal in terms of just a few days of downtime and that's an anomaly and something that can be repeated.
But the amount of times where we had rigs that were off contract were well within what our expectations are given the high standards that everybody looks forward these days.
And so that obviously impacted our results.
We were pleased with our cost as well.
We run a rigid budget system and tried to control costs whereas at the same time we're making sure that our vessels are maintained and are in proper working order.
We don't view those as trade-offs.
We think you can achieve both if you stay on top of your game.
And I think some evidence of that is we sold during the quarter the Ocean Columbia to Hercules and they were very pleased with the condition of that rig.
And we're glad to take that over.
And then secondly we'll talk about the market and most of our signings that we have are for future impact but obviously everybody's following the trends on what's happening with day rates in the current period.
In the fleet status report that we released just last night not sure that we had anything all that significant.
We've announced that we have a follow-on job for the Saratoga when it completes its well down in Guyana with CGX that we have one well a prospect back in the Gulf and we've got interest from several other customers for follow-on work.
There's really no other vessel in that class currently in the Gulf of Mexico.
So it's limited in water depth to probably around 2 000 feet.
But there's still a great number of prospects and work-over-work in various projects that could utilize that rig on a go-forward basis.
So we're pleased to bring that back to the Gulf of Mexico which will in effect double our U.S.
fleet because with the sale of Columbia we're now down to just one the Ocean Victory.
We announced a future commitment on the Ocean Victory not in this fleet status report but one earlier in the month.
We took 1 year of commitment on that rig and priced just a hair under $420 000 a day.
The vessel previous to that and is currently working on a 3.25 rate.
And of course the dates that one commitment was made versus another don't always line up.
But still almost a $100 000 jump well-to-well certainly indicates again the few rigs that are in that class that can service the 4 000- to 5 000-foot market on a mobed [ph] basis shows that there's great demand for that.
So that rig will be available in 2013.
And then shortly after our pricing one of our competitors now announced a similar rig -- similar capacity rig in the Gulf of Mexico at an even higher rate.
So again this reflects the few number of rigs which I think is somewhat related to the Macondo events.
As we and others took a number of rigs out of the Gulf of Mexico pursue opportunities around the world there are just actually very few of those rigs left here in the Gulf of Mexico.
And so with more buyers than you have sellers in there then it's natural that those rates have risen and continue to rise.
Now we're going to be able to service that market potentially in the Gulf of Mexico in addition with the Victory with the Ocean Onyx rig which is currently in Brownsville not due out until the middle of next summer.
But our expectations are that in the market similar to this that we'll be able to take some of the interest and we've had quite a bit of interest in that vessel and turn that into a commitment in advance of that.
I think around the rest of the world we haven't really had anything that's all that significant.
We signed a commitment to take a rig a jack-up currently operating in Egypt the Ocean Spur down to Ecuador and bareboat that vessel at a $30 000-a-day charter fee which we're pleased to do that.
We drilled off Ecuador previously and we had to take a rig out of Indonesia to service that.
And it just shows you that there are no rigs no available jack-up rigs on the West Coast of North and South America that you got to go that far to get a vessel.
But that sort of reflects that the jack-ups there are good prospects for those.
There continues to be interest in some of our older rigs in reselling those.
And we are -- we will pursue those opportunities or opportunities such as we've had in Mexico where we've been able to put rigs to work.
So I think that's the general survey of what's going on.
We also have the Ocean BlackRhino which again has a delivery date in mid-'14.
So we wouldn't really expect to be able to turn that into a job under normal circumstances till a little bit further down the road.
And we're certainly very comfortable with that as we survey the demand for those class of vessels particularly in West Africa.
But around the world we think that demand is very strong.
And the BlackRhino like its sister rigs the BlackHawk and the BlackHornet will be able to find a significant term commitment before it's delivered.
So with that I'm going to let Gary Krenek give you some more details on our cost and other financial matters that happened during the quarter.
Gary? Thanks Larry.
For the quarter we had contract drilling revenues of $755 million which is slightly above the prior quarter when we reported $734 million.
Likewise net income and earnings per share were very similar quarter-over-quarter with this quarter coming in at $185 million of net income and earnings per share of $1.33 as opposed to $1.36 last quarter.
So even though things were fairly similar there were a couple of items in our income statement that bear -- that were different.
One was as Larry said we had the sale of Ocean Columbia this past quarter.
We recorded a gain of approximately $16 million after-tax or $0.12 a share which increased earnings in the quarter.
That was offset by a higher tax rate in Q1 than Q4.
The Q1 tax rate came in at about 26.5% just slightly below our guidance as opposed to last quarter's tax rate which was 7.5%.
And if you recall from our last conversation last quarter that 7.5% was abnormal due to several year-end tax adjustments and accounting adjustments that were required for us to make.
Looking at some of the specific line items in the income statement contract drilling expense particularly we guided to $405 million to $420 million last quarter and we came in at $397 million.
Two reasons for this.
One we did have a little bit of cost that have been shifted from Q1 to Q2.
They're in a survey that we expected to do in Q1 has been shifted into Q2.
And so that will drive a little bit of the cost in the second quarter.
But the main reason was exactly what Larry said continued company worldwide effort to control costs and keep things within our budgets.
And again I'm happy to report we did a very good job on that in the first quarter.
G&amp;A and interest expense both came in close to where we expected.
Depreciation did come in a little bit lower than what we expected at $101.4 million.
And we will be adjusting our expectations for the rest of the year on depreciation.
I'll give that out in just a second.
And as I said our tax rate came in just a hair under what we had expected also.
Looking forward to the second quarter one of the main drivers of the results in our next quarter will be some of the survey time we have on a number of our rigs.
We're anticipating right now: 6 rigs will be in the shipyard for survey during Q2 5 semisubmersibles and 1 of our jack-ups.
These are all scheduled surveys and things that we released earlier letting people know that these rigs would be down in 2012.
I would point you to the rig status report that we received last night for individual rig names and the number of days and when these things are going to occur.
But that will affect our results in Q2.
Also 2 of our mid-water rigs will be mobing back to the Gulf of Mexico this quarter both the Saratoga that Larry spoke about and the Whittington.
So both of those mobes we will expense the entire mobe in Q2 in accordance with GAAP as opposed to having it amortized over a longer period of time.
So both of these the surveys and the mobes will affect both revenue and our cost lines in Q2.
Getting down to specifics.
Contract drilling expenses again will incur a normal operating cost which we released by rig type and region last quarter.
Those will be incurred.
In addition the 6 rigs in the shipyard doing the surveys each of those surveys will run anywhere between $3 million and $10 million each.
And combined we're expecting an additional cost of anywhere between $35 million to $40 million because of those surveys.
The cost to mobe the Saratoga and the Whittington back will add another $10 million to $12 million to our cost results.
And in addition the normal amortization of old mobes that we have every quarter will add another $17 million.
That's $17 million of amortized mobe for the most part is offset by amortized mobe revenues also.
So if you add all of that up we expect contract drilling expenses to be somewhere between $415 million to $430 million in Q2.
As always I remind you that is for the line contract drilling expenses only.
Reimbursable costs will be in addition to that amount.
G&amp;A similar to going forward $17 million $18 million just as we saw in the first quarter.
Depreciation as I said we've come down a little bit on that.
We're now expecting depreciation between $100 million to $103 million in Q2 and Q3 and more likely than not in Q4 also.
But we will continue to monitor whether we have any changes later in the year.
Interest expense also remains the same.
Our gross interest expense is $22 million per quarter.
We expect to capitalize about $7 million of that in the second quarter for a net interest expense on our income statement of $15 million.
The effective tax rate just a slight change.
We now expect that rate to be somewhere between 26% and 29% for the remainder of 2012.
And finally capital expenditures no change from prior guidance.
We expect $330 million of maintenance capital for the year and we also expect to spend about $220 million for our new builds.
A small portion of that the oversight of the drill ships in Korea but the bulk of the $220 million will be the Ocean Onyx being built down in Brownsville.
And with that I'll turn it back to Larry.
Okay.
I think we're ready for some questions.
Operator at this time we'd like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of the -- you got the one uncommitted deepwater new build.
But just the recent announcements of new constructions indicate a very attractive pricing environment for new builds.
So given the fact that beyond these -- looking beyond that one available rig you would seem to have the ability to do quite a bit more.
How do you assess the need for new builds if we were looking say for a new contract that would have a kind of a 2015 delivery? How far out do you see a demand for that type of asset? I'm talking about ultra-deepwater now.
Well I think we have comfort in our visibility through 2014.
As you get out into 2015 you can obviously construct a scenario based upon results of the exploration that will be taking place in '13 and '14 that would further increase the demand.
But it begins to be a little bit cloudy.
Having said that I wouldn't necessarily rule out that we would run from a commitment to build a new rig in 2015.
As you gladly pointed out the pricing is -- still remains very attractive.
And -- but beyond that it's our standard we're going to evaluate all opportunities to deploy capital to increase shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask you specifically about the deepwater market for West Africa.
We've heard some very very strong commentaries from others about that market.
Now you've got the Ocean Confidence there but then that will be coming to the Gulf.
And after that I think you would not have a rig in that market.
But do you share -- I mean based on the inquiries and tenders and pretenders you see you share a view that the West Africa market I mean not just Angola but the whole region has very -- is going to need a lot more rigs in the next few years? Robin yes we do share that view.
We've looked at the whole region country-by-country.
And in particular Angola and Nigeria you have the development work primarily with some exploration.
But all along the coastline we're seeing exploration programs and demand for deepwater rigs that's developing for '13 and '14 as Larry said.
So we continue to see that to be a strong market and we have the Valiant the Confidence there.
And obviously we'd consider the Onyx for that area.
So I believe it's going to be strong in the near future and a lot of opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> How was the outlook for the Saratoga and generally the demand outlook for mid-water in the Gulf this year with activity coming back? And do you anticipate a good steady stream of work beyond just the odd well contract after this Nexen [ph] project? Yes Ian we do.
We've got this contract with Nexen won with Saratoga.
But we're in discussions currently with some other operators.
And we believe that we can line up some fairly good term for the Saratoga.
As Larry said there's a significant interest not a lot of -- the only asset really in that class here in the Gulf of Mexico.
So we're confident that we can over the next year or 2 line some work up for the Saratoga and keep it busy here in the Gulf.
Research Division</strong> Apart from the possibility of commencing another fortune upgrade from one of your other cold stacked hauls is there a thought process right now for unstacking one of the other couple of mid-water rigs for the Gulf or for elsewhere? I think you're right.
We really have just one final Victory class haul.
And our decision whether or not to go forward on that would be dependent upon what that cost is.
At the same time that you got low new construction cost out there we certainly don't want to start spending upwards of that.
So it's highly dependent upon our decision to go forward as to what costs come forward on that.
As to the rest of the fleet they don't present the upgrade opportunities inherent in the Victory haul in our judgment.
And so you're right we would be talking about unstacking a rig for a particular market.
And again that's dependent upon what the make-ready cost is of the rig.
Certainly in the Gulf of Mexico there may be demand but we need to get the Saratoga put to bed before we would address that.
We have the Ocean New Era which is idle here.
And we're returning the Ocean Whittington out of Brazil into the Gulf of Mexico.
We need to assess condition of that rig before we'd make a decision there.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I joined in late so if you've already addressed this question I apologize for that.
But the Whittington as it comes in here and you go to the 5-year service what's the prospect for that rig? And what do you think the day rates is for that rig going forward? Well again I just said that we need to assess how much it costs to see what it does.
And then what kind of demand flows from the Saratoga and commitments that we get there.
We're certainly not going to flood the markets.
So those are the 2 variables that we still have to work out.
We have a guess on what both of those will -- how those will come out.
But the Whittington's a 1 500-foot rig and really dependent upon how much it costs.
And the demand in the Gulf of Mexico that would be likely where the rig would go to work.
Research Division</strong> So it's a -- if it's an obvious [ph] scenario if it costs like maybe $15 million $20 million to fix that you'll probably go ahead.
And what's the upper end beyond which you think that it's probably better to cold stack the rig? I don't know yet.
I really want to see the vessel and have our guys here in the U.S.
go over it.
Obviously we've been on it down there in Brazil and so we've got an issue.
But we’ve got to open up some tanks and assess that.
And at the kind of day rates that you're looking out on the Ocean Saratoga if there was demand for an additional unit you could easily bear cost that you described and more.
But the question is we have a standard that we want this rig to meet and we want to assure ourselves that it's not just a 2- or 3-year life that we can get it out there and be competitive for the next 10 years.
So I really can't answer that until we perform our studies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now how long does it take to complete those studies? Is it like a couple of weeks couple of months how long does it take? Once we get the rig here we'll get a team on there assess it.
The assessment will take a few weeks on board the rig because we're going to have to open tanks and things like that.
Then when we get all reports and it'll take a few more weeks.
So I'd say you're probably looking at a couple of months.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Larry I know there's some pride in being the largest U.S.
offshore driller.
But any updated thoughts on redomestication especially considering smaller presence in the Gulf of Mexico than you’ve had historically? I know it's been talked about in the past as competitors have done it and I know you probably get a lot of questions during that time but just wanted to know if you guys have looked at that again here recently? We do look at it.
I think one of the factors and I don't know the answer to it but I think it would be certainly a concern is that you need to relocate to a jurisdiction that you have a significant business presence in.
And Rowland and Ensco had that presence in the U.K and I don't think that we do with 3 rigs in the U.K.
And in fact our fleet is so widely dispersed the only place that we have such a significant concentration would be Brazil.
And I don't believe that that's an appropriate -- that even the Brazilian tax regime itself is not welcoming.
And I'm not sure that we want to be a Brazilian company.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Gary just a kind of housekeeping item.
On the op cost for the Spur as a bareboat charter how should we be thinking of those? Minimal.
We'll have a couple of guys on there in rig insurance.
So $2 000 a day $2 500 something like that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A question on your costs going forward.
First of all did I hear you -- did you make any changes to your full year cost guidance? No we did not.
We're staying behind what we said last time.
Research Division</strong> So it seems like the last year or so the entire industry has kind of struggled kind of giving you a handle on costs.
And it seems like everybody seems to have got much better handle on that.
I was just wondering if you could just kind of talk through what are some of the variables as you think about your cost structure.
Like what have been some of the changes? Obviously with your position in the Gulf and how everything has kind of changed there what's different now than a couple of years ago? What's harder to manage and kind of where do you see some of the variables? I'm just wondering if maybe some of the costs that we're forecasting our models actually might be conservative at this stage.
Well the 2 big variables and it's the 2 components the central components of our costs are labor and then expenditures on maintaining rigs and for rig supplies.
And I would caution anybody to say that we're being too conservative on our numbers.
The labor as you know there's -- if you calculate all the rigs that are coming out of new construction rigs will require almost 20 000 personnel -- trained personnel to step into those positions.
So we believe that competition for labor will continue to be fierce.
And so that scenario where we would see increased cost potentially.
And some of that is baked into our numbers.
But other parts of it we don't really control.
We want to be competitive and we want to compensate our people appropriately.
On rig expenditures under -- this would be a change.
A couple of years ago we would have said "Okay we know the condition of our rigs.
As they get older we have to spend a little bit more money.
We understand that.” We could project that.
But as we stand today there are increasing variables.
To take an obvious example BOP.
Our maintenance procedure's BOP inspection procedures that are being promulgated by various regulatory agencies and they also impact other things on a rig.
So those are costs that are potentially going up.
And those regulations they're not all fully in place yet.
So those are the things that I would look at that have the ability to increase our cost even in the short-term.
The only other thing I would add is for Diamond Offshore specifically you’re talking about a couple of years ago versus now and our costs have increased because of our relocation rigs outside the Gulf of Mexico.
And certainly the Gulf is one of the cheapest areas in the world to work right now.
And as we've relocated our rigs overseas we have seen our cost increase because of that.
Research Division</strong> I would have thought some respects that as you move out of the Gulf you'd have less pressure on the maintenance side.
Is this not just -- it just seems to me like obviously there's been a big focus on the Gulf but this is also been kind of translate to all the other regions? Is it just because the operators I guess are all global or...
Well there are other regulatory regimes Brazil the U.K.
Norway Australia which are -- also have standards.
But we can't just take a rig and go overseas and say "Well don't worry about that anymore." I mean we try to run a consistent operation.
Our customers expect that and we expect that of ourselves.
So that's not the case.
And Gary mentions increased cost.
Brazilian labor is very expensive right now.
It exceeds U.S.
labor probably with all the benefits and burden that it goes along with that.
You got travel costs as you bring people over Brazil.
You've got upwards of 40% to 60% duties on various pieces of equipment that you bring in.
You've got the cost of transporting that equipment.
Angola where we operate is a very high-cost environment as well.
Everything that you bring into the country food and all that stuff is much higher.
And it's those kind of factors that really drive up the cost.
So that even if we said and we're not okay we're going to flak off on paint jobs all these other costs would more than offset that.
Research Division</strong> Speaking of Brazil obviously they got this big new build program going on and most people seem to think it’s going to get delayed.
But as you think a little bit further out in terms of that market do you get concerned that this could be a place you could get squeezed with the local guys? And how do you protect against that risk? Well we know there are.
We have competed with local guys down there for a long time and they have a particular share of the market.
I think the -- what I'll characterized as the traditional legacy contractors that we provide a particular service that gets contracted.
And as you noted it's not going to be easy to build the number of rigs that they're talking about in brand-new drill -- shipyards in Brazil they're going to give it a good go.
They're intelligent people.
But I think that will not transform overnight.
And when you look at the size of their geological prospects that they're drilling on it's going to require active high efficiency rigs going at it now.
If you wait the period of time that it's going to take to deliver all of these rigs and then get started I mean you've taken significant cash flow from increased production and kicked it down the road 7 to 10 years.
So if you do all the math on that I think in the foreseeable future that the U.S.
guys are not necessarily going to be squeezed out whether or not Brazil builds rigs locally or continues to contract from the outside.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lawrence with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the General which is idle in Malaysia.
What's the opportunity for that rig in the near-term? John we have had a period where the rig’s been idle after the shipyard.
But we're currently in contract negotiations with a couple of different customers that I think once we get the rig going back here in the next couple of months that we'll see some term work buildup behind the rig.
We've just had a period here that kind of caught us out a little bit and there wasn't a lot of work coming out of the market at that time.
But we're confident in the rig going forward in that area.
And I think you'll see some term start building up behind the rig.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good to hear.
And then just a question on asset sales are they rigs that you're actively marketing now for sale? Well some of our older jack-ups we've had interest in.
It’s really the market that generates we don't -- we're not out there with a big sales banner that says come and get it.
But -- and some of our idle semis have some interest in there.
And this is no different I believe than programs that are being followed by many of our other competitors that have substantial older jack-up fleet that there's quite a few number of those rigs out there for sale.
And it seems like to me that the buyers their discriminating factor is the condition of the rig that puts you at the top of line.
And in general I'm very pleased with the condition of some of our rigs.
So actually we get --- we had quite a few inquiries.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So would you say interest is picking up? I think when you looked at -- the market itself is picking up that we've got this job for the Spur that we've got other jobs that are out there.
I think that goes hand-in-hand with generating interest from folks that may want to acquire a rig or 2.
Your next question comes from the line of Douglas Becker with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I want to dig into the operating costs just a little bit more.
How much is the bareness getting pushed to the second quarter save in the first quarter? Somewhere in the order of probably $4 million or $5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you’ve still have come in toward the low end of the guidance you have provided.
Just where are you finding the cost savings? And I guess as we think about second quarter what would drive cost toward that high end of the range just the survey's taking longer? That's one potential.
Where we're finding the cost savings Doug is really just in the normal operation of the rig and a lot of our repair costs supplies things like that.
And we continue to hold those costs down what we call S&amp;R supply and repair.
What could drive that cost up of course are the surveys.
The fact that we have 6 of them in $35 million to $40 million hard to really judge exactly how much going to spend when you're in the shipyards.
Also just -- again normal breakdowns of the rig normal repair of our equipment could drive it into the higher end of that range.
And we've seen that in the past.
We said we've done a real good job on holding those down and we're really proud of that.
Research Division</strong> Yes definitely.
And then just a question for Larry just a little perspective here.
How would you compare the floater market today to 2006 2007 maybe early 2008 just as things were tightening up particularly as it pertains to the mid-water just dollars and differences? We have more speculative capacity coming in on the ultra-deepwater side than we did back in that point in time.
But just kind of your perspective on the differences from that cycle? I think that they are very similar.
I don't know what -- where we compare to the point in time in that cycle which really kicked off in the summer of '04.
So we're probably just as similar to '05.
I guess one big difference is in the '04 '05 cycle when that kicked off rigs were -- it'd mean more idle rigs and you had much lower day rates.
The valley between that last period of appropriate returns for drilling contractors and today is -- was really not that bad.
You had the financial crisis impact things and all that.
I mean but we rolled into this with many rigs working at substantial rates of return and substantial income.
So the moves I think have not been as dramatic on a percentage basis.
And when you're coming off a place where fourth-generation rigs were going into the cycle at 70 or 80 and ultimately finish at 5 to 600 there was a huge room to move.
And here you're coming off rigs that were in the 300s for that class of rig maybe 200s in some case.
And we're headed now into the 400s.
So but again each time we never -- as in '04 if you ask me I mean I wouldn't have predicted that we would end it up through that cycle with rigs in the upper 500s and 600s for the fourth-generation rigs.
So I'm hesitant to say what the cap is going to be in this cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of David Smith with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Quick housekeeping question.
I caught the 2Q '12 OpEx guidance I didn't catch the full year OpEx guidance update.
It remains consistent with what we said before which was $1.650 billion.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciated.
And one other -- a follow-up question with the shipyard activity picking up do you see risks to survey cost trending higher over time or is that a service that doesn’t fluctuate much? It will fluctuate as you see in certain areas particularly say in Singapore and places like that we will see an increase in cost as they contract more and more.
Some maybe even in the Gulf of Mexico.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And with your vast experience in the up cycle is that something that can be 5% to 10% inflation? Or is that a higher number risk? It just depends on each particular yard and how hungry they are.
Normally we can maintain a pretty level standard by picking and choosing and doing certain analysis to go to the particular yards.
Well thank you very much.
We'll see everybody at various events and talk to you again next quarter.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Maria and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty to begin.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Acuff Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
After we have discussed our results we'll have a question-and-answer session.
We ask that you please limit it to 1 question and a follow-up so that we can open the floor to as many people as possible.
And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you and welcome again to everyone for joining us.
We were very pleased obviously with the results that we reported for the quarter.
And I will start by making some comments on the operating results and some of our future dayrates.
So I'll be followed by Michael Acuff who will elaborate more on markets around the world in an opening statement.
And then Gary Krenek who's our CFO will make some further commentary on the numbers that are in this quarter and how those may impact us on a go-forward basis.
First on the operations removing the items related to the sale of the jack-ups we still substantially performed above our budget and the average industry consensus.
And one thing I'd like to comment on there we've got lots of initiatives ongoing that have been in place for a long time and some of those really were approved in this quarter particularly efforts to reduce unplanned downtime.
We came in at 60 days of unplanned downtime.
In other words things that result from equipment breaking or being taken offline where the rig has to suspend the operations during the quarter -- the past 2 quarters.
And on a budgetary basis we have experienced in the 140-day range and that's what we set as our budget for the year.
We have previously performed better than that.
We did a 110 days I think at end of last year.
And we were in the 60s if you go back several years.
But we were very pleased with that.
And that's a reflection of our preventive maintenance program and the amount of spares that we have so that if equipment fails we're able to very rapidly get that replaced.
And I'll just give you an example that's happened here right at the beginning of July.
It wasn't in the quarter but it's typical.
On one of our rigs during a routine maintenance inspection one of our employees noted that some shivs [ph] on the [indiscernible] compensator on a big rig appeared to have a crack.
And I've seen photographs of what he looked at.
And given the condition with grease and sea spray and all kind of things on it it was really a tremendous catch.
The rig was able to obviously -- again on top of this instead of having a catastrophic failure that could have had a -- been down for a longer period of time but could have potential for injuries.
We're able to get -- plan what we're going to do.
Our initial plan was it may take 4 days but due to the competency of our crews and great planning they were able to execute this change in under 55 hours.
So those are the kind of efforts that are going on all of the time out there.
And if you think about the difference between 140 days of downtime and 60 days of downtime that 80 days of savings if our average rate were at $300 000 that's $24 million in a quarter or about $0.12 to $0.13 that we would save as a result of that.
So we're not always going to be able to achieve that but we're certainly working hard to do that.
Additionally our operating expenses were within or below budget across-the-board.
Again we're planning making sure that we've got everything maintained in great shape gives you the opportunity to deliver those kind of numbers.
Moving beyond that and looking at the contracts that we announced obviously the Ocean Onyx we were very pleased.
We've worked for some time with Apache in -- a great customer.
We enjoy working for them.
The Onyx will be working in the Gulf of Mexico.
So work is being done on that rig in Brownsville so that it will be delivered and we will not have a long mobe with off time to get it to mid-water markets.
And we're pleased with that.
And again this reflects our faith in the deepwater market and particularly in a  [indiscernible] solution which is not always a [indiscernible] solution but there a number of places where this plays out very well.
Recently we had announced the Ocean Victory a little bit lesser capacity rig.
It signed a job at $420 million.
So this is a nice follow-on at these rates.
And I'll remind everybody that our cost of delivering this kind of capacity on Ocean Onyx is $300 million versus our newbuilds and we're pursuing those projects as well nearer the $650 million rate.
And the newbuilds -- we've seen some higher higher dayrate recently obviously [indiscernible] but there you're spending half of capital to deliver that.
And our operating costs were greatly reduced on the Ocean Onyx because of the more simplistic design yet it is still able to deliver the capability that's out there that's demanded by our customers.
And there's very little competition in this space to be able to deliver rigs of this nature.
In fact we only have 1 more Victory-class rig in [indiscernible] the Ocean Bounty.
That's located -- cold stacked in Singapore.
And we are in the process of completing final engineering so that we may proceed further with a similar project on that particular rig.
And then next we announced 3 big contracts in the North Sea.
And I think Michael will be covering a lot of the deepwater market.
But I would just say that this is reflective of an [indiscernible] a very strong market today.
I don't know -- it wasn't too much long ago that the North Sea was generally condemned and majors are moving out of there as those don't have a [indiscernible] future.
Yet we see this again and again in provinces that become re-energized based upon not only market conditions but new technologies that come out that enable our customers to make use of quicker ways to bring product onstream.
There's a Brent premium right now.
There has been for some time and that makes the [indiscernible] work very well.
It's very close to infrastructure.
The drilling is not at great depths.
You do have weather issues.
But beyond that it's a great area to drill in.
And it's been a province of independence.
We [indiscernible] Petroleum is our customer on the Ocean Nomad.
Our Ocean Princess is working right now.
It continues to work for Enquest.
But we've seen Shell come forward.
Shell is very active and already have the Ocean Guardian on a 2-year contract.
And yet as they look now on the road they elected to add a third year on that contract to $350 million.
And as the Vanguard which is in Norway with Statoil we got a 20-month extension as we noted and a nice increase.
So all of that being said there's continued opportunities for our customers to explore and bring on production in mid-waters in the North Sea both Norway and U.K.
And it's a market where there's not a lot of new capacity or any capacity being brought on.
It's a market where there's barriers to bringing rigs in.
So it's very strong there.
And I'll let Michael make any further comments on North Sea and also how that impacts worldwide.
The last thing I'll talk about here is the sale of jack-ups.
We sold the Ocean Sovereign here in the quarter.
And on top of the other jack-ups that we've sold we continued to remove some of the older lesser capacity jack-ups from our fleet.
I would say we have -- our focus is on ultra-deep deep and mid-water units.
And we continue to market those rigs around the world.
We have a core of high-capacity jack-ups that are in Mexico and we are planning to continue that.
But the rest of our rigs which are right now scattered around the world jack-ups in 1 or 2 in different markets we have been actively moving to sell those.
And the market is such that we're able to bid those right now.
So again a very pleasing quarter for us.
Michael do you want to expand on the market? Sure.
Thank you Larry.
Looking at the market starting with ultra-deepwater segment.
The ultra-deepwater market remains robust.
We got -- seen demand continuing to materialize in the Gulf of Mexico West Africa and East Africa.
[Audio Gap] Again we're very positive on the ultra-deepwater market with significant data points being developed every day.
Okay.
Operator? We're being told we're getting calls in but no one's hearing us.
[Technical Difficulty] Are we in now? Okay.
I am going to just start over briefly.
I don't know where we were cut off.
And I apologize but I've been told that for some time they were all broadcast.
You always have one line that we heard now [ph].
Okay.
So I'm being told that my statement was heard and we'll start over with the marketing report from Michael Acuff.
All right.
Take 2.
Okay.
Now looking at the market -- we'll start with the ultra-deepwater segment.
The ultra-deepwater market remains robust and we continue to see demand materialize in the Gulf of Mexico West Africa and East Africa.
We expect certainly new contract announcements here in the near term and in the next few months possibly occupying up to 10 rigs in this segment.
And with this we believe now that 2013 is close to being sold-out and expect demand to continue to materialize into 2014 looking at the availability of rigs in that timeframe.
An example of this there are multiple tenders out right now outstanding that could take an additional 5 rigs off the market in 2014 and we continue to see this come on as we go forward and expect more in the near future.
With respect to pricing the recent announcements by some of our competitors clearly show that the market is now in the high 500s for 3- to 5-year term work.
And we don't expect this to change as we go throughout the remainder of this year.
Looking at the deepwater segment it continues to be strong with the Gulf of Mexico and Africa West Africa leading the demand.
The recent Central U.S.
Gulf of Mexico lease sale highlights the increased activity that we think is coming into the ultra-deepwater and deepwater market in the Gulf of Mexico where sales generated approximately $1.7 billion in winning bids.
So it's a bright future we believe for the Gulf.
Dayrates continue to increase with leading-edge rates in the high 400s to low 500s as seen with the rigs and fixtures including the Onyx.
And finally we don't see any new supply coming into this segment other than what we've added recently with the Onyx and potentially the other rig Larry mentioned.
So we continue to see this to be a tight market going forward and look positively on it.
Turning to the mid-water this market is operating really as 2 distinct segments at the moment.
You've got the very strong U.K.
and Norwegian North Sea market that Larry mentioned.
And then you got a steady to slightly increasing market in the remaining international segment or geographic regions.
As you can see from the extensions that we've recently announced yesterday we're taking rigs now into 2015 and the resulting dayrates are continuing to increase.
So the U.K.
and North Sea and Norway is leading the charge and we don't see a real visible end to this demand as we have customers continue to request rig time going forward.
In essence 2013 in the North Sea is sold-out now.
And like I say we continue to have discussions so we'll see how those develop and what capacity is available for them.
Looking at the Gulf of Mexico and other international locations in the mid-water market.
And it continues to be a steady and slightly increasing market.
We produced -- we continue to see additional demand coming online typically in the 6- to 9-month range with a bit of pricing power as we go forward but a very steady market at the moment.
So one of the things we wanted to address in this call was to look at our mid-water fleet and how we see it going through the regions going forward.
Of course I discussed the North Sea where we had 4 units or 25% of our fleet in this very strong market.
We have 5 additional units with Petrobras and PEMEX and they continue to utilize those with contracts out until late 2014 and 2015.
Of course there's been some news recently with OGX out of Brazil.
I will speak there are 3 mid-water units currently under contract.
The Ambassador is contracted until September of 2012; the Ocean Lexington which is currently contracted until February of 2013; and the Ocean Quest under contract until the end of 2013.
Based on our conversations with OGX we're currently discussing follow-on work for the Ambassador with other customers assuming the rig will be released in September of this year.
We also believe that they will re-lease the Lexington at the end of the contract in February 2013 and are already working on a follow-on term contract in direct continuation of that.
We are encouraged by both of these discussions and we'll continue to update you as things develop.
Finally the Quest has approximately 18 months left on its contract and we're comfortable with the rig's position with OGX there.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico the Saratoga recently finished its contract with Nexen.
And it's currently hot stacked awaiting its next contract.
We believe the next contract will commence towards the end of the summer and should provide a steady stream of term work into 2013.
In Asia we announced new contracts on both the Patriot and General.
This should keep them utilized into the first quarter of 2013 and are already seeing other operators line up to secure rig time behind these contracts.
So with these rigs utilized or anticipating contracts as I mentioned that really only leaves the Ocean Whittington which is currently undergoing evaluation to estimate the requirements for that rig to return to work.
So in summary of our 16 mid-water units in our fleet 4 are exposed to very strong North Sea market and has significant term contracts; 5 are on long-term contracts with NOCs; and the remaining 6 are finding steady 6- to 9-month jobs with continued exposure to the increased pricing in the market as it improves.
Again that only leaves the Whittington.
And I think -- so you can see why we're pretty comfortable with our mid-water portfolio position and the cash flow stream that it produces.
With that summary of my market Gary? Okay.
Thanks Michael.
As always I'll make a few comments on this past quarter and we'll turn to what to expect in Q3 and Q4 and the remainder of this year.
Looking at our results for the second quarter we reported after-tax net income of $201 million or $1.45 a share.
That's up slightly from our Q1 report of $185 million after-tax income or $1.33 per share.
We did that despite contract drilling revenues decreasing from Q1 of $755 million to $726 million in Q2.
The decrease in revenues was driven by the fact that we have 5 rigs down for special surveys in Q2 just as we had forecasted in our last conference call and reflected in our rig status report.
This is versus only 1 down in the first quarter.
This reduction in revenue was mitigated by the very good unplanned downtime that Larry talked about in his opening statement.
And that [indiscernible] helped offset downtime for the special surveys that we had.
As pointed out in the press release we have 2 significant items outside of revenues that affected our earnings.
Again we have 5 jack-ups that we reported sold during the quarter: the Sovereign the Heritage and 3 of our mat jack-ups.
These -- the sale of these jack-ups resulted in about $15.5 million worth of gain or $0.36 per share after tax.
The bulk gains reported on 2 of these rigs the Sovereign and the Heritage which was a vast majority of the total gain of $50 million had no current tax expense associated with them.
The result of them being owned by non-U.S.
subsidiaries in which profits are indefinitely reinvested and thus not subject to the current U.S.
taxes.
In other words we had a 0 tax rate on the gains on these rigs.
Which brings us to our second significant item in our income statement our Q2 tax rate of 18.4%.
The 18.4% was driven by a couple of items.
One just normal geography changes in our estimated earnings in the year between domestic and international as we always had.
Also the treatment from a tax standpoint for -- of capitalized interest that we recorded on the Ocean Blackline [ph] which we announced in the second quarter.
These 2 had small effects on our tax rate dropping it slightly.
But primarily the factoring in of the additional $50 million a gain on the Sovereign and the Heritage was 0 tax rate.
It was the main reason that the tax rate was driven down as far as it was.
These 3 items will also affect the ongoing tax rate for the remainder of the year and I'll talk about that in a second.
Looking at some of the specific line items on our income statement in Q2 contract drilling expense we had guidance of $415 million $430 million; and we actually came in at $405 million.
Several reasons for this: One we thought we were going to begin a survey on the Whittington in Q2.
We did not begin that work.
We're still assessing the condition in that rig as Michael talked about.
And we also benefited from the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
These 2 items would have brought us up close to the low-end of our guidance maybe just slightly below.
The rest of the favorable variance on our contract drilling expense due as Larry said to our concentrating on cost control out there on the rigs and also the reduced unplanned downtime.
Less unplanned downtime means less broken equipment plus repairs.
And that benefited us not only on the revenue side but here on the cost side.
Looking at a few of the other line items G&amp;A was $18.7 million which was within our guidance.
Depreciation was just slightly below what we guided to and that was driven by the sale of the Sovereign and the impact of spending depreciation on that rig.
Interest was lower.
We had guided $15 million and actually came in at $12.7 million.
This again is attributable to capitalized interest on the Ocean black line and deposit.
And finally of course the tax rate was substantially lower.
Other than gain on sale of assets on the income statement there was nothing really on the income statement of note.
Looking forward to the third quarter one of the main drivers again will be downtime to the rig surveys.
As we've been saying for some time now both 2012 and 2013 are going to be heavy survey years for us.
So this should come as no surprise what we've reported in the rig status report.
In the third quarter we're anticipating that 6 rigs will be down for survey 3 of them will begin in their surveys in the quarter; 3 others were actually participating in surveys at Q2 ended and then will complete their surveys in the third quarter.
In addition the Ocean Summit our jack-up down in Mexico will be down for about 60 days doing some planned repairs and also some modifications required by PEMEX contract.
A couple other rigs with scheduled downtime and again I refer you to the rig status report for details on exactly what rig and what timing those will occur.
This downtime of course will affect both revenues and cost in Q3.
Getting down to some of the specifics contract drilling expense we will again incur the normal daily operating cost by rig type and region that we gave out earlier in the year.
In addition the 6 rigs in the shipyard for survey each survey will run somewhere between $3 million and $10 million of additional cost and will add about $25 million to $30 million for our total cost.
We will also incur an additional about $12 million of amortized mobe cost.
And again these amortized mobe costs will be offset almost dollar-for-dollar by amortized mobe revenues.
If you add all of that up we expect contract drilling expense for the third quarter to be somewhere between $410 million to $425 million.
Again I remind everybody that this $410 million to $425 million is for contract drilling expenses only.
Reimbursable costs are not included in the amount I just gave you.
If you look at those 2 together you can just add another $10 million to $15 million worth of reimbursable costs which will be offset also almost dollar-for-dollar by reimbursable revenues.
The other line item G&amp;A remains the same.
Guidance as before is $17 million to $19 million a quarter.
Depreciation slightly lower guidance down to $99 million to $101 million per quarter both for Q3 and Q4.
And interest expense we now believe of the $22 million worth of gross interest expense will capitalize about $10 million in Q3 and Q4 which will leave us a net of about $11 million worth of expense.
This again is an increased -- or the expenses decreased because of black line [ph].
The effective tax rate we believe will now for Q3 and Q4 be somewhere between 22% and 25%.
This reduction from prior guidance is a result of accounting rules which has you spread of the 0 tax rate that was recorded on the sale of the jack-ups not just in the quarter that occurred but you spread that over -- equally over all 4 quarters in the year.
So again 22% to 25% going forward.
And finally capital expenditures we now believe maintenance capital will be somewhere in the $320 million range.
And our new-build because of the black line [ph] and the Onyx will be somewhere around $400 million for the year ended 2012 which gives us a total of $720 million.
One other item I'd like to mention before turning it back to Larry.
For those who may have missed it during the quarter our credit rating was upgraded by Moody's to A3.
This rating brings us in line with our Standard &amp; Poor's rating of A- we've had for some time now.
With this upgrade Diamond Offshore is now the only contract driller with an A3 or an A- rating in our industry a reflection of the solid balance sheet and strong financial profile.
And with that I'll hand it back to Larry.
Okay.
So we're ready for questions.
Operator we'll open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the -- your comment on the mid-water market very strong in the North Sea and kind of steady elsewhere.
So kind of what does that imply then for the Ambassador and Lexington which you expect to have available now later this year? I didn't quite -- you said you're looking at various market opportunities for that -- those types of rigs but is there a need to upgrade significantly if they work outside of Brazil? No I think the North Sea has some unique attributes which is -- it's been moving -- that market has been moving for some time.
And I think that the rest of the world is at an earlier stage.
There's still by and large pricing off the Brent model so you've got a nice income stream.
And there are so many different markets so you're not always -- whereas [ph] the infrastructure but we're certainly seeing a lot of interest around the world.
And I think Michael is just cautioning that at this stage we can anticipate increasing dayrate but it would -- if the market is not set up as strong as the North Sea.
We want to make sure everybody was aware of that.
And Robin to your point on the Ambassador and the Lexington we don't see a requirement to upgrade the rigs for the jobs that we're discussing at the moment.
So we see the rigs as is as being a marketable asset with interest from several customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
So let's see -- so while we're on the topic of Brazil how do you see the demand for rigs over the next year? I mean clearly you've got a couple of ultra-deepwater rigs yet to be -- for '14 availability.
Is that a market that you're looking at for those rigs or is it largely elsewhere? Well we've had a huge position down in Brazil and we expect to continue that.
And we enjoyed servicing both those customers there.
But all things being equal for diversification reasons we would prefer to have those rigs I believe working in other markets just to spread things around the world.
When we bought Valor and Courage in 2009 we put both of those in Brazil.
So I think that's got some high-end assets there.
And with that we'd like to see those rigs work elsewhere.
Your next question comes from the line Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Larry you mentioned that you're completing your engineering study on the Bounty.
But certainly the contract that you've got for the Onyx makes that project look like a no-brainer assuming there's nothing fatally wrong with the whole.
So correct me if I'm wrong there and what do you think your turnaround time would be for getting that rig delivered if you're able to move as quickly as you would like to? I think we would be -- we would likely be doing that work in Singapore where they are much more active.
When we are able to get the Onyx into Brownsville there wasn't a lot of competition.
So I think we've got a great schedule there at 18 months.
So we would be between 18 months and 2 years I suspect to deliver out of Singapore.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you think that you could be kicking this off by the fourth quarter of this year? So we're pretty advanced on engineering.
And so it would be really coming down now to contract terms if we would be able to develop between various shipyards.
But I would say -- I mean the thing is certainly advanced I can't tell you there's a bunch of hurdles left to go but we're not ready to say we're pulling the trigger on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You've had some good success with your jack-up sales.
Are you still looking to prune those leaks with jack-ups or mid-water rigs? Or do you think that you're more or less finished with that aspect of fleet renewal for the time being? Well we said on the sales front that our core jack-ups are all located in Mexico.
Conceivably we could bring the team into Mexico.
But the other rigs that we've got there we would continue to look to sell those and really trying to go on a go-forward basis to be looking at operating a worldwide semi-fleet and operating 4 to 5 jack-ups in Mexico.
It certainly move somewhere else.
But for -- right now that's -- I mean we see our fleet are going forward and we could conceivably sell.
We've got a couple of cold stacked semis and some of those could be sold.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Michael did you comment on the near-term outlook for the Saratoga and when that rig might get a contract either this summer or this autumn potentially? Yes no idea.
What we're looking at Ian is probably late summer early autumn.
Of course hurricane season in the Gulf has a little bit of an effect.
But we're in discussions now and we think that'll materialize fairly soon and we'll keep you updated on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have quite a follow-up on Larry Ian and Gary you guys mentioned the focus on unplanned -- on bringing down the unplanned downtime obviously you've done a great job with that so kudos on that front.
I'm just trying to get a better understanding though.
You've referenced something about planning for what -- I think you said 140 days per year.
And now you can -- you ran less than that last year at one time the obvious hiccup...
140 days was the quarterly amount of downtime that we ran from the past 3 quarters.
When we sat down and did our budget we projected that we would run a 140 days per quarter of unplanned downtime.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Great.
That clarifies that.
I appreciate that.
The second question I have for you on the OGX rates.
It looks like they're going to become available to the marketplace.
Do you expect that you're going to need to do any work on those rigs in transition -- to transition them it sounds like out of Brazil into other markets.
How should we be thinking about that transition period? In general we shouldn't have to do major work.
The contracts or the discussions we're having on the Lexington wouldn't require anything significant.
When we look at the Ambassador it depends on where that rig goes to.
If it goes to international standard market we wouldn't expect any major out of service or uprate time.
If it goes to say Mexico you have to do some work that prepares the rig for that particular market and the contract requirements.
So in general we're not expecting major out-of-service time on it for upgrades.
But again it's a bit customer and market-dependent on where it ends up.
So the one factor I'd point is that Brazil is our highest cost market except for Norway.
And so even if dayrates were even flat to relocate to Mexico which we did recently with the Yorktown we picked up a significant amount of savings on cost line that gave us a net of -- I mean certainly an improved margin on the same dayrate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
The last follow-up I would have for you is that you've got the -- Diamond is in a situation where you've gone -- you're trying to maintain balance between obtaining kind of dividend yield that a lot of investors have become accustomed to expect and at the same time trying to renew your fleet.
Can you just give us an update on how you're looking at that balancing act as we head out into 2013? Well they're clearly both important to us.
And to-date we've got 5 major projects underway before [indiscernible] oil ships and the Onyx.
If we added the Bounty to the mix then that would be 6 major projects.
I think the ratings upgrade that Moody's gave us was based in part on our very low leverage level.
We think that if we need to we can leverage to maintain our fleet reinvestment and this cash flows that were reflected on the contracts that we announced today which were in the range of $800 million of future cash flow.
And of course that won't kick in for a while.
But all that show that there's adequate cash flows to continue dividends at this current level although we set them at each quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Collin Gerry from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the prior question.
Could you remind us how much of your cash balance or marketable securities is held in U.S.
cash versus foreign cash? And just if you see in the foreseeable future a repatriating event in order to sustain the dividend? Our domestic cash balance is fine.
We've run projections and we don't see a problem with that for several years at a very minimum.
Remember the much of the new-build program is being done as part of our international portion of our business.
And therefore that's where earnings that are coming from the international part are going to.
So that's not an issue for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to clarify on that.
And then my other somewhat nitpicky question.
You mentioned that currency exposure was a little bit of a variance in the OpEx versus what your guidance was.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color in terms of maybe the magnitude and also how that -- how currency kind of flows through the cost line? Specifically what currencies may be affected? What -- I'm sorry what currencies would be affected? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Was it the U.S.
versus the Brazilian real or is it more the U.K.
rigs that saw a cost or currency fluctuation? It was across-the-board.
The amount came to $4 million or $5 million so it was not a significant amount.
But you couple that with other things in order to get to where our guidance was.
And it was across-the-board.
It was not isolated to 1 currency.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lawrence of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With '12 and '13 being heavy survey years is there any risk that some of those rigs don't go back to work after the surveys or is the outlook fairly positive for most of those? We generally would do not do a survey unless we were very confident that the rig would go back to work.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kind of a follow-up on Kurt's query.
Is it -- if you look at it and you look at it with the new-build program timing could be a little bit fluctuating between when it hits.
But you have some financing needs and you have to kind of balance that against the dividends.
So I guess my question as it goes especially as I talked to clients and hear some pushback on the name is what is sort of the level -- especially given your comments around the credit rating you're willing to take leverage and are we willing to sit there and build leverage at the same time as raising dividend? Is that something that's a no-no? Is that kind of a nonstarter? Or is that something that earnings grow dividends should grow and just in the near term your willingness to raise debt levels as a percentage of capital? Well did we -- we're not -- we can't give guidance on what our future dividends would be.
But I guess I would state that dividends are very important to us.
If you understand our capital structure and investment -- who our investors are you can really understand it that we believe strongly in dividends.
In the last cycle we raised dividends fairly aggressively but we did not have the new-build and fleet renewal programs going on that we do now.
So obviously that year - everybody's correct to see that it was a factor.
And as you know it is a balancing act.
But other than that I can't give you any future guidance.
The yield that's present right now on an annual run rate with our special dividend is very very attractive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Certainly.
And maybe to kind of ask it in a slightly different way then to try and to kind of get the parameters is there kind of a base cash level that you'd like to maintain? And just more specifically with regard to debt ratios and your credit rating is there a parameter which you'd worry about that levels would go above and you'd worry about that rating? Obviously that gets out of hand when you worry about the rating.
But as Gary noted we do projections on our fleet renewal and make some assumptions on what we're going to do with that cash.
And within the bounds of how we read the market we don't see anything that would imperil our new-build program imperil our credit rating or imperil payment of dividends.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Did you -- in terms of credit rating because I think there's varying opinions across your peers is there -- I mean how much a positive impact do you think you'll get out of having a higher rating versus a lower rating in terms of interest costs or expenses? I think there'd be some impact I think it is fairly small but -- it's the life of a bond several million dollars.
Darren it's Gary.
For example on a 10-year bond we have been told by the banks that a higher credit rating is worth anywhere from 10 and 20 basis points.
So $500 million bond 10 years that's up to $10 million over the life of the bond.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wow.
Okay.
And if I could just ask one more.
In terms of mid-water in the Gulf of Mexico you've obviously kind of covered in a call where some of the strength has been in the market.
I don't know if you really mentioned the Gulf given the kind of probably latent development work there and probably some plugging and abandonment work especially in the mid-water.
I mean is there -- what are we seeing there? As we stated earlier with Saratoga I mean we see demand coming.
You're correct there's significant amount of P&amp;A work that needs to be done.
That fits well with the Saratoga in the Gulf.
And we think that this is out in the future.
There's several operators that have these programs that they need to do.
So that's definitely a source of demand going forward for us in the Gulf as you don't see as much exploration and development work but the P&amp;A work is I think going to be pretty strong going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Scholl of Clarkson Capital.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's Trey filling in for Todd today.
Looking at the mid-water floater environment and the opportunity to probably move those rigs is it more likely that you would want to get those both in the same region or does that factor into it at this point? Really it doesn't factor into it.
We -- you may have a little bit of savings from a shore-based standpoint but not significant enough that it changes your strategy of how you market the rigs.
So I wouldn't say that that plays very much of a role in our decision-making.
Research Division</strong> And when you talked about the Gulf of Mexico being probably the better from a marginal standpoint correct? And that applies to the mid-water too? I think I know what you're saying.
But like I said the P&amp;A is a significant part of where we see the mid-water in the Gulf going forward.
There is still some exploration work that happens just not term in basis.
It really is based on a term program.
So we still see plenty of work for the Saratoga.
It's just -- it's not going to be a 3- or 4-year type term environment.
It's 9 months 6 months a year those types of jobs.
Let's take one more question.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Halgibson [ph] of Prometo [ph].
Yes you mentioned a possible sale of 2 of your other cold stacked rigs who will be the buyers for those? And I mean are there any buyers and what kind of jobs are they looking at do you think at the moment? Well I'm reading that the question was would we sell anything else beyond jack-ups? And I said "Well our cold stacked semis will be something we would consider." But I don't -- so beyond that I don't have any comments on specific buyers or what they would be looking at a rig to use what type of application they would be looking to use.
Did that answer your question Eric? I believe his line was disconnected sir.
Okay.
All right.
Well thank you very much.
We'll talk to everybody at the next conference and/or investor conference that may take place every now and then.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Diamond Offshore Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc.
Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Acuff Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
After we have discussed our results we'll have a question-and-answer session.
And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you very much and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
I've got 4 points I'd like to talk about in my opening remarks and then we'll turn it over to Michael Acuff to expand on the market and then Gary Krenek will walk you through the numbers in a little bit more detail.
First and most significant I think is the forward commitments that we announced in this press release and a recent filing of our rig status report but primarily in this press release.
First I'd like to comment on the Ocean America and Ocean Valiant which are fourth-generation rigs.
Ocean America we signed up in Australia 18-month commitment with Chevron at $475 000.
I think that reflects a little bit -- though that's one of the lower rates that we have and it's a little higher cost area it's still a solid profitable rate that we'll do very well on but it reflects that the Pacific may be the weakest of the markets that we operate in or I'd rather say least strong because it's still -- it is a nice market.
Over in Africa where the Valiant extended a short-term for Hess and moved its rate from a $300 000 up to $515 000 is I think reflective of a decent market and that's a continuation of the 490 000 rate that we booked on our new capacity rig the Ocean Onyx in the Gulf of Mexico.
And it's important to remember that these fourth-generation rigs are moored and they have substantially less operating cost crews marine crews and maintenance expenditures than you'll find on your fifth and sixth-generation rigs.
So the margins that we are likely to earn on the Valiant in West Africa at this point will be very very close to what sixth-generation rigs will be earning.
On the higher spec rigs the Ocean Endeavor we announced an 18-month commitment at a -- we're calling $521 000 which is $505 000 plus half of a 6.6% bonus which is what for budget and SEC purposes we say that we typically earn.
We never earn 100% across our fleet but we do typically 50% or better on those.
So that's a solid rate coming up from a post-Macondo rate that we've been working on in the high-200s in Egypt and this work will be at a location outside the Mediterranean.
Then additionally the Ocean Lexington will be released by OGX from Brazil.
That's been talked about for some period of time.
And we secured a greater than 12-month commitment for the rig in Trinidad with a consortium of companies at $300 000 a day.
So that's about a $50 000 uptick from the price we're working in in Brazil and we're anticipating a very substantial reduction in cost Brazil being our highest-cost location that we work in.
And Trinidad won't be as cheap as the Gulf of Mexico but it should be substantially cheaper.
So that will be a nice profitable job for us.
And in addition to that there's some other -- Patriot in the Pacific.
And Saratoga I believe we announced just recently in the Gulf of Mexico and that's really one of the few mid-water rigs working in the Gulf of Mexico.
So that's doing very well.
On the performance for the quarter we're very pleased with our operating expense.
We've continued quarter-after-quarter to just stay very tight within our budget and this is in spite of the fact that conditions do change on us and there are a lot of cost inflation pressures.
But the people that look after our fleet just continue to do a very very good job.
This was offset somewhat by a little bit of impact on the revenues as our unanticipated equipment downtime reached 159 days in the quarter.
If you look back last quarter we made an all-time record of only 60 days across the fleet but the 3 preceding quarters were in the 140s to as low as 110.
So we're up from where we were there.
And the downtime was concentrated on 2 fifth-generation rigs which helped -- hurt really to get some high dayrates that we lost time on.
But the rest of the fleet did very very well and performed well under what our expectations are.
And so it wasn't as big of an impact as we would have otherwise had.
And having the risk of downtime on rigs due to equipment failures or maintenance or even the higher standards that the whole industry looks towards in a post-Macondo world are continuing risks as we go forward but we're comfortable on a rolling quarter basis that we will be able to perform within tolerance and not have that.
But again the outstanding performance on the operating expense got us to where we need to be.
Last 2 comments are on the financial areas.
One as previously noted we did put in place a bank facility at $750 million.
We have no plans to immediately draw that down.
And of course that's for general corporate purposes.
But if you look out as our drillships are delivered we've got 70% payments due for those.
We've got $1.5 billion of cash on the balance sheet so that that will be the primary source of financing that but we felt that this was something that it was prudent for us to have.
The rates that we got on that were outstanding.
We are the only A-rated by both Moody's and Standard &amp; Poor's drilling contractor in the space and I think that was reflected in the rates that we obtained.
And then the final financial thing that I would note is we again declared a regular and special dividend at the same rates that have been in effect for some period of time and this brings our cumulative payments since we began our dividend program a number of years ago at $34 a share.
And so that added to the share price for our long-term shareholders reflects the value that we returned and puts us certainly in the top tier of offshore drilling companies' combined share performance and dividends.
So that's my summary of how I saw the quarter and I'll let Michael talk a little bit more about where the markets are.
Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone and thanks for attending the call.
The offshore drilling market remains robust as we continue to see steady to increasing activity as a result of the strong commodity pricing in the world market today.
Today I'll discuss each of the market segments.
But in general we are pleased with the state of the business and believe that it should remain strong going forward into 2013.
Looking at the market segments the ultra-deepwater and deepwater markets continue to show strength worldwide with the concentration of incremental demand continuing to reside in Australia West Africa East Africa and the Gulf of Mexico.
Several new fixtures with strong dayrates have been announced over the past 3 months and we believe this momentum in the market will continue for the foreseeable future.
As stated in our earnings announcement we recently signed the Ocean Endeavor to a worldwide contract with an unnamed operator for 18 months at $505 000 per day plus a potential 6.6% bonus up from the current operating rate of $285 000 per day.
Additionally we contracted the Ocean America with Chevron as Larry said for 18 months in Australia at a dayrate of $475 000 per day versus the current dayrate of $405 000.
And then finally the Ocean Valiant was extended for another 2 wells at $515 000 to continue its work for Hess Offshore Equatorial Guinea.
We're quite pleased with all 3 of these fixtures and our current deepwater and ultra-deepwater portfolio going forward into 2013 and 2014.
We believe we're well positioned with our 2 uncontracted new-build drillships the Ocean BlackRhino and the Ocean BlackLion along with our new deepwater semisubmersible the Ocean Apex all of which are due to be delivered in 2014.
With respect to ultra-deepwater pricing recent fixtures in the market continue to demonstrate that rates for 3-year deals are hovering around the $600 000 per day mark with West Africa fixtures typically higher by another $20 000 to $30 000 a day.
For contracts with longer-term up to 5 years potentially rates have been settling in the high-500s where I would expect them to remain for the near future.
Turning to deepwater we continue to see pricing momentum that has now taken us over the $500 000 per day mark for work under a year with longer-term contracts in the high-400s.
We believe this will continue with steady deepwater demand materializing for 2014.
For example Australia continues to move forward with their exploration programs and LNG-related development projects.
West Africa exploration efforts are currently strong in countries such as Angola Cameroon Congo Equatorial Guinea and Ghana while significant demand for development projects are being seen in Angola Ghana and Nigeria to name a few.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico we have seen a resurgence in activity in the deepwater and ultra-deepwater arenas over the past year and are now approaching pre-Macondo activity levels with expectations of continued demand taking this up to possibly 40 rigs in 2013.
In the mid-water segment of our business as we stated on our last call the market continues to operate its 2 distinct segments the very strong North Sea region and the other international and U.S.
Gulf of Mexico markets that remain steady.
In the North Sea the operators continue to see great availability which is at a premium and are currently planning for slots in late 2013 and 2014.
For example we're receiving significant interest in the Ocean Princess which ends its current contract in August 2013 subject to its options of course with operators looking at an average of 2 years of term commitment.
Additionally we have had discussions with several operators on relocating additional existing capacity to the region with a potential for a term contract.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and other international locations outside the North Sea the market continues to be steady to slightly increasing and has produced additional demand with some pricing power.
Our announcement yesterday on the Ocean Lexington and its contract with the group of BG Centrica and Niko is a positive data point for this segment with an increase in rate and a term commitment from the group of operators.
Our other mid-water rigs the Saratoga Patriot in general continue to build short-term backlog while remaining steady from a dayrate perspective.
The Ocean Ambassador which just left Brazil to return to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico is a rig we are focusing on as we are discussing opportunities with operators with the intent to secure a contract in the next few months.
So in summary we're very pleased with the direction of the market and the future strength of the offshore drilling business.
And with that I'll turn it over to Gary.
Thanks Michael.
For the quarter Diamond offshore recorded a bottom line net income of $178 million or $1.28 per share on contract drilling revenues of $714 million.
This is down from our second quarter results when we reported $201 million after-tax income or $1.45 per share.
The primary reason though for that decrease was in the second quarter if you recall we sold 5 of our jack-up rigs and recorded a gain of about $50 million or after-tax EPS of $0.36 a share.
So if you take that out of the mix we actually increased our earnings quarter-over-quarter.
As Larry said one of the reasons for that increase in earnings was our lower anticipated rig operating cost.
So looking back at the guidance that we gave last quarter I had told everyone that we expected operating cost to be somewhere between $410 million to $425 million and we actually came in at $357 million a substantial beat.
Part of that beat of the cost is a result of some timing issues.
We had anticipated the Ocean Worker would undergo a survey in the fourth quarter and that has been pushed back in its entirety to the third -- I'm sorry we thought it was going to be in the third quarter we pushed it back in its entirety to the fourth quarter.
Also the Ocean Victory was supposed to perform most of its survey in Q3 and it's moved most of it back to Q4.
We began the very first part of it in Q3.
If you look at those 2 things we believe about $15 million worth of cost were pushed from Q3 into Q4.
In addition to that we had about $10 million of currency favorable currency issues out there.
We -- in our cost estimates for the quarter we anticipated the U.S.
dollar being what we were at when we budgeted for the year and dollars have been stronger than that.
So that gave us about a $10 million favorable variance.
So those 2 in total both timing and U.S.
dollars is about $25 million.
The remaining portion though of the beat comes from just general cost controls.
We had about $7 million worth of estimate to actual adjustments during the quarter.
These are items that we had anticipated cost in prior quarters and booked expenses and they actually came in lower than what we anticipated.
And therefore we turned those accruals around in Q3 as we became comfortable of what the actual costs were.
So that $7 million doesn't necessarily relate to Q3 but does relate to prior quarters where cost came in even a little bit lower than the good numbers that we reported then.
We had a number of surveys in Q3.
Those surveys came in about $8 million below our expectations.
Again just watching the dollars.
We had about a $5 million adjustment on our reserve for our Jones Act's claims.
This is not something that we estimate ourselves but rather go to an outside third party actuary and have them estimate our reserves for us.
And we do that on a quarterly basis and so this quarter came back with a $5 million credit.
This is a reflection I think of 2 things.
Number one our incident rate is in -- for safety is the best that it's ever been and so that's reflected in this credit.
And not only is the incident rate down but the severity of the incidents we are having is down.
And so that has benefited the cost to us.
In addition to that we had about $15 million more of what I would just term general cost savings and cost control spread throughout the fleet much of it in our supply and maintenance expense.
Again as Larry pointed out the guys out on the rigs that are in charge of this just doing a very good job and we're very happy with that.
Looking at some of the other lines on the income statement our G&amp;A costs were a little bit lower than expected.
Part of this was due to about a $2.5 million accounting adjustment that we had during the quarter.
Interest expense was down by $2 million below what our expectations were.
We benefited here from a favorable resolution to a tax audit that we had reserved for in our FIN 48 accrual.
This has been going on for a number of years.
It relates to one of our international subsidiaries that -- and we had a favorable resolution.
We were able to turn that reserve around.
It only affected the tax line by about $1 million $1.5 million so it kind of got lost in the rounding on taxes.
But we had also recorded $2.5 million worth of interest on that accrual.
And since we were successful in defending ourselves there we were able to turn that around and that came out of our interest expense line.
Depreciation of $99 million was within our guidance and our tax rate of 24.1% was within the guidance that I gave which was 22% to 25%.
So a little bit toward the top end of it but still within the range that we expected.
Looking forward to the third quarter as always planned downtime will affect both our earnings and our cost.
For the quarter we are anticipating that the Ocean Worker will be down about 65 days for its 5-year survey.
We will complete the Victory survey that was begun by 15 down days in Q3.
It will have an additional 45 down days in the fourth quarter.
And we expect to begin the Quest about December 1 which will result in 31 down days.
So you total that up that's about 140 days on those 3 rigs for survey.
In addition the Ocean Saratoga is currently on a standby rate with BP.
For accounting reasons we are not recognizing any of those revenues that we've earned for the first 45 days of the quarter.
Rather what we will do is defer those earnings and amortize them over the remaining portion of the contract.
So essentially you'll have 45 days from an accounting standpoint of 0 revenue coming in even though we are actually able to bill that on an ongoing basis.
The Ambassador is as Michael said is mobe-ing -- or preparing to mobe back to the Gulf of Mexico.
We believe it will be about down 60 days before it gets here and totally completes its mobe.
And as always I refer you to the Rig Status Report for details on these down times and exact dates and further information on it.
Getting down to specifics on cost for -- that we expect in the fourth quarter.
Again as always our normal daily operating expense on our rigs that we gave some guidance out early on the year will occur.
The cost of the surveys I talked about we're estimating about $17 million.
The Worker is a larger survey more days and we've got some stuff we want to do with that rig will be about 10 just for that rig.
So we'll have $17 million there.
Amortize mobe approximately $13 million is what we're expecting for the quarter.
Again this will be offset by mobe revenues pretty much dollar for dollar.
The Ambassador's mobe back to the Gulf will expense that currently probably about $6 million.
This time we are factoring in the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
So we'll be taking that into account and assuming that the dollar will stay strong.
So we've reduced our expectations for that.
And then finally during the fourth quarter historically we've always seen our major project expense number go up as we complete projects that we've budgeted at the beginning of the year and said historically that's always been the highest in the fourth quarter.
So we've tried to build that into our numbers.
You take all of that into account and we believe that contract drilling expense for the fourth quarter will be between $390 million to $410 million.
As always I would note this is contract drilling expenses only.
Reimbursable cost will be in addition to the amount that I just gave you.
A few other lines.
G&amp;A we believe that will return back to the $17 million $18 million which we've historically recorded over the past 6 or 7 quarters.
Depreciation same guidance as last quarter $99 million to $101 million.
And interest expense we believe will return to its normal cost which is the $22 million which is what our outstanding debt brings us less $10 million worth of capitalized interest or a net of $11 million.
The effective tax rate will increase it just slightly over last time.
We believe it will be somewhere between the 23% to 26% range.
And finally capital expense we are increasing our expected capital from $720 million to $800 million and that's to reflect the Ocean Apex rig that we announced earlier in the quarter.
That $800 million will be broken down between maintenance capital of $320 million.
And our new-build rigs we expect to spend about $480 million.
And with that I'll turn it back to Larry.
Thank you.
We'll do the questions here.
Operator we'll open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Robin Shoemaker of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the mid-water market and -- it seems correct me if I'm wrong but it seems to be very strong in the North Sea perhaps getting a little stronger elsewhere but not as much.
But as you look at your mid-water fleet do you have candidates for the North Sea? And is it a -- is this something where either strategically or just the long-term strength of that market you would want to have greater exposure there? Yes.
You're right the North Sea has been a particularly strong market.
If you go back about 10 years the perception would have been in the North Sea that it is a highly regulated highly expensive place to do business.
And with the rest of the world trying to adopt regulations and in the midst of putting those regulations in place and not really sure where those regulations are.
The U.K.
in our opinion very efficient highly mature regulations are actually a bonus and we enjoy working in that location.
The drilling is very easy for our customers not really deep.
There is the weather issues but it's a great market.
And then you're right next to where Brent prices and that premium and everything makes it really really good.
There are not that many rigs that are capable of working in the North Sea.
In addition to the safety case there's standards that have to be met.
And we believe that we may possess a few rigs in our fleet not many in the mid-water segment that could be relocated to that market.
And there's certainly more demand up there than there are number of rigs.
So all that would lead you to believe that that is one of the options that we're considering but we haven't made a determination yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess it would involve some investment considerable investment to make them North Sea qualified.
Yes.
You got to look at -- each rig is different as to what it could meet.
Some rigs are at a juncture where you really couldn't meet the standard.
And then there's other rigs that you could but it's ridiculous to spend that amount of money.
And other rigs are working in markets where they earn a decent amount of cash.
So it's not a very big number of rigs that can go in there.
And I'm speaking for the industry and not just for Diamond Offshore.
Research Division</strong> On a similar topic just when you look at your exposure in Brazil in the mid-water kind of segment or conventional deepwater it looks like you've -- I mean you've done extremely well avoiding some of the problems that some of your competitors have there.
But Brazil's regulatory environment et cetera is getting -- it seems to be universally believed to be getting much more complicated and difficult.
And so you don't have a lot of assets coming up for renewal there but would you like to kind of balance things out have maybe less exposure to Brazil? Or do the assets you have there really belong there in terms of the type of rig they are and the capability? There are certainly rigs that belong there.
I mean we are looking for a solution to the Brazilian problems the continuing escalation of cost and the uncertain regulatory environment and conflicting regulations taxes import taxes.
All of those things make it difficult to work in there.
And so under normal circumstances we might be looking at taking some rigs out of there.
But we have 2 good customers down there and I'm just not going to in this forum say we're leaving them.
But we have fiscal responsibilities and we will -- when it comes time for renewal and all of that well in advance of that we will be sitting down and talking about how the 2 of us solve the problems that are present in Brazil currently.
Your next question comes from Greg Lewis of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So first could you provide an update on the Ocean Confidence? I know that rig was -- is now up and running with Murphy.
When that contract with Murphy rolls off I mean do you sort of have an indication that Cobalt will still be wanting to take those -- the rig back given what happened leading up to the release of the rig? I'll let Michael discuss the contractual situation and then we'll come back and address the mechanical problems.
Yes.
Greg the plan for that rig at the current moment discussing it with Murphy and Cobalt it will finish the well in Congo with Murphy here in roughly 60 to 90 days.
And then we will move back into Angola and carry out the drill stem tests that we left that was still outstanding on the well.
And then drill an additional 2 wells in Angola is the plan at the moment.
And then of course we have a well with Murphy following that.
But we're looking to move back to Cobalt and continue the program for them.
Okay.
The problem that we had was a computer system that controls the DP system and it was compounded by the manufacturer is no longer really in the drilling business and they had some concerns about potential liability in a post-Macondo world.
And so we had difficulty even fixing what we needed to get fixed.
And that was the situation in our judgment that led to Cobalt at least from us deciding to suspend operations.
And we took 7 8 days I believe of downtime.
So there wasn't a huge amount of downtime that resulted on the Confidence.
And because we had a backup commitment from Murphy in the initial pop [ph] hole section we were confident that the DP system was robust enough as long as we -- up until the point that we had to run the stack everybody was comfortable on that.
And that gave us a little bit more time.
And with some assistance from the vendor and others we have since solved the programming problem and we are confident that we can proceed ahead with Murphy finish that job.
And then we do have these other commitments as Michael described with both Cobalt and Murphy and the precise order that we line them up in I think may still be up in the air.
But he outlined where it looks currently.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just shifting gears over to the Ocean Ambassador that rig's mobe-ing back to the U.S.
Gulf if you could sort of handicap it whether that rig goes to work maybe in the U.S.
Gulf or maybe Mexico I mean do you think Mexico is a viable option for that rig at this point? Are you seeing any sort of interest in that rig from maybe Pemex? I think the Ambassador will be an ideal rig to work in Mexico.
It's worked there before.
We'd like it to continue but the Mexican contracting process that Pemex works under is slow.
And so I can't necessarily say when we'd go to work.
We would be hopeful in the meantime that we would get 1 or 2 short jobs to be able to work that in the Gulf of Mexico because again there's just a real paucity of mid-water fleet availability in the Gulf of Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one final question and you kind of -- you touched on it earlier when we think about the potential for upgrades and you mentioned that rigs that are working in -- is it safe to say that rigs that are actively working it probably doesn't make sense to maybe upgrade some of those rigs for the North Sea and the way we should be thinking about it is that it's the idle or stacked rigs that could potentially be candidates for upgrades or conversions? No because the algebra equation is not only what are you forfeiting to work but the -- a rig that may have worked in the U.K.
before the marginal add-on CapEx to get it up to North Sea standards would be reduced and the North Sea is strong enough that we would measure the incremental dayrate and the certainty because we could probably get some term behind that.
And we could well go in the direction of taking a rig out of service and believe that that's the better alternative than put a lot of money into an idle rig.
Your next question comes from Rhett Carter of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about Mexico kind of following up on the earlier question about it with the recent election potentially opening up the deepwater market are you seeing more opportunities emerge there? And kind of how do you think about the potential timing of that? Is it still too early? Yes Rhett this is Michael.
It appears that they're starting to have some success there in the deepwater area after the buildup for a while now in that.
But I wouldn't say that there's going to be a huge demand developed in the near term or the next year.
There may be opportunities as they expand their programs but I think they're going to have -- probably have to have some more exploration success before they start expanding their fleet.
But it's something we're definitely watching closely and in conversations with them about.
But I wouldn't expect just a wave of rigs to start flowing into Mexico.
But I would say that we view our ongoing jack-up presence in the Gulf of Mexico and we do have one floater down there I mean in Mexican waters as maintaining a base of operations so that we can easily bolt on deepwater activity down there should they need to bid out and we've got availability.
Yes.
And to clarify my comment I could see adding 1 to 2 rigs in there.
But just -- you have to kind of temper your expectations a bit.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Ocean Apex I'm assuming people are kind of starting to kick the tires around that.
What do you see is really some ideal markets for that rig? Well of course the Apex as we've told you has a very large deck area.
Of course 2 million-pound hook load capacity with significant liquid storage and bulk storage.
So ideally a remote -- a more remote type location is perfect for that rig.
So I have expectations that West Africa is going to be a potential market for that rig strong market.
Of course with the 2 million-pound hook load the Gulf of Mexico is always an option as you drill the deep wells here.
And you can't rule out Australia.
I mean that market's in balance at the moment but could probably use an additional rig or 2.
And then as other exploration programs develop we can see where it goes.
But that's kind of the focus area I believe that would maximize the capabilities of the rig.
And its moored capability does well on Australia so that you can move easily between water depths.
Your next question comes from Collin Gerry of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got 2 quick ones kind of bigger picture.
We're hearing a lot with the strength in the Gulf of Mexico there's a lot of capital on the operator side coming back in both private and public.
And the exodus of mid to deep depths everything outside of the ultra-deep side over the last few years there's just a scarcity of rigs in that kind of -- in that mid and deep category.
Do you see any -- are you fielding calls from Gulf of Mexico guys wanting those rigs to come back? Do you see opportunities there? It just -- this is operator conversations with us that I'm just trying to understand where -- if that maybe goes somewhere.
Well when we -- we targeted the Onyx specifically because nobody was adding 4 to 6 [indiscernible] foot capability.
And indeed we got a job in the Gulf of Mexico and we had interest from more than one guy.
And I think Michael would tell you that we get calls about and hopes for a mid-water.
But I don't see -- to date we haven't seen any big mid-water programs.
It's 1 or 2 wells.
And you have the issues with hurricanes because you're closer to infrastructure.
So we think there might be space for a rig or 2 but I don't -- probably in mid-water I wouldn't say the Gulf of Mexico is a big draw for those units.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like more noise than actual substance there.
Well if you heard it from our customers I'm not going to characterize it as noise.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll tell them to call you instead of talking to me.
The other one was also hearing a little bit of noise regarding regulations in Brazil with BOP standards.
Are you hearing anything about maybe requirements for a 4-ram stack coming out of Petrobras? Anything regarding kind of BOP regulations coming through in Brazil? Well 4 rams is the minimum so -- and what we're looking at is 5.
And I don't know if they settled on that yet.
You have -- AMP is still relatively new and I would probably characterize that -- they've got lots of issues that they're working on to ensure safety of Brazilian waters.
And I think they're -- my guess would be that they're waiting to see BOP regulations come out of other areas.
Because here it is the U.S.
and we're over 2 years past the event and we don't have any regulations here.
Your next question comes from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Larry you highlighted in your earnings release your balance sheet optionality particularly relative to the peer group and I wonder if you've got 1 or 2 or even 1 or 2 or 3 capital projects to address North Sea demand next year Q4 next year and you have the opportunity to order 1 or 2 more drillships.
Could you envision that scenario with the right backlog support of doing all of the above next year in terms of more mid-water CapEx and ordering 1 or 2 more new-builds on the ultra-deepwater side? Yes.
I think I could see that happening.
I don't -- I guess I don't know what I can tell you.
I think everybody there is sort of -- most of the established players are waiting for contracts on some of their '14 deliveries.
That would be Rowland us Noble some of the other guys.
And so you need to have that fall I would think before you start seeing additional orders coming out industrywide.
And then there's some various one-off opportunities to build other type of new equipment and then yes I pretty much said that we are focused on seeing what we can do to provide new capacity into the North Sea.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How far advanced are you with your studying on the Whittington and its prospects for a reactivation at this point? Well I mean our overall North Sea studies which would include the Whittington but is not necessarily focused on that I would say that we're getting fairly close to understanding what the prospects are.
So by the end of the year first quarter we could be making a decision.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can just squeeze in one more question Michael you characterized the mid-water is still improving in the North Sea and still steady in the rest of world.
But the Lexington contract in Trinidad I would say looks a little bit better than steady.
It seems like you probably got a decent cash margin improvement there as you move away from Brazilian OpEx.
Could you quantify that and also comment on that sort of dayrate and cash margin as it relates to sort of what we should expect for a benign environment mid-water leading edge rates? Yes Ian.
I think that probably is the Lexington fixtures around the leading edge rate for an international mid-water rig.
Of course as Larry said we believe we'll have some gains from an operating cost standpoint moving that rig into the Trinidad market.
It just depends on the rig capability.
You've got 1 000-foot mid-water rigs and you've got 3 500-foot mid-water rigs.
So that capability then trickles into the pricing advantages and opportunities.
But I think the upper end of the mid-water is in the high-2s and more your standard 1 500-foot type mid-water rigs are in the mid-2s.
That's a -- it was a great contract for us.
We're very excited about it.
The ability to get that type of term in the mid-water segment is just not everywhere we look.
It's more of short-term as you see with the Patriot the General.
You're getting 90 days still getting 120-day jobs.
So until we start seeing that term build up I think you'll continue to see the rates where they are and that's the reason I made my steady comment versus increasing.
But where it's possible obviously we'll take advantage of the pricing power and opportunities with the rigs we have to put them into good markets with better margin environments.
So we're quite excited about the Lexington.
Research Division</strong> Again how much do we think the OpEx differential is moving from Brazil to Trinidad once you get normalized? Operating in Brazil for mid-water rigs somewhere in the low 120s.
Trinidad 80.
Probably 70 to 80.
Yes.
So you could get a 40K addition there.
Potentially.
Your next question comes from Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> We've made it pretty far in the call and I can't believe it hasn't been asked yet.
But have you -- what have you guys thought about what Seadrill has done with its -- with dropping some rigs into an MLP? Have you guys evaluated that from Diamond's standpoint? Where do you stand on that? I don't -- we haven't seriously looked at it.
There's nothing that just jumps out at me and says that that's appropriate for our company.
Seadrill is pretty on the leading edge on doing all kind of things.
But we like the simplicity of 100% ownership of our vessels.
We would certainly -- if there was a material improvement in the valuation and we would have to grab hold of it.
But at the moment it's not something that's on our screen.
Part also is Seadrill has a lot of rigs that they still have under construction and need to pay for.
And so they have a need for cash.
Research Division</strong> And then just real quickly Gary regarding the new builds the Hornet and the Hawk any early indications of where those rigs could end up? And if they do end up in the Gulf of Mexico do we need to be thinking about adjusting our longer-term tax rate assumptions? It's hard enough to predict what the tax rate is going to be next year.
Who's going to win the election? Let's start off with that.
So I wouldn't -- no.
No predictions for long-term tax rates at this point.
My hope though would be that we would target an international market.
There's a lot of advantages to the Gulf of Mexico but we just don't want to have all of this class of vessels sitting in one market.
Your next question comes from Justin Sander of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just had one on the cost side to follow up on some of Gary's comments earlier.
And Gary you kind of laid out the survey costs in the third quarter coming in a bit below expectations and gave us some good outlook as far as what to expect in the fourth quarter as far as number of days and survey and cost.
I'm just wondering if you can one can we expect looking out into '13 with all of these other surveys coming online should we expect a similar type of cost per day relationship there? And then secondly can you just help us understand a bit more what's going on that allowed the survey cost to come in $8 million below expectations in the quarter? Not a lot of color I can give you going forward into next year.
We're in the process of doing our budget and part of doing that is our maintenance and our engineering groups going out and doing their own surveys of the rigs trying to estimate how much work we need to do.
In addition to this the normal survey cost.
And so we're doing that process right now.
For the time being you can assume something similar in '13 as opposed to '12.
We're going to do about the same number of surveys.
So we certainly will have a better guess for you and better estimates in our next quarterly conference call.
And then the second question what that -- reducing cost in this quarter.
Nothing that I can put my finger on.
Part of it is just being a little bit more efficient not being in the shipyard quite as long.
If we can save 2 or 3 days that can save a lot of money for us.
Also when we do some of our estimates we're trying to estimate how much it costs to mobe in and out.
And it's very easy to miss those estimates by $0.5 million to $0.75 million.
So again I wish I could tell you it's A B and C equal $8 million.
But when I looked at it and tried to come up with those things it's just kind of across the board a lot of little things.
Your next question comes from Doug Becker of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Gary just wanted to drill down a little bit more on the surveys.
The Victory survey has already started correct? That's correct.
I believe we were down 15 18 days in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And has the Worker -- has that survey started? Has not begun yet.
But we expect -- within the next couple of weeks it should.
We believe we will get the full 65 days in and complete the thing just before the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to gauge the potential that maybe getting pushed to the first quarter...
At this point we really don't believe -- we certainly are not planning on that.
We're staging all the equipment and everything.
I can't promise you things do occur at the last second.
But as of right now we're getting pretty close to it.
It looks like within the next 2 to 3 weeks we certainly will be bringing it in.
And keep watching the Rig Status Report.
Should that change of course we will let you know.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Obviously Diamond's older fleet gets mentioned a lot.
Operating cost you've really done an outstanding job on that front.
What's the thinking about maintenance CapEx 2 3 years down the road? Has there been any change in terms of what it takes to maintain the fleet? I don't know I don't...
You've got other -- a bigger issue is just cost inflation for supplies.
I think that is the #1 item.
As rigs get older they do require more maintenance CapEx.
But we are taking our fleet and evaluating it constantly looking at is it worth spending x to keep this rig going? And that's kind of led to the Epoch coming down a couple of rigs which are now down and available as our new capacity candidates.
The Onyx and the Apex were in that category.
So that kind of offsets it.
So it's not something that I see is a huge issue for us.
And we are bringing in new rigs into the fleet and those will require less maintenance.
But on the other hand the money that we're spending on -- we got Courage and Valor fairly new rigs but they go into Brazil where you have to pay such high duties on anything you bring into them and we've still been working on those.
I would say those run higher maintenance CapEx then we see on some of our older rigs.
Research Division</strong> Is there any rule of thumb you would point to as we think about maintenance CapEx on the older rigs? Or it just varies too much rig by rig? Yes.
There's too much variability.
I can't give you a rule of thumb.
Whatever our maintenance CapEx is this year I would expect it to escalate a little bit next year.
Well we're at this year $320 million.
I would expect next year -- again we're in the process of doing the budget to come in somewhere close to that because we're going to do about the same number of surveys.
And when we do a large number of surveys the maintenance capital does tend to go up because we have the rigs in and that's when we can spend the money on it.
In 2014 and '15 the number of surveys go down.
So that versus inflation in the rigs a little bit lower.
I would estimate somewhere around $300 million on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> And one last quick one.
Larry any thoughts on the dividend strategy if the dividend tax cuts do expire toward the end of the year? Does that change your thought process regarding the dividend strategy? We pretty much just do our dividends in a special dividend and the board will look at all things in setting those dividends -- that dividend strategy.
But the best thing is to look back about what we've done in the past which is generally maintain a dividend.
We recognize that that's a very important component.
But on tax changes as far as I know there's no tax changes that impact us where we get -- just the tax changes on the recipients.
And so I can't imagine that that would impact us.
If you look forward you know that we've got CapEx to continue to upgrade our fleet and bring in new rigs but at the same time enough funds to continue to pay a dividend.
And I'm not sure that there's any slack in there to adjust for even if we wanted to changes on taxes to the recipients.
Your final question comes from Chris Wicklund of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Matt Conlan I was going to ask about the dividend as well.
But I wanted to ask you about the Whittington.
You've been evaluating that rig now for almost a year.
Should we expect the rig to ever get reactivated again? Well certainly there is a possibility that we don't reactivate that rig.
That was a North Sea potential candidate but it is a very very expensive one.
And right now we're looking at other candidates for the North Sea.
And we haven't given up on that rig.
It depends on what the markets are and we'll look at what can happen for the rig.
But the evaluation process is also dependent upon condition and where the market is.
And there's just not generally a big market for that rig currently.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I -- even if you were to do some sort of a massive reinvestment and it doesn't sound likely that it's going to be a contributor in 2013? I do not think so.
All right.
I appreciate everybody joining us.
We will talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President And Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Acuff Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Darren and welcome everyone to our end of the year conference call and fourth quarter that just closed out.
Looking back at 2012 we are very pleased with our results.
I think the company did an excellent job of managing cost.
And we're managing cost of course in an environment where there's severe cost pressures coming out of Brazil coming out of the need to staff up for new rigs labor expenses and operating in a number of countries that may be challenging such as Egypt and of course I mentioned Brazil.
And so that makes it all the more of an achievement.
Our downtime outside of required surveys and shipyard visits due to things that happen on rigs and there's always going to be some of that was well within our parameters of what we budgeted so we're also very pleased with that.
Additionally it doesn't necessarily show up directly in the results that we post but our safety achievement set record highs.
Our total recordable incident rate fell by 25% from the year prior and we like to say that there are -- it's not that there's safety in our operations but there's only safe operations.
And we have found and I believe the industry is finding that as you become safer and preplan your jobs to avoid accidents you're actually becoming more efficient.
It's preplanning itself has impacts that go forward and I think this ultimately shows up in your cost control and your downtime management.
I'd like to also talk here for a second about the Patriot.
We have been spending time going through our fleet trying to see where we can judiciously add money to increase capacity and provide new markets for some of our existing fleet.
We have an aggressive new-build program as do many of our competitors but there's really nothing being done right now to refresh the market in water depths ranging from 3 000 to 5 000 and 6 000 feet.
We announced earlier this year the Ocean Apex which is underway right now in Singapore.
And then previous to that we announced a similar rig the Ocean Onyx both of these are 6 000-foot rigs that are serving the deepwater market and the Onyx has already got a contract in the Gulf of Mexico with Apache in a very very attractive dayrate.
The returns and cash flow that we'll have on that rig we believe will exceed or meet the cash flow coming off the new-build drillships and with quite a bit lower capital cost as well.
So in doing that one of the strongest markets that we see going forward right is the North Sea.
And we did an extensive survey to see what we could do with the rig that would enter that market.
We looked quite a bit at the Ocean Whittington but we're not happy with the amount of capital required to get the rig into a state that it could operate up to our standards as well as meet U.K.
specifications and enter that market.
And we zeroed in on the Ocean Patriot a mid-80s third-generation rig that we bought in 2004 at an attractive price and was working in the Pacific theater in the mid-200s decided that we could significantly increase the amount of money that we earned by making investment in that and marketed that rig to the North Sea and we were able to obtain a contract for 3 years at just over $400 000 a day with Shell.
We will spend approximately 6 months with the rig in the shipyard later this year once it completes its work programs that we previously committed to in the Pacific theater and we will mobilize that to the U.K.
sector and then begin our 3-year contract on that.
So again that's one of the things that we think we bring to the table is extensive experience with taking some assets that may have been originally constructed for one market repositioning them putting some additional performance standards into that rig and being able to enter a new market.
I'm not sure -- we're certainly looking to see what other opportunities remain in our fleet but we think we may be coming almost to the end of those opportunities that jump out at us right now on that.
Let me talk about down days for things like the Patriot and for other downtime going into the next year.
Our projections are right at 1 400 days for next year for downtime related to special surveys.
We've got 12 rigs going under survey next year some mobilization time and then 2 major work projects that we've got for contracts one of those is the Ocean Patriot which I mentioned.
Most of the advantage of that will accrue in 2014 and later years and we'll pay a price in having some time off of contract this year.
But we came to the conclusion that economically that made a lot of sense and we were ready to trade that.
In addition to that we have the Ocean Endeavor when it completes its work in Egypt has a contract a significant contract with an oil company that we haven't been able to disclose yet.
But we will need about 6 months time to do some contract prep on that.
We will receive under that contract approximately $37 million to compensate us for the work that we will do and the lost dayrate that we will have during that period of time.
However accounting rules require that both the cost of the upgrade and the revenue that we receive are deferred over the life of the active contract.
So that's another thing that contributes.
But if you pulled out both the Patriot and the Endeavor from the 1 400 days that we have for surveys some repairs customs time and a couple of smaller mobes then that would take you down about 340 of those days.
So right at 1 100 to 1 000 days of downtime.
For the year that just ended we incurred approximately 1 200 days.
So excluding those 2 rigs the amount of downtime that we've got next year is about flat with this year.
We haven't done an actual calculation in detail yet for 2014 but the surveys dropped from 12 to 5 we will complete the Endeavor and the Patriot modifications.
So we should be able to return to a much lower number of down days in 2014.
In addition to that I think I need to talk for just a second let me go over our construction review.
Mentioned the rigs that we've got under construction the 4 drillships continue on schedule and on budget in Korea.
The BlackHawk will be the first of those vessels that will be out and into the U.S.
market towards the end of the year between mobe and contract prep time it'll take about that long before it's ready to work.
But everything else continues to move along.
The Ocean Onyx and Ocean Apex that I mentioned are doing very well.
The Onyx incurred more steel repairs than we had anticipated.
So our $300 million budget is probably over by $10 million to $15 million at this point and potentially 30 to 45 days late from when we initially projected that we would have the rig ready.
Nonetheless the rig will earn a much higher dayrate than we'd anticipated when we did the project and there really is no other alternative to bringing it into the Brownsville shipyard here in the Gulf of Mexico so we don't have a lot of mobilization.
And I still think that's going to be an excellent item.
So all of the rigs with that one minor exception continue on where they need to be.
Additionally we have announced that we have 4 rigs that we will reclass as held for resale which will result in a write-down of $62 million.
That's the Ocean Whittington which is responsible for most of the write-down; the Ocean Epoch located in -- near Singapore; the Ocean New Era in the Gulf of Mexico; and then a jack-up of the Ocean Spartan.
And our goal is to recognize that some of these rigs are at the end of their lives and they're not rigs that we would like to continue to invest in.
We think there may be opportunities for other people to invest into them or there may be opportunities to put them to work in a non-drilling market.
Nonetheless we will push aggressively to move those rigs by the end of the year and felt we needed to take that write-down.
We can never be dismissive of write-downs however this is not a write-down where we overpaid for an asset.
These are really capital expenditures that we put into the rig to keep the rigs into condition.
If I take the Whittington for example we put approximately $100 million into it before we took it down to Brazil.
We earned almost twice that amount during the period of time but we depreciated $100 million over 10 years so we still had half of it on our books that's a component of the write-down.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Michael Acuff who will go through our marketing prospects in a little bit of greater detail.
And then he'll turn it over to Gary Krenek who will review our financial results and give you guidance as we normally do for the coming year.
Michael? Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
As we head into 2013 the offshore drilling market remains strong.
A steady increase in activity continues in most markets and the visibility for 2014 and beyond has certainly become clearer.
Strong and stable commodity prices and our customers growing exploration and development budget remain the basis for this continued expansion within the industry.
And we see no near-term signals of this growth slowing.
Of note an industry survey recently reported an increase for worldwide annual E&amp;P investment spend of about 7% for 2013 compared to 2012.
And we see this capital spending trend continuing and translating into additional deepwater demand long term for the offshore drilling business.
Looking at the floating market segments.
The ultra-deepwater market continues to show a steady strength worldwide with incremental demand primarily being seen in West Africa and the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Though there've been -- not been a significant amount of new fixtures over the past few months we still see a strong demand scenario shaping up for program starting in 2014 and we expect to see several new fixtures as this first quarter progresses.
With respect to Diamond's ultra-deepwater availability we began to see interest in the Ocean BlackRhino materialize as customers begin their initial planning for program starting in the second half of 2014.
But it's still a little early in the rig contracting process for this timeframe.
Turning to the deepwater.
We continue to see strong demand in this segment also with several long-term programs on the horizon beginning in 2014 and beyond.
The primary areas driving this market continue to be West Africa U.S.
Gulf and Australia.
Currently we're in discussions with operators from West Africa regarding the Ocean Valiant which is our next available deepwater rig for both exploration and development programs.
And having similar conversations with our customers in the Gulf of Mexico regarding the availability on the Ocean Victory.
That rig will be available in late 2013.
One point to note in the Gulf of Mexico we are continuing to see a resurgence in exploration and development activity in both the deepwater and ultra-deepwater segment.
And have now passed pre-Macondo activity levels which is a very encouraging marker for the industry.
Turning to the mid-water segment the very strong North Sea market continues to charge forward as evidenced by our announced 3-year deal with Shell and above the $400 000 dayrate on the Ocean Patriot.
We've previously discussed the detail dynamics of this market but in general we continue to see interest for availability into '14 and '15 from both majors and independents coupled with a limited supply of rigs that can be brought into the area due to the U.K.
certification requirements.
This gives us a lot of confidence going forward as we begin discussions on the Ocean Princess which is our next available U.K.
rig which will come due in November '13.
In Southeast Asia the mid-water market continues to be steady.
However over the past few months we've started seeing an additional demand materialize in several discussions with operators that are -- should allow us to significantly increase our backlog on the Ocean General into early 2014 and ultimately should translate into better dayrates as the market continues to tighten.
In particular exploration programs in Vietnam and Indonesia are expanding.
Though the work is typically 2 to 3 wells or 120 to 180 days in length we've seen several operators solidify drilling plans for the second half of 2013 and into the first half of 2014.
This increased demand combined with the strategic exit of the Ocean Patriot from the area into the U.K.
is creating quite a bit of interest in the Ocean General's availability and is making us more optimistic for that market as we go forward.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico mid-water market we're seeing similar interest to the General as with the Saratoga the Ocean Saratoga where we're currently in discussions to contract the rig into late 2013.
As with the Southeast Asia market these programs are short term in nature but are starting to stack up and give us further availability and pricing power.
The one exception to this has been the Ocean Ambassador that's our 1 100-foot semisubmersible currently warm stacked in the Gulf.
We continue to focus on marketing efforts on Mexico for this rig and are anticipating Pemex will be issuing a tender for term works in the near future.
In the meantime we'll continue to seek out short-term opportunities for the Ambassador in the Gulf in its shallower water depths.
With that I'll turn it over to Gary.
Thanks Michael.
As Larry said as in the past I'll make a few comments on what happened this past quarter and then what we expect to see in the next quarter and for 2013 as a whole.
For the fourth quarter 2012 we have net income of $156 million or $1.12 per share on contract drilling revenues of $741 million.
Looking at some of the details the biggest item of note unusual on our income statement was the impairment write-down of $62 million that Larry talked about.
We also reclassified those 4 rigs that he listed as assets held for resale.
The $62 million impairment after-tax had an effect of some $0.29 a share reduction in our earnings.
Looking at revenue downtime for rig repairs as Larry said came in a little bit better than we expected which was a help to our revenue line.
We had about 3.6% downtime for equipment repairs in the fourth quarter this compares to an average of about 4% so a little bit better than normal.
Which was better than the third quarter when we had a little bit better than 5% but not as good as Q2 when we came in at under 2.5%.
So a little bit better than normal helping that top line.
Looking at our contract drilling expenses those came in at some $378 million for the quarter.
We had guided to $390 million to $410 million so we came in under that.
Some $9 million of those savings were due to timing.
The Ocean Worker was supposed to do a survey in the fourth quarter of 2012 we only began that.
We're doing the bulk of the work in 2013.
And the Ocean Quest was supposed to begin its survey at the end of the fourth quarter that got pushed totally into this year.
So we saved about $9 million there.
We also had a $4 million adjustment on our Jones Act accrual.
Larry talked about our safety record our best year ever in safety both in terms of an incident rate and in severity.
I'm very proud of that and as Larry said we'll try to improve on it even more.
But that did roll into affecting our bottom line somewhat where we saved some $4 million and we were able to reduce our accrual.
If you take those 2 items into consideration we actually came in within guidance.
It was in toward the bottom end of the range.
Again a reflection of the cost controls that we put in place and that we've done a very good job at doing.
While at the same time continuing to maintain our rigs at an adequate level.
Looking at some of the other line items on the income statement.
Depreciation came in below guidance at $93 million we had guided to about $100 million.
Every fourth quarter we have a true-up adjustment sometimes it's higher sometimes lower favorable unfavorable this year.
It actually came in a little bit below where we expected so that was normal.
G&amp;A slightly below our guidance but within what I believe are normal fluctuations.
And interest expense a little bit below normal.
We had a little bit reversal of interest expense related to some tax issues that expired at the end of the fourth quarter.
Finally looking at fourth quarter.
Our tax rate came in at 15.9%.
A big portion of that reduced rate is a result of that impairment write-down.
The impairment write-down on all the rigs that were written down were in our domestic structure therefore we booked that write-down at a 35% tax rate.
So when you take the benefit of that write-down at 35% it drove our tax rate down substantially.
Without the impairment write-down our tax rate would have been just slightly above 21%.
The guidance that we had was 23% to 26%.
The difference between that and the 21% is just on a normal true-up geography differences where we earn our pretax income based on foreign tax rates at the different places that we earn it.
Now looking forward into 2013 and some of the highlights that will affect our financial performance.
Larry talked about the down days.
High number of surveys again in 2013 where we have 12 rigs which will affect both the number of down days and our cost compared to 9 that we did in 2012.
As Larry pointed out 2014 gets better where we expect only 5 surveys to occur in 2014.
I would point you to the Rig Status Report for the details on those rigs exactly how many days per rig and the timing of those.
Looking at contract drilling expenses for 2013.
We believe we'll see an increase somewhere in the mid-single digits and we are projecting contract drilling expenses for 2013 to be somewhere between $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion.
That's up a little bit over the $1.537 billion that we incurred in 2012.
The largest portion of that increase will be due to surveys.
So the increase is coming in slightly over $100 million.
Of that $75 million will be related to the surveys going up from 9 to 12 and the amounts that we have to spend in those surveys.
We also have seen some increases in wages and additional hands that we are hiring in order to get prepared for the drillships that are being delivered.
Training costs are up slightly for the same reason add that to general inflation somewhat offset for some of the jack-ups that we sold during 2012.
You come down to a net result of $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion as I said mid-single digits 5% to 7% increase.
Just a little bit more color on that.
In addition to rig operating cost those survey costs we're expecting most of our rigs to incur between $4 million to $10 million of survey cost during the year.
The exceptions will be the Ocean America Alliance and Quest where those will come in somewhere between $13 million to $16 million is our projections and then the Ocean Valiant is a little over $20 million we have a little bit more work to do on that rig than we do the rest of the rigs.
We'll also incur amortized mobe and contract preparation costs expense of the year of about $40 million.
That will be broken down into $14 million in the first quarter approximately $10 million in the second and third quarters and finally about $6 million in the fourth quarter.
Those costs -- most of it if not all will be offset by amortized revenues deferred revenues that we received that Larry talked about in the accounting treatment in his talk.
As always I'll remind everyone that I've been talking about the line contract drilling expenses on our income statement only.
These numbers that I've been -- just giving you do not include cost incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Looking at just the first quarter of 2013 we estimate the contract drilling expenses are going to be somewhere between $390 million to $410 million.
That will consist of our normal operating cost survey cost associated with Patriot Rover Worker and Quest.
We have also mobed the jack-up Ocean King back to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico it actually arrived earlier this week or last week and that cost us about $6 million.
So that will be included in our Q1 cost.
And finally amortized mobe cost I talked about it earlier some $14 million.
Take all of that together and we're expecting $390 million to $410 million in the first quarter.
Some of the other line items in our income statement for 2013.
We believe G&amp;A will be again $17 million to $18 million per quarter.
That's consistent with the guidance I gave all of last year that we came in slightly below.
We see a little bit of cost increase in G&amp;A not much to the point to where we believe will now hit that $17 million to $18 million each quarter.
Depreciation comes down slightly the first 3 quarters.
We're expecting to incur a depreciation expense of $94 million to $96 million.
And then in the fourth quarter as we start delivering rigs we believe it will be somewhere between $100 million to $102 million.
I'll update that as the year goes on and we get a little bit more comfortable with exactly when we begin depreciating rigs.
Interest expense are gross interest that we pay is some $88 million or say $86 million to $88 million per year $22 million per quarter.
Once you to take capitalize interest into account we believe in the first 2 quarters of the year we will have a net interest expense of $6 million to $7 million.
Net interest expense should go down in the third quarter to about $2 million and then rising to $10 million in the fourth quarter as we start delivering rigs.
Again I'm fairly comfortable with the Q1 and Q2 of $6 million to $7 million.
We will update the third and fourth quarters again as we get to those points.
Looking at an effective tax rate for the year of 27% to 30%.
The increase from our 2012 tax rate is based on a couple of things.
First of all in 2012 we booked about $80 million worth of gain on sale of rigs at a 0 rate.
These were rigs that were held in our foreign structure and therefore for book purposes we did not apply -- we had a 0 tax rate on that.
And also the $62 million impairment benefit -- tax benefit we booked at 35%.
That along with some of the geography changes with the Onyx going to work in the Gulf of Mexico and additional work in the Gulf we'll see that cause the rate to go up a little bit it's a net result of 27% to 30% rate.
Now that will be booked in the second third and fourth quarter.
In the first quarter we believe we will have a tax rate somewhere in the 11% to 13% rate and that's due to tax legislation that was passed in early January 2013.
It was legislation that was applicable to 2012 for the entire year January December of 2012 that we received benefits that we had not previously anticipated or were able to book for accounting purposes.
Because it was booked after the 31st we're taking that entire benefit in the first quarter in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
So 11% to 13% in the first quarter 27% to 30% tax rate in the last 3 quarters.
And as always we'll update that as the quarters go on.
And finally our capital expense guidance.
We believe we will have a maintenance capital of approximately $325 million for the year another $120 million on the Patriot and then our new-builds primarily the BlackHawk and the BlackHornet where we're paying 70% of the shipyard upon delivery.
We will occur an additional $1.3 billion worth of capital for a total capital expenditure of the year of some $1.75 billion.
And with that I'll turn it back to Larry.
Okay.
Let's take some questions.
Operator at this time we'll open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Byron Pope of Tudor Pickering Hold &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned at the outset of the call that severe cost pressures in Brazil.
I was just hoping you could provide some context in terms of how you think about the market dynamics in that area of the world particularly as it relates to your fleet in the context of 2013? Well let me just characterize the types of costs that we see.
Customs rates continue to be an issue for us.
There's delays in getting in and out of customs they've got strikes going on down there.
So that yields cost and frustration.
Skilled labor Brazilian labor we've got some targets that we need to meet on certain rigs of percentage of both crews that are Brazilian.
Those same targets impact our competitors.
There is demand for people in the production world infrastructure going in not only for the oil and gas industry but for the coming Olympics and World Cup all compete for the same type of individuals.
So that continues to go up.
Environmental regulations are evolving in Brazil.
You've got the ANP and coming up with safety and performance standards all of which can result in additional capital being required of the rigs or things that on a year-over-year basis weren't present.
So those are the type of things that are present down there.
And I think all of the drillers that I've talked to and listened to in various forms and all that mention these type of factors and what that does to their financial results in Brazil.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up question.
You mentioned that maybe getting to the end of the road in terms of your floaters that might be upgrade candidates.
How do you think about the fleet composition going forward? I mean obviously you've got the new-build drillships coming but in the context of having reclassified your cold stacked rigs as held for sale how should we think about Diamond continuing to grow its overall fleet or the fleet composition changing over time? Well among the rigs that we have the second- and third-generation rigs that are in good shape and are capable of meeting customer needs certainly rigs in 3 000 feet of water North Sea rigs rigs where we've enlarged the capacity in one sense or another including quarters those rigs continue to find demand and there's just nothing new coming for them.
I think Michael in his discussion helps highlight the deepwater units where we have a significant presence in water depths right around 5 000 feet of water and we see very strong demand in that area.
We've got low capital cost in those rigs and actually the operating costs for crews and repairs and whatnot are significantly below what we spend on our fifth- and sixth-generation rigs.
So all of those things we see a future.
We are committed on a long-term basis to continue to enhance the fleet.
And we wouldn't see -- and that enhancement so far has taken the role of the 2 new rigs we bought in the 2009 time frame then the 4 drillships that we're constructing Onyx and Apex where we'll be delivering significant deepwater capacity really with greater deck space deck load and quarters than is currently in that market.
All of those we'll continue to enhance.
And the Patriot is another one where we take a rig and make sure that it has a secure future.
But we would see and we continue to look at other building opportunities and we're trying to look not only within just adding drillship 5 and 6 but other things that might serve a particular niche market where we think that -- in fact we're diversifying where we're putting capital into the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Michael is there anything holding back a rig like the Princess from garnering 2-year extensions at the $400 000 rates that we've seen become more prevalent for that class? Yes Ian.
We're currently having discussions with a couple of customers in those ranges and  timeframes.
Each customer has a different time horizon on their program but that's where we see the market today and I wouldn't think we'd be significantly off of that mark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
Gary you mentioned a $37 million reimbursement I believe for the Endeavor and you said that that compensates mobe but as well as a dayrate loss.
Would you be willing to share what type of margin gross margin we should think about on that revenue component? Well I guess the answer is I don't have that particular margin.
It is designed to cover the cost of modifications that we're doing and provide us with some margin during that period of time.
But that all gets pushed forward.
I think what we'll do is perhaps next quarter or so we'll make some disclosure on what the accounting impact will be on Endeavor's contract and what kind of margins it would look at having.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well we'll stay tuned on that.
And then just lastly are there any immediate plans for disposing of the rigs that you've reclassified here? We don't have a signed thing in front of us.
The Spartan is a 300-foot jack-up and probably has the highest demand of the 3.
There's not a lot of purchasers right at the moment of semisubmersibles.
But we've certainly had a number of people look at those --  at the semis so we would -- when we say that -- when we put them held for resale it's our intention to move them this year.
We would expect to find somebody.
Our next question comes from the line of Collin Gerry of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One of the questions I had as it relates to that and I think I heard this right was that of the $100 million increase in cost year-over-year roughly $75 million of that was due to more survey time.
And that we have 12 surveys this year versus 9 the prior year.
Does that imply $25 million per survey or am I just doing some funky math? I think that's a little bit too simplistic.
You got to look at all 12 surveys versus all 9 surveys and where we spent the money.
We can spend anywhere from $4 million to $20 million on a survey cost.
As you mix all of those things up it comes out about $75 million more this year on the total.
We've got a number of deepwater assets that are also coming in America and Valiant really good fourth-generation rigs but those rigs were delivered in 1987 if I recall.
So I mean you're looking at some age and so those would tend to require more money than if in a comparable period we did a newer rig.
Also remember part of the survey costs is moving those rigs into the shipyard and back out.
So a big determination is exactly where they're at in relation to the shipyard we have to take them to and that can drive the cost.
Yes.
I think that's a good point.
The Confidence and the Valiant which are in West Africa need a certain type of facility that is not really available in West Africa.
So our current plans are to bring them to the Canaries.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's certainly helpful color.
So I mean I guess normalized because there's so many moving parts but the range you mentioned $10 million to $25 million is that how we should think about surveys kind of going forward? And the context I'm thinking of it is that if we are going from 12 to 5 in 2014 that's obviously a good thing.
I guess I'm trying to think how do we put some context around how good that is.
Well the range I gave was from 4 to a little over  20.
Until we get closer to those it's hard to say.
Assume $10 million each that's just a great big ballpark figure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
My follow-up or unrelated follow-up is on Brazil.
And we talked about it -- you talked about the cost in some of the issues that go on there.
It seems to me just from a marketing perspective that they are digging their heels in the sand a little bit on new builds locally built.
However at the same time they are missing some production guidance within Brazil.
It just seems like there's a lot of moving parts down there somewhat negative.
Maybe you could just update us on your thoughts in terms of how many rigs they'll need what the timing of that what is their marketing program? It looks like the next couple of years you'll have a lot of rigs I'm just wondering what your thoughts are on how this looks over the next couple of years.
Yes.
I'll let Michael come in on that.
I'll just caution you that all of the work for Petrobras are great customer of ours we have a number of rigs for them ranging from deepwater units in 10 000 feet Courage and Valor all the way down to some shallow water semis.
I don't think by any means we have enough of a perspective to be able to project what they're going to do.
Yes.
And to add to Larry's comments I would say that I think we're in a period right now as we have discussions with Petrobras that they're evaluating a lot of their production a lot of their opportunities for development.
And looking at their whole portfolio and particularly know that they had a change over in management team.
So with that they've gone back and took a step back and slowed down a bit on their progression to do a review of all these projects.
I think as we go later into this year and definitely into '14 you're going to see more and more activity as they start deciding where they're heading forward the progression they're going to make.
I believe they're very intent on delivering and continuing the new-build program locally.
It's just a matter of questioning the timing and when that develops.
But we continue to have discussions with them.
I see most -- the majority of the rigs they currently have continuing to work.
There is potential perspective down the road that they may change the course and their strategy as far as their portfolio goes but we don't see a big change at the moment.
And I think you're right in that they're going to methodically evaluate continue on the path they are then make their choices on where they invest their money.
Of course Pre-Salt is a huge play for them and so we see that opportunity in the rigs that work around that area as having a strong demand going forward with Petrobras.
Our next question comes from Todd Scholl of Clarkson Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
On the assets held for sale it doesn't sound like that there's going be -- you guys will put any restriction on who you're selling to.
So not you're concerned about putting the rigs back in the market and having somebody else buy them and operate them for drilling is that right? The market is too thin for us to be able to go in there and start restricting who we're going to sell and whatnot.
In the best of worlds we would like to see these rigs exit drilling and not remain competitive.
But we believe that in the second- and third-generation market there's just so few rigs that that's not as important as it once was.
The key criteria is having assets that are adaptable to the evolving demands in that water depth where people want more quarters they want more mud capacity they want more of a lot of things.
And whether or not the new buyers choose to equip the rigs for that or they want them to work in a secondary market or something is -- at the end of the day I don't think it impacts us that much.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys also mentioned that you think that the opportunity to kind of upgrade and move rigs between markets in your fleets it was kind of getting close to its end.
Do you think that there's maybe opportunity for you to do that out there with kind of one-off assets that you might be interested in purchasing or looking at? Is that something you've considered or is that kind of something that's off the table? No.
That would be something we'll consider.
But I don't see that as a major needle mover for us.
I don't think there's a huge number of assets like that for us to acquire.
I think most stuff that's for sale has limited capacity.
And look we would love to be able to continue to make this investment to put the Victory-class rig which made the basis of 9 of our significant repositioning of assets are done within our fleet and then many of the other rigs have high dayrates currently in the existing market.
I mean theoretically we take the Ocean America and the Ocean Valiant and spend some money on it and get it really -- upgrade that rig but the rigs themselves have a nice dayrate.
So just economically it doesn't make sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just one last one if I can.
As you guys move forward with your marketing efforts on the BlackRhino and BlackLion can you guys maybe talk a little bit about what kind of emphasis you'll put on the contracts and maybe finding a more equitable split between subsea downtime between you and the potential contractor? Yes.
No.
One thing I want to clarify and I think we've talked about this before we haven't seen a major shift in the contracts from the past but we're always looking at that.
And in an up market that's some of the areas you really focus on and try to shift that to your side of the table.
But we believe for the most part our contracts we have on the current 2 rigs we have contracted with Anadarko and also the other ultra-deepwater rigs we have and deepwater rigs they're -- it's fairly equitable from a downtime perspective.
So we're always looking to move that shift that to our side of the table.
But I don't think there's huge gains there because we didn't lose much.
Those clauses have stayed fairly standard from past experience.
Our next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First on the rig -- the Ocean King moving to the Gulf of Mexico.
Do you plan to keep it in the U.S.
Gulf side or do you want to move it to the Mexican side? We're looking at all different opportunities right now both in the Gulf and in Mexico.
In the near term we're focusing our efforts on the rig to work in the U.S.
Gulf.
But as Pemex comes out with tenders as they do here and we expect them to do over the next year we'll take a look at them to see if it makes sense to move it to Mexico.
But right now we're really focusing our efforts in the Gulf there's a strong market there.
And we believe opportunities for the King to go to work fairly soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly I have a question on the recognition of DD&amp;A and operating cost for the BlackHawk.
Do you start recognizing those costs when the rig actually starts to -- on the dayrates which is -- I mean some time in the fourth quarter or when it starts getting into commissioning and acceptance testing? We've got to complete our commissioning before we begin recognizing costs up until that point in time we will capitalize it.
And we're still studying the accounting rules and exactly what are we going to do in Singapore part -- or actually in Korean waters versus what we're going to do in the U.S.
Gulf.
If we're going to able to complete the commissioning there or we have to complete the commissioning in the U.S.
Gulf.
So that's still to be determined.
Accounting rule is pretty specific and can be difficult to apply.
So we'll let you know as that time comes closer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one general question about the 2.5-year surveys special surveys versus typically what we see 5- to 10-year surveys.
How are these different? And is this just more a North Sea kind of phenomena or do you see that happening in other places to? It's mostly North Sea and actually the 2.5 versus 5 is at least from a cost standpoint is virtually identical.
This is the U.K.
responding to the fact that most of the rigs operating there are in excess of 30 years old and this is the response that they want to see more frequent more extensive surveys on a 2.5 year basis and that's just one of the cost that's present in that market but we think you're more than compensated by the dayrates.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So should we be assuming every 2 2.5 years about the same kind of downtime on the rigs in North Sea? 40 45 days? Yes.
Our next question comes from Robin Shoemaker of Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question has to do with just in terms of the 12 kind of concurrent special surveys and so forth.
In terms of your internal manpower and what you need for the -- from outside vendors and shipyards.
Is everything lined up satisfactorily from your point of view at this point? Is it going to be a bit of a stretch or should we expect you to kind of make these estimated days or perhaps shave a little time off those estimated shipyard days? Well while we're hopeful I don't think we're going to shave days.
We have a couple in Brazil where customs issues can impact you and you have to have a port cap and clearance before you leave.
So there's issues there.
There's always weather and there's some negative stuff built in there.
And during the year invariably we'll have a survey that we will chop 10 to 12 days off we'll come up with some new way to do it.
We did one last year offshore we did that kind of thing but it will be more than offset usually by weather.
These are good estimates that we can work on but I just don't think that there's much positive side on that.
But otherwise we're happy with them.
We wish the Canaries was closer to Angola but other than that.
Having said that the guidance we gave on the ones for 2012 I don't believe we significantly missed any of them plus or minus.
Where we missed the most is in the timing which is something that we just can't control.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then my other question is to do with the CapEx budget that you described $1.75 billion and then your dividend at the current levels roughly $500 million.
Now you've got a $1.5 billion in cash in marketable securities so from a liquidity standpoint are you all set for this year in terms of funding those CapEx requirements? And then what about 2014 how does that look from a CapEx point of view? Well in 2014 we will have the other 2 drillships coming out and add the final charges for the Apex coming out.
From a liquidity standpoint as you said $1.5 billion of cash on hand.
In addition to that we have $750 million bank line of credit that we put into effect last quarter.
So we have that to draw off on.
And we have only $1.5 billion worth of total debt outstanding.
So if we do have additional liquidity needs we certainly have the wherewithal to be able to go back to the market and supplement what we have on hand right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Conlan of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys just a quick housekeeping question.
What's the total book value now all of your 4 held for sale rigs after the impairment charge? It's whatever line item is on that asset held for sale some $12 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm looking $11 594 000.
Yes.
And I think a little bit over $7 million of that is the jack-up.
Yes.
$7.5 million is the Spartan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're -- the 3 rigs you had were $38 million as of September 30.
So there's somewhere around a $30 million write-down of those rigs is that -- am I thinking about that right? I'm not following that...
Yes.
We took a $62 million write-down almost all on the 3 semis.
It was totally all on the 3 semis.
We did not write the jack-up down at all.
Our final question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions a little bit different areas.
First when you're looking at it you have rigs you have put up held for sale you've had -- now you're upgrading some rigs and then it sort of a consideration I'm assuming here that the margin between what do we upgrade and how we conduct those surveys and upgrades versus how do we employ capital on new rigs.
Is there a balance between looking at kind of equipment and the life of the equipment that needs to go on rigs if you're going to upgrade them versus maybe the life of the rig itself versus how you employ capital maybe on new rigs? And can you just walk me through a little bit how you're thinking about that because it strikes me that some of these rigs are probably coming up against life and the life of the equipment that you're going to put on them is actually maybe longer than the asset life itself.
How are you thinking about that? I'm just trying to get a sense for the logic.
Well I'd say the #1 criteria is the actual design of the rig and what it is that you can do with that.
The Victory-class rigs lent themselves very well to have the strength and the longevity to be able to take additional weight and additional capacity and if falls off from there.
Some of these rigs Epoch and New Era are very small.
They have a shallow draft and they -- so that there's not much you can do with that and so that kind of restricts their water depth and it's difficult to really upsize the rigs to any degree without spending a lot of money.
The quarters on some of these things are shot so then you're looking at quite a bit of cost to go ahead and replace those.
So it's the capability and the design specs of the rigs that really impact how it goes forward.
And I'd say and these units just fell out of the bottom and we did not think the capital required to get these rigs in a workable shape you would have a limited capacity rig and it would suck up capital that could be better spent on new equipment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And how much you think it would cost to convert those into its kind of a production unit ballpark? Do you have any sense...
That's not our business and that all -- it usually depends upon the aspects of the customer.
So there's a wide range there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can have one more just a different angle a different approach.
Because I know some people have asked about Brazil on the call it would strike me that given their emphasis to move back into the Campos to go back into a bigger kind of cash flowing of assets thought process that that would be very good for demand for your rigs at least through '15 and possibly beyond.
Maybe in '15 they go to start looking more towards the Pre-Salt in developing that but it seems like the impetus is the cash flow and meet kind of reduce targets.
Is that your sense as well? Because that strikes me as being very positive for you guys versus being a liability.
I guess all I can say is I know what we got and what we can offer and it's matched up very well with what they've done in the past as -- they're looking at where they want to develop fields and what production they want to move on.
And whatever they do with new construction it's still many many years before that's delivered.
And don't forget this Campos Basin work and stuff we're contracted until 2015 for all of that as we currently sit.
So we're positive that that's going to continue even beyond '15.
So that really is I agree is good for our fleet as it sits.
And then we've got also assets that work in the Pre-Salt which is of course the future of Brazil.
But we don't have a big concern in Brazil at the moment.
We have discussions with them and we continue to see development in the Campos area so we see it as a positive for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> I would imagine given the fact that -- whatever they have contract is kind of across their fleet let's call it it's going to have to markup in dayrates significantly.
Actually keeping some of -- keeping middle water rigs employed at probably what is lower than kind of the marginal ultra-deepwater rate you can fill in the blank over what time period that you think that is.
Probably it still makes a lot of economic sense than even beyond 2015 especially if they're going to be very cost conscious.
I would agree with that statement.
I'd like to thank everybody for joining us and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Diamond Offshore Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Diamond Offshore First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations to begin.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President And Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Acuff Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas of the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Darren and welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore First Quarter Conference Call.
I wanted to have a brief opening statement and then I'll let Michael give you some color on the market and then Gary Krenek will go through more detail on the financials.
I think the key drivers that we look at and apply to all drilling contractors are the revenue and the day rates that we're earning in this quarter were booked quite a bit before.
So really the key variable that's why investors interested in clearly are the future day rates and where we're signing those.
The market remains strong we believe across all the categories that we operate in.
Seeing renewal rates increasing in those categories.
We chose to highlight here in our press release some activity in the mid-water market which we think doesn't necessarily get a lot of press out there because not everybody has a big presence in that market.
But again we found that market to be very strong.
Our North Sea rigs which we've highlighted are among the most profitable in our fleet and probably within the industry when you look at the low operating costs that occur in that environment and the future day rates that we've got booked going forward.
We have one of those rigs scheduled as we indicated to go to Latvia and in an increased day rate which will be a new country for us.
And then as well we highlighted the fact that we just this week signed a contract to take a mid-water rig the Ocean Saratoga out of the Gulf of Mexico and work it in Nicaragua.
And so I think that the key thing that we emphasize is that there's a lot of countries that haven't had a lot of exploration activity in them.
And so initial wells can very often be in the 500- to 2 000- 3 000-foot water depths which are where mid-water rigs operate and when you look at the deepwater and ultra-deepwater demand taking those rigs in deeper water this is really the tools that are available sometimes.
On the cost side.
Our drivers are both cost and days of uptime.
Our cost in general came in our drilling costs at $375 million per quarter which is flat more or less with where we were in Q4.
We are down when we're running almost $400 million at the beginning of Q2 and Q1 of last year.
And we've got a lot of activities going on there watching what we're being able to do drawdown some of our pre-existing stock and utilizing that in lieu of that making sure that our crews are deployed at the appropriate level and just a lot of effort going on across the board and I think we've been doing this now for 5 or 6 quarters.
So not saying that from time to time we might not have a blip and go above that but I'm very confident that we've got methods and systems in place to try to achieve the maximum efficiency in that group even in a world where labor costs are going up and we're seeing some price rises on goods and services that we have.
The bigger impact though is the amount of days that we spend off contract in a particular quarter.
And for this quarter the unanticipated equipment downtime ran 157 days which is up slightly from 130 days that we had in the quarter before well within what we would ordinarily expect to run this fleet at.
We have had some quarters looking back 3 or 4 we went down as low as 90 days a quarter.
So we were capable of achieving better but there's so many variables that deal with that.
We had some subsea equipment.
We had time down while we we're changing out these bolts that everybody's been focused on.
All that impacted us to some degree.
Then we had 375 days of rigs either mobing or in the shipyard for the quarter and that's down actually from what we had given guidance on where we were in the 400-day range.
So we were -- we did fairly well on that and there's these all kind of variables but the biggest thing is that some of the time where we have to have rigs in shipyards was not completed this quarter and slipped into the future quarters.
We had some time that are ran over.
I'm going to talk about our construction program but even within this group of the 375 days that we have down.
We have 2 rigs the Ocean Quest and the Ocean Rover.
They were both having substantial upgrades to their quarters to increase their capacity.
All of which will be related to higher day rates in the future.
So there's some investment as it goes on in that group.
On the construction front we've got 7 projects underway in various stages 4 drillships in Korea we've got the Ocean Onyx in Brownsville and the Ocean Apex in Singapore which is recently in Singapore and Korea and those programs are progressing very nicely.
The Ocean Onyx we did adjust delivery date on that.
We found that we had more upfront steel that we had to put in the unit that we'd anticipated and that gave us some cost and some time so we've now adjusted that to a late September delivery date in this year.
The Onyx as you recall is contracted for a 1 year program here in the Gulf of Mexico at a very nice day rate and we're looking forward to that.
That will be a first of our project.
It's out and working.
The Ocean BlackHawk is moving along very nicely for delivery out of the shipyard later in the summer and then the mobilization in various other projects that we've got to do before we deliver that unit here.
The seventh project that we've got is the Ocean Patriot where we will be spending approximately $120 million to prepare it for a 3-year North Sea program.
We're able to take best the out of the Pacific market which our announcement I think we've seen some response from customers there with our remaining units and they were there now.
Realized that there's not unlimited availability.
So it's helped us out there as well as having the project going in the North Sea.
And we have not begun that project yet except for some planning and some ordering of equipment as the Patriot continues to work in that market and so that takes through the construction the cost the day rates.
And so now Michael Acuff give you some more detail behind where day rates are.
Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
As we enter the second quarter of 2013 the offshore drilling industry continues to be robust across most markets with our expectations that this market strength will continue for the foreseeable future given steady commodity price.
Looking at the various floating market segments.
The ultra-deepwater market continues to lead the charge highlighted by significant numbers new fixtures in the industry in the past few weeks taking several new build rigs and other available rigs off the market for 2013 and 2014.
This trend should continue into the second quarter of the year as we believe several of the industry contracts are currently under discussion with deal announcements expected soon.
Upon completion of these deals we estimate that there will be a total of 4 new builds available in late 2013 or early 2014 with 3 of those having delivery in Q2 of 2014 which is simultaneous with our Ocean BlackRhino.
With respect to contractual status of our available ultra-deepwater drillships we are currently in discussions with a couple of potential operators on the Ocean BlackRhino for utilization either in the Gulf of Mexico or West Africa.
Additionally we're already seeing interest in the Ocean BlackLion the fourth of our 4 drillships which will be delivered at the end of 2014 for drilling programs starting in early 2015.
As we develop these discussions going forward they will keep you updated on those discussions.
Turning to deepwater.
We continue to see steady demand for rigs in this segment with pricing continuing to remain solid.
The primary areas driving this segment are West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico.
For example the Ocean Victory has secured 1 well job with Stone Energy in the Gulf of Mexico at $480 000 per day from a previous long-term rate of $420 000 taking that rig's availability out into December 2013.
Additionally the Ocean Valiant which is currently working for Hess in Equatorial Guinea is receiving a strong interest from a number of customers who have wells or programs in the first half of 2014 in West Africa as well as we've seen 1 or 2 longer-term follow-on opportunities that we're discussing starting in mid-2014.
Turning to the mid-water segment.
We're very encouraged as Larry said by the continued demand for our rigs in the various international markets.
As we discussed in our press release we just yesterday signed a 1 well plus 1 well option for the Ocean Saratoga in Nicaragua with Noble Energy and that will take the rig into November if not further in -- the key avoiding any downtime related to the hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico.
We believe this positions us well as the only mid-water rig in the Gulf of Mexico and Central America regions for work into late 2013 and into 2014.
In the North Sea the Ocean Princess is well-positioned to take advantage of the very strong market there as it is the first rig available with the current contract ending in November 2013.
We're currently having discussions with several customers on this rig who would like access to the rig and believe we will have a contract to them here in the near future.
Finally in Asia we believe that even though rates have not moved significantly in that market there's a steady stream of exploration wells and development project opportunities that will keep the Ocean General busy in the early 2014 and beyond.
We anticipate that this additional backlog will potentially translate into better day rates as the market tightens in 2014.
So in summary we continue to see a strong ultra-deepwater market in 2013 and into 2014 and are encouraged by the continued demand for our deepwater and mid-water units at attractive day rates.
With that I'll turn it over to Gary.
Thanks Michael.
As in the past I'll make a few comments on the past quarter that just ended and what we expect to see going into the second quarter and the rest of 2013.
For the first quarter of 2013 we reported net income of $176 million or $1.27 a share earnings.
On contract drilling revenues of some $700 million; that compares to $1.12 we made last quarter on $741 million worth of revenues.
Overall for at least financially speaking it was a fairly quiet quarter.
The biggest item I believe was in our tax line where we booked a tax benefit of some $28 million for some tax legislation that was passed in January of this year.
It was applicable to the year 2012 but because of accounting rules we were not allowed to book that back in the '12 but rather booked it here in the first quarter.
That $28 million benefit drove our tax rate to just under 15% for the quarter.
This shouldn't come as a surprise.
Anyone everyone should've anticipated this as we discussed this on our last conference call and the benefit came in almost exactly as we had expected to be.
Other things that -- from the last conference call that we did and some of the guidance some difference is we had expected the Ocean Patriot to do their survey which would have caused 37 down days in Q1 and the Nuggets has some can repairs that needed to be done which would have taken the rig out of service for about 30 days.
Both of those 2 projects did not occur in the first quarter.
Just -- timing of wells and they've been pushed back into Q2.
So we'll see those down days in Q2 and the associated cost with them.
Looking at contract drilling expense.
Our cost Larry spoke about that sum in his opening remarks.
Those costs came in at $375 million for the first quarter.
We had guided to a $390 million to $410 million figure.
So we came in below that.
Some $7 million to $10 million of those savings were due to the Patriot surveys.
So those are costs that will just be pushed back.
We also have the Quest down virtually the entire quarter in Q1 which was expected and put out in our rig status report.
The cost for the Quest and that survey continues into the second quarter those costs came in about $7 million under what we expected and at this point we're not sure whether that's timing.
I believe some of that is timing obviously pushed back into Q2.
Some of that maybe cost savings and maybe bringing that project in below some of our expectations.
But if you take some of the Quest cost in the Patriot and factor that in to our actual cost we actually came in right at the bottom edge of the guidance of $390 million or so.
So the guidance was good.
At the same time a reflection of continuing the whole cost down we did come in at the bottom of that guidance.
So we're very happy with that.
The other line items and income statement.
Appreciation went $97 million that's slightly higher than our guidance of $94 million to $96 million and we'll be adjusting our go-forward guidance to reflect that although with a slight increase.
G&amp;A came in as expected.
Interest expense came in at $8 million.
That's above the $6 million to $7 million guidance.
That's all a factor of capitalized interest which becomes -- it's fairly difficult for us to pinpoint exactly so not very far off.
And the tax rate we had expected to come in at 11% to 13% and that's what I have talked and said at the last conference call came in slightly above that at 14.6 and that's due to some of the mix in the income and also in the increase were a little bit higher than expected.
Pretax income which was booked at 28% and when you factor that in with our $28 million credit the ratio came out to the 14.6%.
Looking forward into the next quarter.
Some of the things that are going to drive the quarter again the Patriot survey and the Nugget can repair is being pushed into Q2.
That'll affect the second quarter.
We're going to finish up the Quest but we also have the Vanguard beginning at survey.
Those things will affect the quarter.
Couple of other minor modes in the contract prep downtime and I'll refer you to the rig status report for the exact details on that that we released last night.
I would point out one thing though that the total expected downtime for the year did go up slightly above what was being reported last quarter.
And something that Michael had said in his talk a large portion of that is downtime on the Saratoga.
Some 60 days related to contract prep and mode time to go down to Nicaragua.
So while that did increase our downtime by 60 days what that does avoid is having the rig in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season where very possible the rig would have been stuck for some 120 days last we waited out the hurricane season.
So that additional downtime actually a net good to us.
Looking at contract drilling expense in Q2 and some guidance there but before as always I want to remind everyone that I'll be talking about the line contract drilling expense on our income statement only.
The numbers will not include cost incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
So with just contract drilling expenses we believe those will come in somewhere between $375 million to $395 million in Q2.
As comprised of our normal operating costs survey cost for the Patriot Vanguard and completion of the Quest and also some mobe costs of approximately $11 million to $13 million that we're expecting in the quarter.
Larry in his opening remarks talked about some of the past contract drilling expense and what we've averaged.
Actually over the last 8 quarters we've averaged to $387 million and so that's right in the middle or my guidance of $375 million $395 million is right in the middle there.
And again just to reiterate our efforts on cost containment in the efforts we put in on that for the past 2 years we continue to hold those costs steady and we're very proud of that.
Some of the other line items.
Looking forward in the next quarter.
G&amp;A will continue to be $17 million to $18 million.
Depreciation we believe will be between $97 million and $100 million.
That's again based on what actual Q1 was and the fact that we got a couple of extra days in Q2.
We'll drive the cost a little bit above what the Q1 cost was.
Interest expense we believe for Q2 will be approximately $6 million or $7 million; again that's a net interest expense after capitalized interest and our effective tax rate we believe for the rest of the year will be somewhere between 28% and 30%.
And finally on our capital expenditures.
Same guidance as last quarter.
Maintenance capital remains steady at $325 million.
Our expectations in the new builds including the Onyx the Apex the drillships and the Patriot a little over $1.4 billion for a total CapEx of $1.75 billion or approximately around that number.
And just a little bit of heads up for Q3 if you refer to our rig status report you'll see.
We have a number of rigs coming in to the shipyard or expected to come in in Q3 for their 5-year survey.
This is a heavy year for us.
And at this point we're anticipating 7 rigs in the shipyard for Q3.
So that will of course have an effect on revenues and costs in that quarter.
With that I believe we'll turn it over for questions.
Operator at this time we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions please.
First I wanted to ask about the outlook for the Quest and whether you perceive any indications from OGX as to whether they might be inclined to renew that rig or if you envision keeping it in Brazil or moving it towards end of this year? Secondly Gary I don't -- I might have missed I don't know if you addressed or did not address whether you're maintaining your full-year operating expenses that you've guided previously? I'll answer that and let Michael talk about the Quest.
Yes the full year remains consistent somewhere between $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion.
On the Quest end in the past quarter we have had discussions with OGX about possible extension on the Quest.
We had no reason to believe that's not still the case but obviously their situation could change depending on what strategy they take.
So -- but right now we firmly believe the Quest will stay with OGX.
Research Division</strong> We would presume the market rate is higher than where it's working now.
Would you have any commentary on where you think the market rates are? I wouldn't talk because -- I'm sorry go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Well it seems to be kind of an in betweener in that mid deepwater range so but I would think that the rate is market will be higher than 2 65 now.
No I agree.
I think that's a good assumption.
I mean obviously I'm not going to rebuild the rate but it will be an uptick from where we are today.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Michael really could you just provide a little update I mean clearly the Patriot's moving to the U.K.
you mentioned that maybe the mid-water market in Asia-Pacific is tightening up.
Could you talk a little bit on what that means for the general? I believe there it has -- I believe that rig has a couple of options that are on price.
Have you seen any discussion have discussions arisen yet for that for those options on that rig? We're just now starting to really enter the discussion phase of those options.
That consortium has had several exploration wells that they've been drilling and so a lot of it's dictated on the results they have from those initial wells.
But I would say in general no pun intended we're starting to see more exploration in the Indonesia area in the Vietnam market even up in the Myanmar now.
So that whole market is just starting to pick up in activity and we believe that bodes well for the general.
Additionally as I mentioned in my notes there are a couple of longer-term development programs or an even longer-term exploration program that we believe could add some significant backlog or allow the opportunity to add significant backlog to the rigs.
So I'm actually very positive on that market right now and of course bringing the Patriot out of there and into the North Sea that reduces the units by 1 but a lot of times I believe we were sharing work between the Patriot in general at times.
So it should push more work towards the general.
Research Division</strong> Okay great And then just one follow-up for Gary.
I mean as we look at taking delivery over the rigs that are coming out of the shipyards over the next -- call it 2 years beyond the existing revolver is there a thought process about potentially coming back to either to the bond market or to the banks to sort of bring in more financing into the company? We certainly have the potential to do that.
Right now our -- we have a 0 net debt.
We have $1.5 billion of that -- $1.5 billion of that cash but we do have a lot of payments.
We have the 70% flat payments on all 4 of the drillships and so I think if you run the numbers out obviously we'll need some type of help to complete paying this new build program that we're in right now.
We do have the $750 million revolver that we can draw upon that we put into effect approximately 6 months or so ago.
So we'll look at that we'll look at the debt market.
Interest rates are extremely low as everybody knows we'll certainly take advantage of that.
So we'll keep our options open.
We're not adverse to taking on some additional debt in the company because simply -- because we're so under levered at this point.
So we'll continue to monitor the situation and to do what we think is best.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Larry I just wanted to confirm that there's really no more opportunities for you guys to bring another water rig into the U.K.
as you pretty much exhausted the upgrades paybacks and there's an opportunity cost for that market versus the other Global Markets? I would not say that.
There is capability within our mid-water fleet.
It just depends on the economics and what the alternatives are.
I mean if a rig is working one you've got to have availability but if a rig has pretty solid prospects somewhere else and we've got to spend north of $120 million -- let's just say you're spending $150 million or something you need to make sure that the marginal improvement in your rate is enough to pay for that.
Sure we're not going to take the entire fleet over there but under the right circumstances we might be able to come up with an additional rig to go into that market.
There is a quite stiff barrier to get into the North Sea especially for some older equipment.
Patriot had been there before so that facilitated our ability to bring it in.
It's not being a game changer but there could be something else.
Research Division</strong> So basically it's just opportunity cost right now.
And then I guess as unrelated follow-on regarding the BlackRhino Michael you'd mentioned prospects in the Gulf of Mexico or West Africa.
Collectively as a company any preference there in the Gulf of Mexico versus West Africa in placing that rig? You got a couple of things to consider.
One is concentration.
We already have 2 in the Gulf.
That's the concentration.
However when you look at it from a cost structure obviously the Gulf of Mexico is a bit more attractive than West Africa.
So it will depend on term rate those types of things.
All things equal I think we're open to either one it's just a matter of the opportunity and what's more attractive when we put all the variables on the table.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of JB Lowe of Cowen Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on your propensity for a new builds to be ordered once you sign up the BlackLion and the BlackRhino.
Yes we would certainly consider them.
I think that's the standard position of a number of a companies.
But I mean that doesn't just mean we're going to go order.
We've got to study the market and figure out can the market sustain that which can draw scenarios where yes the market can take a number of other rigs and we can draw some scenarios where you begin to have a little too much supply.
So I can't give you a blanket answer that will impact it.
You know that at Diamond Offshore we are -- we always watch what we spend and we are very conservative on making sure that we've got a forward plan to be able to put that rig to work.
And so I don't know at what point in time it will be that we'll calculate those things but we certainly look at it.
Gary pointed out we've got the ability to borrow to if we need some money and we're the only A-rated company in the space and I think it's nice to have that stamp but it's also nice to be able to actually use it and realize lower interest rates.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you would order a similar drillship the one you guys are building now or could you get a little creative with some of your something like that? Well we like to have the diversified fleet so I think I can't say which one would necessarily be there.
Depends on what kind of rates we get on the next to the Lion and the Rhino.
But looking to diversification I think it could well be in the semi-space.
Research Division</strong> And switching gears just a question on the Ambassador.
It's available right now.
If you couldn't find work for it soon would there be chance you just bring the 5-year survey forward from the third quarter? Yes to the degree that we can play around with these surveys and there's a window we try to do it at the most opportune time.
The limitation on the Ambassador is just the water depth and trying to find a market that will take the rig that is really limited to 1 100 feet.
So it could be that we assess and we've decide that we're not going to order for another 3 or 4 years and we may let the certificate lapse and not do the survey at all.
But I can't tell you yet.
Let me take one more question operator.
Our final question comes from the line of Collin Gerry from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just -- you covered most of the questions but we've obviously seen in the market in the financial markets Brent has pulled back which I usually associated with the biggest driver of your customer spending.
I mean to the extent that you've seen any sort of change in behavior or change in attitude in your customers whether it be in the North Sea or in the formal [ph]...
I think you may have been cut off but I understood your question was about Brent.
Higher is better we think but we haven't seen anything in particular in relationship but to this number.
And I would say on the -- for good amount of the time everybody acted as if $100-plus Brent and that Brent premium was not really real.
We would talk to customers and they would say well we're evaluating on 80 or whatever the -- some significantly lower numbers.
So I think there's certainly some cushion on Brent and its impact.
The biggest thing you can see is the North Sea where there's been huge demand and huge demand for our rigs to go long on the commitments as long as 3 years and at nice day rates.
So we're still comfortable that we're well within the range that most projects around the world are economical.
But again you need to ultimately direct those questions to the customers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on that what would be your sense in terms of a Brent price where you just start to see a little bit of -- take the foot off the accelerator? Well there's so many factors.
The speed which it goes and obvious factors that makes them think that it's going to stay down at that level.
But -- I can't pick where it is but it's significantly below where it is today.
Well thank you very much operator.
And listeners we will talk to you at subsequently.
Thank you.
This concludes today's first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
My name is Maria and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Kane Liddelow Director of Contracts &amp; Marketing; and also joining us on the call today from Aberdeen Scotland is Richard Male Vice President of Contracts &amp; Marketing.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Darren and welcome to our second quarter conference call.
I want to expand on some of the issues that I spoke on in our press release and I will also address some of the delays that we put out there in our Fleet Status Report.
First as I noted that we had another quarter of excellent results on 2 fronts: One equipment downtime as a result of failures of equipment.
It's very hard -- we have no idea how to estimate that although we know through our systems a range that we can operate in.
We ended up with 97 days where we were off of contract due to equipment problems.
Last quarter we had 157 days.
We had 100 days back in Q4 so we were within that range.
And so I'm very comfortable that we continue to put in maintenance procedures and equipment checks so that we can maintain performance within that range.
Although we've made that savings we were offset by almost an equal amount of survey time that ran over 60 days and the primary component of that was we incurred 46 days off of contract.
And I say survey surveys and mobes due to the Ocean Lexington which relocated from Brazil to Trinidad.
We had customs problems getting our equipment out of Brazil to be able to start the work in Trinidad and that cost us 46 of those 61 days.
Certainly that would have shown up quite a bit negatively if we hadn't been able to perform as we did on unanticipated equipment downtime.
On the cost front which I think has been noted our cost came in slightly below guidance.
Our guidance is in a range that in itself I think reflects a number of programs that we have in place to try to control our cost and make sure that we deliver every dollar of revenue that we can down to EBITDA and ultimately into earnings.
And we would expect that to continue as we go into Q3.
We have given effective 1 July a rig wage increase across the fleet.
So that will be a factor and Gary will expand on that when he comments on some of the cost guidance going forward.
So now let's talk about some of the equipment downtime.
I'll talk about the Ocean Confidence first.
The Ocean Confidence is a rig that we delivered in 2001.
It's a 10 000-foot DP unit and we had -- that rig was at work in the Gulf of Mexico and post-Macondo we relocated it to Africa.
And at that point in time we delayed and deferred a shipyard job where we planned to bring it in to a Gulf of Mexico shipyard and do some paintwork on that particular rig.
And then arriving into Africa we've had just well after well of -- where the customers -- it's very important for them to get well done either through deadlines or we've worked on some high-profile wells that our customers are very interested in getting done.
So we've never really had the chance to do paint and other work.
Additionally we've had some DP problems earlier in the year and this really is a result of the DP vendor was purchased by someone outside the industry and the new owner of that organization is -- frankly does not want to have any exposure to Macondo-like potential liabilities.
And so we've had huge problems in getting service out of that vendor.
So we've elected to take some steps to replace that system.
In addition to that we need to do some crane work and there's other things that have built up the deferral of the paintwork of course then does not allow you to stay on top of rust.
And so the scope of that paint job has grown.
Additionally there's just not any facility in West Africa to be able to do this work.
So we need to take the rig up to the Canary Islands which is a significant mobe in terms of time and I do not want to take the rig up there and do less than everything that we need to be -- get done.
So we've challenged ourselves to within a reasonable -- what we believe is a reasonable time to do the type of work that I've described.
I've been on top of the DP system get on top of paint and maintenance issues do the crane work and several other systems that we need to work on and frankly count it inclusive of the mobe up there and back then that works out at our 10-month period.
Now previously we were looking at a 6-month all-in job but this just was not time to do all the work that needed to be done.
This is a first-class rig and we need to maintain it in first-class shape and ultimately we believe certainly assert such item as getting on top of the DP system will prevent future downtime when we have problems with the rig and we can't get any response from the vendor to help us solve those problems easily.
So that pretty much explains the Ocean Confidence.
Unfortunately that will be 10 months out of 2014.
But that's just -- that's the way the business is going to work.
Certainly for us and I know other people face that as well when you're looking at maintaining these assets.
Then at the same time the Ocean BlackHawk which was the first of our 4 drillships out of Brazil.
We announced a 2-month additional delay where the rig will now be available in late February.
That is where it will be available and ready to go to work in the Gulf of Mexico.
It is out of the dry dock and we're doing commissioning tests.
And we discovered on the Ocean BlackHawk problems with the engine cooling cooling water that there had not been inhibitors placed into that system that would prevent damage to the engines themselves.
And this damage would manifest itself over the life of the rig where we would take additional downtime and have power problems down the road.
So we've elected to make sure that we can fix that.
So we're replacing the damaged engine parts.
Additionally now that we know of the problem we are on top of what's being done by the subcontractors in the shipyard so that we can assure ourselves that that will not be the case.
We do not have any of these problems presently on drillships 2 3 or 4 which is the Hornet the Rhino and the Lion.
In addition we've got procedures to make sure that we will not have this problem introduced into the system.
So I think if there's good news it's that the delay is exposed just to the BlackHawk.
Additionally I think John Vecchio will give you some color as to how the status of the construction on the subsequent rigs is going compared to the BlackHawk.
So we can -- I think we're very comfortable that we're much more on schedule with those subsequent units than we are presently with the BlackHawk.
Additionally we had a couple month delay on the Onyx coming out of Brownsville.
That's due to equipment deliveries.
It's due to some manpower issues in the shipyard and due to the amount of work that we did on steel replacement on the existing haulages.
We utilized it to start the Ocean Onyx but we're still very excited about having a rig of that capability coming into the Gulf of Mexico.
So with that I'll pass it over to you Gary to make your comments.
Thanks Larry.
As in the past we'll talk a little bit about what happened in this past quarter and then I'll give you a few more details on what to expect for the next quarter and the second half of 2013.
For the quarter just ended we had bottom line net income of some $185 million or $1.33 per share and that was based on contract drilling revenues of $745 million.
This is $0.09 better than the first quarter and most of that was driven by the increase in drilling revenues that increased some $45 million.
Larry talked about some of the items in what drove revenue.
We did have while we had survey downtime in the second quarter it was a little bit less than what we had in the first quarter.
And we had forecasted that and given that guidance in our last conference call.
So that was to be expected.
That had a positive impact.
And then of course the decrease in equipment repair downtime that Larry talked about also helped.
That was offset by the Lexington and the delay in that rig going to work down in Trinidad but all net total drove an increase in our revenues.
The quarter otherwise was pretty clean not a lot to talk about.
We'll give you a little bit of color on the contract drilling expense that always gets a great deal of scrutiny every quarter.
That work came in at $369 million as Larry said.
We had guided to $375 million to $395 million so we came in just under the lower end of the guidance.
Part of the reason for that is the Lexington.
When we are preparing for a contract accounting rules call for us to suspend recognition of operating expense and rather defer that and amortize it over the length of the contract.
We did that and because it took longer than we thought we saved some $7 million of operating expense.
I say saved we didn't recognize it.
It's a deferred.
We will incur that and amortize that over the 18-or-so months that the Lexington is working in Trinidad.
So if you add that $7 million to what we reported we come in at the very low end of the guidance but within the guidance that I gave.
Again we come in at the low end of the guidance excellent cost controls that continue to signify how we're running the company and we're very happy with that.
Looking at the other line items in the income statement: Depreciation D&amp;A interest tax rate.
Those all came in relatively close to where we guided and I won't go over that to save time but rather let you look at that on our press release.
Looking into the next quarter some of the things that are going to drive our next quarter's earnings.
The Ocean Nomad will be in survey -- import for survey during the quarter.
Also the America Valiant and Princess will begin their surveys in the third quarter with some of that dragging over into the fourth quarter.
The Ocean Saratoga is currently preparing for a contract in Nicaragua and doing some contract prep work then we have to mobe down there before beginning that work later in the quarter.
Also we expect the Ocean Patriot to complete its contract out in Southeast Asia and go into the shipyard to begin its preparations for its North Sea upgrade that ultimately will result in that rig mobing to the North Sea and beginning a 3-year contract with Shell that we've announced previously.
I'll refer you to our Rig Status Report that we released yesterday for the exact timing of all of this work and the exact number of days we expect these rigs to be down both in the third and the fourth quarter.
Looking forward to the contract drilling expenses and as always I would remind everyone again that I'll be talking about the line contract drilling expenses on our income statement only and these numbers don't include costs incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
We estimate that the contract drilling expenses in Q3 will be between $385 million and $405 million.
This is -- will be comprised of normal operating costs as always but then also the survey costs for the America Valiant and Nomad that I talked about earlier.
These rigs are some of our larger expense items in the surveys for this year and a little bit above the average of all of our surveys and we believe will drive approximately $28 million of operating cost in the quarter.
Amortized mobe cost and that includes contract prep cost will add another $12 million to $14 million of cost.
And as Larry spoke about we did give a pay increase to our rig hands effective July 1 and so that will affect our cost on a go-forward basis.
So you take all that together we do expect an increase in the cost because of these bigger surveys and the pay increase driving it as I said to the $385 million to $405 million.
I'd take this time to address a question that I and Darren have been getting quite a bit and everyone else may be interested in the answer.
But we've gotten questions as to when will we start recognizing operating cost on the Ocean BlackHawk and the Ocean Onyx.
And just to explain our GAAP accounting and our policies looking at the BlackHawk we will capitalize any type of rig-based costs while we were in the shipyard and during our commissioning period.
So we'll not see any operating expense rather those costs will be capitalized and depreciated over the life of the rig.
After we finish commissioning we will mobe back here to the Gulf of Mexico part and beginning the Anadarko work.
And those mobe cost will be also deferred and amortized over the length of the contract.
After getting here as per our Rig Status Report we expect to spend about 30 days on the final outfitting of that rig and some acceptance testing.
Those cost also -- the rig operating the crew cost everything else those costs will be deferred and also amortized over the length of the contract.
So we won't be seeing any type of rig operating cost hit our operating cost line for that rig until we actually go on contract with Anadarko.
Same can be said for the Onyx until we begin our contract with Apache the cost will either be capitalized or deferred.
So you can expect that on a go-forward basis.
Looking at some of the other lines on the income statement.
G&amp;A for the next quarter we expect to remain constant at something between $16 million and $18 million the same that we've been saying.
Similar with the depreciation going forward $97 million to $100 million per quarter.
Interest expense is where we will have a change because of the down payment we made on the DP rig that we're building and also the ongoing costs that we continue to capitalize with our other projects.
We are now hitting a point to where virtually all of our interest expense is going to be capitalized interest.
We have $22 million worth of gross interest expense in the quarter and we are expecting anywhere from 0 to $1 million of resulting net interest expense.
That's both Q3 and Q4.
And so virtually no interest expense.
Tax rate will remain somewhere between 27% and 29%.
I think that's just a little bit lower than our prior guidance.
That's what we see on a go-forward basis.
And finally capital expenditures for the year we still maintain the $325 million of maintenance capital.
With the DP rig we are raising our guidance for the new build CapEx to a little over $1.5 billion.
So you add those 2 together total capital expenditures for 2013 should come in around $1.9 billion.
With that I'll turn it back to Larry for any further comments.
And let's take some questions.
Operator we'll open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Larry thank you for the description of what the work you're doing with the Confidence.
It does sound like that 10 months is pretty exceptional with regards to the circumstances of that rig.
But can you -- can we draw any sort of broad characterizations of regular maintenance creeping up for the fourth and fifth generation rigs now relative to the past few years or if you think this is really rig-specific here? I believe it's rig-specific the factor that it's in West Africa.
Our only other rig in West Africa is the Ocean Valiant and the special survey that we've been performing.
We've been trying to do that in bits and pieces and we're not anticipating anything similar to that.
And then the unique part of the Confidence is the way it -- we've essentially skipped out on work that we planned to do to get it located -- relocated out of the Gulf of Mexico impacted that.
The other rigs that we'd pull out of the Gulf of Mexico are Endeavor Monarch the America.
Endeavor and Monarch were just recently being constructed and were and continue to be very good shape.
The best thing you can do on rigs is maintain them constantly and not let them get behind.
And the Confidence got behind due to the quick move out of the Gulf of Mexico and then we've fallen behind in West Africa.
It's always difficult to do things there just because the environment that you work in.
So I would not say that that extends throughout the fleet although from time to time there will be a rig in our fleet and other companies' fleets that gets in a situation like this where we got to maintain that asset.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As a follow-up I wanted to see if you could give us some perspective on some of your near-term deepwater rollovers and how the marketing prospects look for rigs such as the Ocean Victory which is rolling off contract next quarter as well as the Valiant which I believe is completing its backlog with Murphy at the end of this quarter.
So can you comment on either of those rigs and what you see in the future? Yes I'm going to let Richard Male who's on the line from our Aberdeen office.
He is our Vice President of Contracts &amp; Marketing.
He was recently over here and called on a number of customers for deepwater and ultra-deepwater.
And I'll let him make some comments on that.
Sure.
We're continuing to see opportunities for the Valiant.
We've had some recent prequalifications that we've responded to.
And I think at the moment we still feel that we'll be able to utilize the rig in West African area.
In the Southern Cameroon Gabon Equatorial Guinea we still see a lot of demand in that area for that rig.
The Victory -- again the Victory we're seeing signs.
We're beginning to see some interest in the Gulf of Mexico.
Relatively short-term at this point in time but we hope that that will change as we progress through the year.
Research Division</strong> Does that contrast with the opportunities you see in Africa for the Valiant that are longer term in nature? A little bit.
I mean the Valiant we've been running relatively well-by-well but we know that there's some upcoming development work and some longer-term exploration work coming up in West Africa.
So we probably got more opportunity to secure some longer-term work on the Valiant in West Africa.
Yes.
And I would just close that out by saying that the deepwater market has fewer assets in there and typically we'll be reverting I think to shorter-term work opportunities and we'll be working at a couple of wells.
We're getting a 6-month a year contract on many of those assets and continue to roll them that way.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about the Ambassador.
I noticed on the rig status update yesterday.
The special survey was delayed.
Should we read that from that delay that there's not really been any productive conversations taking place for that rig knowing that you're not going to recertify it unless you have something to do? Well I don't think in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico there's much demand for a 1 000-foot rig.
That's just not something that's there.
We've got some opportunities in Mexico and other markets but in all likelihood you're right.
We will not do the survey until -- commit the survey plans until we have a better perspective on when that rig might go to work.
Research Division</strong> When does the certification for that rig lapse? Right now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
All right.
And then just kind of a follow-up on the Confidence in the maintenance.
How should we think about the cost during that 10 months? It sounds like some of that stuff should be capitalized.
I'm not sure the breakout between what will be expense and what will be capitalized? We're still evaluating that Dave.
It's possible that we may capitalize virtually all of the cost and it'll actually have a positive impact next year.
But I can't tell you that until we finished the scope of work and determine exactly what all we're doing to that rig.
So we'll make that decision here in the next quarter.
And by the next conference call I'll be able to answer that more succinctly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final one if I could sneak one in.
Regarding your cold-stacked rigs I wanted to get a status update there.
I know you're taking some writedowns there.
I wanted to see if there's any interest in them perhaps maybe the jack-up.
And also wanted to see if -- because you took the writedowns there was anything that kind of forces your hand to actually do something like selling them for scrap or something from a tax perspective? Well we said at the time that it was our belief that we would be able to sell those within the coming year and we're actively working on that.
We just got the one jack-up and we've got 3 floaters in that group.
And the floater demand is pretty thin out there.
So there's not huge numbers of people.
We get a lot of folks with no cash that want to come forward and tie up the rig go bid it somewhere and that to me is not a sale.
And so we are actively pursuing the sale opportunities on those and we will continue to push it on through the year and should scrapping be one of the best alternatives then we'll certainly look at that as well.
We wrote them down such that we felt like it adequately reflected all those possibilities.
Our jack-ups does have some good interest in it.
Our next question comes from the line of Jud Bailey of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Larry I was wondering if you could just make a market comment just on how you see deepwater rates overall relative to ultra-deepwater.
Obviously it has gotten a lot of discussion I think in the industry.
And it seems like the deepwater rates have slipped a bit and demand is coming a little more spot oriented.
I wonder if you could just give us your thoughts on how you see the market for the 5 000- to 6000-foot kind of moored-asset class progressing over the next I don't know 6 to 12 months? Well I think the fourth gen market is in the 4s and they build ultra-deeps in the 5s will be my belief of where we see it.
And there's always exceptions based upon capabilities of rigs or a unique market.
But that would be a general rule of thumb and I know that's a wide range within that group but I think that would cover it.
Research Division</strong> Would it be fair to say that on deepwater in the 4s though that maybe leading edge has slipped I don't know 10% or 15%? Is that -- would you agree with that statement? I'll let Kane Liddelow he's in our Marketing department make that comment.
I'd probably describe it as more flat.
We are certainly in discussions with the Victory.
We've got several operators talking to us about different terms but I would say the writes [ph] are comparable with what we're seeing now.
And our expectations in the customers are much aligned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up regarding Brazil.
You have a couple of rigs rolling down there with OGX later in the year.
Can you talk about the prospects on those rigs and has OGX -- they are obviously having some of their own issues.
What are the prospects for those rigs later in the year and then just overall comments on what you're seeing out of Brazil after the recent lease sale? Well we have the Star and the Quest down there and the Star is farmed out from OGX to a Brazilian company.
And we're discussing with other Brazilian companies additional farm out availabilities.
So you're right there is a significant interest there.
The Quest continues with OGX.
Should OGX not elect to renew which happens end of this year beginning of '14 on both of those rigs I would think there would be markets that would be able to take those.
It's not something that we can just immediately go find a job but the Star's a 5 000-foot rig and the Quest is in the mid-3s.
So think of the Quest really as a -- grabbing higher spec third-generation type jobs and that the Star would be one of the deepwater market type assets and there's active demand for that in the Caribbean and in West Africa with the closer markets to Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak in one last question for Gary.
You mentioned a capitalized -- given the high capitalized interest for the rest of the year you're going to have I believe you said virtually no interest income on the income statement.
How do we think about that for next year? Will that continue into '14 or has that start to -- did the capitalized interest scale down a bit and could you give us any sense of how quickly that may happen? It varies Jud.
We probably -- when we take delivery of the BlackHawk we'll remove part of the base that we're working off of.
But at the same time we have other things going in.
I would imagine we will have some interest expense in 2014 but it will not -- we certainly won't go back to our full interest expense.
We'll be capitalizing quite a bit of it.
So of the $22 million per quarter 3/4 of it at least be capitalized would be my estimate at this point.
So we'll -- as we do our budget this coming several months we'll have much better guidance in our next call.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Scholl of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the delay in the BlackHawk.
It sounds like that was a bit of shipyard issue.
And if that's the case do you guys have any recourse there for the delay or is that just kind of the cost of doing business? Can you give us a little bit more color on that? Well there will be provisions generally in shipyard contracts that at -- past a certain point there will be some potential fines for the shipyard.
I'm not saying that that applies in this particular case but that's negotiated upfront and it's -- I'm not aware of any contracts with shipyards where they take consequential damages or where stay rate that you have there's just not -- when you look at the cost that your paying for these assets there's nothing in there for that.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And let me ask you this.
Because you guys have now done -- you have an upgrade you're working on and you had some rigs that you've built on spec in yards and then you've also got one that you're starting that has a contract now.
You don't have any more rigs that you can upgrade so I guess this is really more of a question that -- do you think that if you're likely to pursue another new build it would be something similar to the rig that you have with BP that will have a contract or do you think that you would likely build on spec again? And can you maybe talk about some opportunities out there that you're seeing to build with the contract? Well building on contract is -- there's not huge numbers of those and so if you set yourself up for that then there's not a lot of opportunities to pursue that.
We're comfortable with having a certain amount of rigs on spec and we've got 2 drillships and the Ocean Apex that need to go to work probably before we would consider adding more to our spec construction backlog and we would assess the market at that particular time.
I think the harsh environment synergy that we're constructing for BP would be something that might be appealing to replicate that.
But that market itself is not huge so we would have to assess all the construction out there make sure that we're comfortable with our prospects before we'd initiate a spec construction in that area.
Our next question comes from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple more quick follow-ups if I may.
Gary could you -- since you updated us with the third quarter cost guidance would you be able to provide us with the refresh on the full year or just give us Q4 discreetly as well? And then secondly had a question about the Courage and Valor which are going in for the first 5-year pit stops next year.
And what those might entail in terms of the time down and the cost associated with those which I presume would be relatively benign compared to your typical surveys? But maybe a comment on that will be appreciated.
Well we have previously given cost guidance for the year at $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion [ph] and it's pretty evident that we're going to come in under that.
That's driven by a couple of things.
The Scepter survey has been moved back the Valiant and Alliance surveys have also been moved back rather than incurring all those cost in 2013 we would incur some this year and some in '14.
Also the delay of the Onyx that we've been talking about.
We're not going to have operating cost as soon as we expected.
And frankly our cost controls have been better than what we expected.
So I can't really give you any kind of estimate for the fourth quarter.
It -- a lot will depend on what all actually occurs in the third quarter but for year -- for the year we will come in under that $1.6 million [ph] and it's very evident at this point.
So we'll see costs for the fourth quarter.
There are some large surveys there.
And so it's going to be what we have this quarter if not a little bit more -- not this quarter but the guidance for this quarter we're a little bit above that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the Valor and the Courage? John do you anything on the scope of work that will be done? Basically if you look at the survey that part will not be the governing issue.
What will be -- because that will be very quick.
These rigs are virtually new.
The maintenance will be the critical path on that and even that should be pretty benign.
I don't have a full scope yet.
We're actually just starting to develop that right now.
It should come in where our average survey is.
It will come in less than the Valiant and the Alliance which were on the top end.
So somewhere average if not a little bit below average just because of the age of the rigs the newness of the rigs.
Our next question comes from JB Lowe of Cowen.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question on the wage increase that you said was put into effect July 1.
I know that it's baked into your guidance for Q3 but what percentage increase was that? Did you guys say that? No we didn't.
We'll comment on it after-the-fact but we're very competitive for labor and it's a nice raise.
But we don't want to give signals out there specifically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Ocean General in Southeast Asia.
I know it's rolling off toward the end of this year too.
Do you guys have any options on that rig or what's the outlook for that market for that type of rig? We're seeing continued interest and we're confident we'll be able to keep her working.
She's got a good reputation down there and we have a good reputation in that region.
So she's probably one of the rigs of choice in that class.
We are in discussions for work within Vietnam and Indonesia.
It will continue to be well-to-well type prospects which is typical of Southeast Asia.
But we're not anticipating any problems keeping her working.
There is the option to extend the current contract in Indonesia so we're hopeful.
Research Division</strong> Would that just be on a well-by-well basis for the extension as well? That's right.
That's right.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Lewis of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Larry if we can talk a little bit about the fleet in terms of -- I guess there's the Chinese China Oilfield Services out in the market looking for a rig to do some work in the mid-water.
I believe they're looking for maybe a second or third generation rig maybe not one that's stacked maybe one that's in operation.
Is there any thought about [indiscernible] potentially offering up one of their existing rigs that is actually in operation as it rolls off contract for a sale type situation like that? We're not actively pursuing that but certainly we would consider.
We've got a substantial mid-water fleet and if somebody wanted a rig that was recently off contract I think we could probably accommodate that.
It would be in their interest and our interest as well.
Research Division</strong> Otherwise have you had any discussions with anyone over in Asia about potentially selling any of your second or third generation semis or is it still probably too preliminary? We're having the discussions.
We get called all the time.
Just one last question please.
Our final question comes from the line of David Smith of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if you mentioned this but did you have an estimate on what portion of the scheduled Ocean Confidence downtime is related to the change out of the DP system? We're doing all of these things simultaneously so it's not like if we didn't have to do the DP system I could tell you necessarily that it would be shortened.
John? It's not the critical path.
Right.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And I think the Ocean Clipper also has a similar DP system.
Did you have any other rigs with this manufacturer? And if so would those likely be change-out programs in the future? No we do not.
All right.
Thank you very much for your interest in Diamond Offshore.
We'll talk to you subsequently.
Thank you.
This concludes today's second quarter 2013 earnings results conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Diamond Offshore's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
With me on the call are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Kane Liddelow Director of Contracts &amp; Marketing.
Joining us on the call from Croatia is Richard Male Vice President of Contracts &amp; Marketing.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Darren.
Good morning and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Third Quarter Conference Call.
We reported with what would have been otherwise a solid quarter but by now you have seen that our results were negatively impacted by certain customers' credit issues.
Let me begin by saying that in the 22 years since we gained our present size following a merger we have suffered only one significant customer credit issue.
However the events this quarter have added 2 clients which we believe we should post reserves against our billings.
Financial difficulties of OGX have been well documented in the press.
Although it was once a very strong company projects that were ultimately judged noncommercial have deprived OGX of the cash necessary to meet its obligations.
Going into the third quarter we had 2 rigs working for OGX the 3 500-foot Ocean Quest and the fourth-generation Ocean Star.
A write-off related to these rigs consisted of $23 million of receivables for second quarter billings and a loss of $35 million of revenues attributable to third quarter billings.
Let's talk about the current status of those 2 rigs and their future plans.
We were able to transfer our contract on the Ocean Star to another Brazilian operator Queiroz Galvao which will begin in late September and run through February of 2014.
This will take the rig past the end of its original OGX time commitment.
We believe there may be future interest in this rig in Brazil and depending upon our success in obtaining additional work we plan to leave the Star in that country.
The Ocean Quest had been contracted with OGX through December of this year but we negotiated an end to the contract in late October.
This was done so that we could begin our marketing efforts and secure passage on a heavy-lift vessel to take the Quest to Malaysia for operations in Asia-Pacific.
We do not at this time have a job with the Ocean Quest but we believe this rig will be able to take the place of the Ocean Patriot our third-generation rig currently in Asia-Pacific that will be returning to the North Sea for a 3-year job with Shell.
While the loss of billed revenues and off-contract time for the Quest were significant in the third quarter we think it's important not to lose sight of the overall success of our past relationship with OGX.
This write-down was less than 5% of the total revenue collected over the past several years.
Since 2008 we've had as many as 5 rigs working for OGX in Brazil and have received revenues in excess of $1.4 billion.
Our other challenged customer Niko Resources is a Canadian company with activities in India and Indonesia.
The Ocean Monarch was signed with Niko in late 2011 for a 4-year commitment beginning in 2012.
We originally brought the Monarch to the Asia-Pacific region from the U.S.
in 2011 as part of our effort to relocate equipment from the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico following Macondo.
At that time we judged Niko as being capable of fulfilling this long-term contract based upon the financial strength of its partners in the Indonesian prospects.
And additionally we were impressed by Niko's knowledge of the various basins in that country.
Recently 2 things have impacted Niko: major cash flow disruptions in their India assets and the withdrawal of some of its partners from participation in the Indonesian program.
At present the Ocean Monarch is idle while we attempt to negotiate a repayment plan for our owed receivables and determine Niko's future commitment to the rig.
We have interest in the rig from other operators but typical customer lead time in this region makes it unlikely that we will be back on dayrate before the second quarter of 2014.
While we have not yet resolved the future of the Ocean Monarch we believe that the rig's 10 000-foot capability and its excellent operating history will earn it an Asia-Pacific job.
We also have another rig the Ocean Lexington currently working in Trinidad for a consortium of companies including Niko and the lead operator BG.
In late September the Lexington was scheduled to begin work for Niko but having been notified that it would be unlikely to collect those billings for the Niko job we elected to sit idle for approximately 30 days before resuming operations for BG.
The impact to revenue of not working for this period is expected to be approximately $9 million of lost fourth quarter revenue.
Let me turn to shipyard delays.
In our Rig Status Report issued yesterday we updated the delivery schedule of rigs under construction to reflect delays on some of the units.
If there's a common thread it's that this equipment supplier has continued to impact these projects.
Equipment delivery challenges are not limited just to BOP but affect equipment across the board from engines to drilling systems and we believe tight schedules are affecting the entire industry not just Diamond Offshore.
That said we believe that we have adequately accounted for all of this on our revised schedule and you can continue to monitor our Rig Status Report for further updates.
We look forward to the imminent deliveries of the BlackHawk and BlackHornet and our work with Anadarko in the Gulf of Mexico for the next 5 years.
Finally I'd like to say a few words on overall market conditions which apart from these customer-specific problems remain stable.
In ultra-deepwater there have been some fixtures announced with term at attractive rates which provide solid data points of demand for rigs to be delivered next year.
We are participating in customer discussions and believe that a number of potential opportunities exist for the Ocean BlackRhino as well as the BlackLion.
In deepwater we've seen strong customer interest in our units for upcoming availability.
The Ocean Apex our 6 000-foot semi has received a letter of intent from a major oil company to begin working in Q4 of next year for approximately 6 months at a dayrate that is comparable to our other new deepwater semi the Ocean Onyx.
We see additional opportunities for both the Onyx and Apex beyond what we've initially contracted.
Finally for our new harsh environment semi we have decided to follow a naming convention of using ocean predators.
Our first rig which is contracted with BP will be named the Ocean Great White as our initial location will be off South Australia where that species is active.
We think the Great White will reflect that locality and provide a strong identity for our customers and crews.
With that I'll turn it over to Gary.
Thanks Larry.
As always I will give a little color on this past quarter's results and then cover what is to be expected for the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the quarter just ended we had after-tax net income of $95 million or $0.68 per share.
That was based on contract drilling revenues of $691 million.
EPS decreased from $1.33 in the second quarter due to lower contract drilling revenues and an increase in quarter-over-quarter contract drilling expenses.
Larry has already discussed our customer nonpayment situation so I will not add much additional commentary other than to recap the numbers.
Per GAAP rules we were required to record a bad debt expense of $23 million pretax for our outstanding receivables at June 30 and we were not able to recognize revenues in the third quarter of approximately $70 million that we billed our customers in accordance with our contracts thus reducing drilling revenue for the current quarter by that amount.
All told these items resulted in an after-tax EPS reduction of $0.54 per share.
Otherwise our results for the third quarter were fairly clean.
Next I'd like to discuss contract drilling expenses.
We came in at $419 million which was about 3% over the high end of our guidance of $405 million.
There were 3 main items contributing to costs running higher than expected: the mobe of Ocean Ambassador to a shipyard to prepare for its Pemex contract slightly higher than expected labor costs associated with crewing up our new-build rigs and we also had a catch-up in spending for deferred major maintenance project cost in the prior quarters.
Taking results for the first 9 months into account for the full year 2013 we still expect contract drilling expense to come in slightly below the low end of our original guidance range of $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion.
Looking at the other lines on the income statement depreciation G&amp;A interest expense and our Q3 tax rate.
Those all came in relatively close to where we had guided in our last conference call.
In order to save time I won't restate these numbers here but rather refer you to the income statement included in our press release.
Now looking forward to a few of the items that will impact our next quarter's earnings.
The Ocean Valiant and Ocean Ambassador will be out of service the entire quarter with the Valiant out for its 5-year survey and the Ambassador doing both its 5-year survey as well as preparing for its upcoming 2-year contract in Mexico.
The Ocean Princess and Ocean America will also be in port for a portion of Q4 completing their 5-year surveys.
In addition to these survey projects we expect the Ocean Patriot to complete its contract in Southeast Asia and mobe to a shipyard to begin its upgrade work before relocating to the North Sea for a 3-year contract with Shell.
Also as previously mentioned by Larry the Ocean Quest will be mobing from Brazil to Southeast Asia.
I'll refer you to our Rig Status Report that were released this morning for the exact timing of all these work and the exact number of days we expect rigs to be down in the fourth quarter.
As previously mentioned during the fourth quarter we do not expect to recognize revenue from our customer Niko on the Ocean Monarch or the Ocean Lexington.
Before I discuss contract drilling expenses in Q4 as always I would remind everyone that I will be talking about specific line item contract drilling expenses on our income statement.
These numbers do not include reimbursable expenses which are reported on a separate line.
We estimate the contract drilling expenses in the fourth quarter will be between $405 million and $425 million.
This will be comprised of our normal operating costs as well as the survey costs for the America Valiant Princess and Ambassador that I mentioned earlier.
Survey costs for these rigs which are already included in my estimate should be approximately $25 million to $30 million during the quarter.
Also included are cost to mobe the Quest to Southeast Asia which will total approximately $12 million and be expensed in Q4.
Amortized cost and contract prep cost will add another $7 million to $10 million to contract drilling expense in Q4.
And finally our large maintenance -- major maintenance projects have historically been completed and our costs are recorded during the fourth quarter and I anticipate this will occur again this year and have an impact on total cost.
Adding all of these items together we expect Q4 costs around to run $405 million to $425 million as I had previously stated.
I'd like to take a moment to reiterate comments I made on our previous earnings call.
Darren and I are still getting questions as to when we will start recognizing operating costs on those from BlackHawk.
As dictated by GAAP and our own accounting policies we will capitalize any type of rig-based cost while the rig is in the shipyard and during its commissioning period.
Therefore we will not record any operating expense for our new-build rigs during those periods.
Rather those costs will be capitalized and depreciated over the useful life of the rig.
After we finish commissioning the rig we will mobe the BlackHawk to the Gulf of Mexico where it will begin its 5-year contract with Anadarko.
These mobe costs will also be deferred and amortized over the length of the contract.
After arriving in the Gulf of Mexico we expect the final outfitting and acceptance testing of the rig to last about 30 days.
Rig operating costs during this period will also be deferred and amortized over the length of the contract.
The result of this is that we won't be seeing any type of rig operating costs hit our operating cost line for that rig until we actually go on contract with Anadarko.
For our other 6 rigs under construction including the Ocean Onyx and the Ocean Apex the cost incurred during the construction commissioning mobe final outfitting and acceptance testing periods will be handled exactly the same way.
These costs will be capitalized or deferred and then depreciated as part of the original construction cost to the rig or amortized over the length of its first contract.
Looking to the other lines on the income statement.
We forecast G&amp;A for the next quarter to remain constant at somewhere between $16 million to $18 million the same amount that we've been guiding to for the past 2 years.
Likewise depreciation should continue at the $97 million to $100 million level for the final quarter of 2013.
In the fourth quarter we expect to capitalize approximately $20 million of our gross interest expense.
Guidance for our tax rate in Q4 remains unchanged at the 27% to 29% rate.
Finally I will update capital expenditures for the full year of 2013.
We do not expect a change for our maintenance capital estimate of $325 million and new-build capital expenditures should be approximately $1.1 billion.
Together total capital expenditures for 2013 should come in around $1.425 billion.
And with that I'll turn it back to Larry for any further comments.
Thank you.
Let's take a question.
Operator we'll open up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Gary could you touch on a little bit more how we should think about Niko going forward? Is this fully behind us or is this going -- I mean how should we think about like factoring this out over the next couple quarters? Well this is Larry.
We have -- on the Ocean Lexington which is a smaller amount they have a $300 000 a day commitment.
As soon as we go back to work for BG we have solid work with other operators and we have commitment with Niko on the end of that period.
So we've got plenty of advance time to seek alternatives.
So I think that that thing should not be an issue.
On the Monarch we are idle right now and are pursuing other jobs actively.
As we indicated we think that may take a while to secure that.
So we will be -- we expect it will be idle through Q4 before we can obtain something.
We have some interest but I can't give you a particular date.
And then we will work with Niko to pursue receivables that we have outstanding and if appropriate to modify the contract for whoever else we may work for.
I mean certainly we've got a way forward but we don't have a customer identified or a date that we're starting yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But when we think about the remaining for the rig sharing it sounds like that's at the back end of -- beyond this initial 30 days that's at the back end of the contract? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we think about opportunities for the Ocean Victory in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico I guess that rig is on contract through late 2014.
Should we think about that rig leaving the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico? And if it does just thinking about -- from what we hear there's difficulty securing heavy-lift boats to mobilize rigs throughout the world.
Is that something where if the rig is to leave the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico the transportation of that rig out of the Gulf of Mexico needs to be lined up sooner rather than later? I think that is correct.
We're here through just the beginning of '14 to January of '14 on the Ocean Victory.
But we do have other interest in it in this theater.
I can't say that we wouldn't mobilize it somewhere.
But I think with moving some of the other rigs around we're adequately covered and we're not flooding the Gulf of Mexico with excess capacity in this area.
And there is demand for this type of rig reflective of the kind of rates that we receive on the Ocean Apex and Onyx that are being newly delivered.
So this is not one of my big worry points going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final one on the conversions for the Onyx and the Apex.
It looked like those slipped a little bit as well.
Is that the same type of slippage related to the new-builds in terms of equipment or is there something specific to those conversions that's making them take a little bit longer? Well when we adjusted we looked at each individual rig and in some cases we didn't have a specific item but we thought it was appropriate for adjusting was to put a contingency for things that might happen that we don't know about.
I would say the Onyx as we indicated is due to more steelwork required and some issues with the shipyard and we do have equipment deliveries.
The Apex is not -- has not been delayed as long but there are some of those factors present.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Larry in mobilizing the Quest to Southeast Asia without a contract I think you mentioned that that rig has good potential to replace the Patriot in that market in terms of demand absorption.
But one of the questions I have I guess with the Monarch is that the -- Niko's problems seem to also underline the fact that there hasn't been expiration success offshore Indonesia.
And so I guess to me that sort of puts a damper on the demand visibility for the region.
Can you just talk about sort of the character of deepwater and floater demand in Asia as it's evolved and how you see the term and rate opportunities for those rigs developing with these many moving parts? I'll let Kane comment on that.
I guess the one thing is we can't comment on Niko's results.
They're active.
But there are other active bids right now in Indonesia.
So there are -- I'm not sure that that's condemned other prospects.
Certainly we see broad demand both on exploration prospects and some meaningful development programs in the same region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess with the Star I think you mentioned has reasonable visibility for follow-on work in Brazil.
Is there going to be I think any moving -- needle-moving demand growth from non-Petrobras participants in 2014 as it relates to floater demand? I'm not sure we can pinpoint that but I mean as you know there's been some leasing activity and movements for more leasing activity from international oil companies and that might be -- that's going to be a demand mover.
What we're pleased with right now is the companies besides OGX and Petrobras that are active down there.
We're working for one of them right now.
We're in discussions with others.
So I would say that would be more likely where we'd be working in the near term while the international oil company prospects develop.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Scholl of Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> So my question first I just want to get a little bit of clarity.
In your press release you mentioned that the LOI for the Apex is similar to the one for the Onyx.
Is that similar both in terms of term and dayrate? No we indicated it's a 6-month term and the Onyx has 1 year.
But we're indicating that the dayrate is very close.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Additionally could you maybe give us an update on the marketing efforts for the Ocean General and then maybe kind of tell us what your thoughts are for the Ocean Yatzy once it kind of completes its 5-year survey after its contract with Petrobras is done? I will let Kane talk about the Ocean General and then we'll come to the Ocean Yatzy.
Well we see the General good through first quarter certainly.
And then we -- there's a range of shorter term and some interesting long-term prospects for the rig in the region.
So we remain confident we'll keep her working.
That's been typical of her work history in that region and we see it remaining fairly consistent with that.
And the Ocean Yatzy we are talking right now with Petrobras on some additional work for it but the rig itself is small.
And it's primarily designed for some workover-type activity.
So it's got a unique market to itself.
So I'm not -- it's too hard to speculate nor is there data there that I think really points to overall market trends for the rest of the fleet.
But we've got to find the right series of jobs for that rig and then the rig will probably require some investment.
And weighing that investment versus the job prospects will be part of what we'll go through to determine its future life.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more if I might.
Kind of just following up on kind of talking about niche market.
The combinations market seems like it's really picked up.
And I'm curious have you guys been approached at all for -- about potentially anybody buying some of your stacked rigs and maybe trying to convert them into a combination unit? Is that something that you guys have even considered doing? We have been approached in the past to look at these.
I think each of these players are analyzing what rigs are available.
There's nothing definite in the line right now.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Collin Gerry of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question now is there's a ton of moving parts that I think we're all trying to wrestle with and it's been the source of the bulk of your commentary and some of the questions.
And I think what we're trying to get to is how to handle some of these in the near term.
And maybe bucking conventional ways we do things on this call but can you maybe just give us a little bit of insight into how revenues should work in the fourth quarter relative to kind of the 706-ish range if you include all the downtime in the third quarter? I mean I'm considering maybe 5% lower than that.
Is that the right range with the downtime? I think we did a pretty good job of disclosing what rigs are in for survey and we do have a good cluster of them coming up in fourth quarter some which were delayed from earlier quarters.
And then we're pretty much telling everybody that it's not our expectation that the Monarch will find a job in the next 90 days.
It will take some time to get it lined up where we're comfortable.
So those are the really big factors.
And of course then the Quest will be mobilizing where -- Gary gave some guidance on mobilization.
But this will be a fact mobilization without a job so we'll be expensing that in the quarter.
And I think if you factor those in I think that'll point you in the right direction as to what kind of revenues we would have.
And it's going to obviously decline versus some of our earlier quarters where we had much much greater uptime than we're looking at presently.
And the only thing I would add is on the surveys as everyone knows those things when we put that Rig Status Report out that is our best estimate at the time.
And most of those surveys are -- the timing is dictated by when a well is going to end and we bring the rig in at the end of the well.
And so the times will slip and slide.
And so please continue to watch future Rig Status Reports we put them out every 3 or 4 weeks to watch where those surveys actually go because that will have a big impact on the revenues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I'm with you.
I think the goal here is to kind of get everybody on the same page in terms of expectations for fourth quarter.
And so down seems reasonable and maybe just pressing a little bit further in terms of order of magnitude is it 5% or 10% or is that as much as I'm going to get? Well we give you all the tools and I'm sorry we don't actually then say "And the answer is..." It's a math problem working off of that Rig Status Report.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Moving forward and Gary you were speaking to the surveys.
And with your fleet 5-year surveys is always something that comes up and cycles through.
Could you maybe just describe in context how 2013 and 2014 are shaping up to be in magnitude of 5-year surveys versus what the average should be? Is it a high year and then that should oscillate down in '15 '16 or vice versa? Is there some sort of profound move versus the average that we should moderate for in outer years? Well '12 was a large year and '13 has been and will be a large year.
And '14 will go down some.
As since they're 5 years I can already tell you model in '17 and '18 are going to be higher than average.
And so next year we're right now projecting 7 of surveys.
We will have done 11 in 2013.
We thought it was going to be 12 and 6 but the Valiant here just recently got pushed out of the fourth quarter of 2013 into the first quarter of 2014 so again -- I'm sorry not the Valiant the Alliance.
So again continue to watch that Rig Status Report.
But yes overall '14 will be less than '13.
Let's do one more question.
Our final question today comes from Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Eduardo on for Brad.
One -- just to go back to the Monarch one more time and then I've got one other one.
When you guys are talking about maybe finding work in the next 4 to 6 months or so for that is that a sublet of the existing contract? In other words those guys will still get a steal of a dayrate that Niko had at 385? Or is that a sort of kind of cut your losses outright cancel the contract and market that thing effectively at a competitive dayrate assuming 385 obviously is still well below market? Well since we -- the contract is still in place right now I can't tell you which way it's going to go.
But we will be looking out after our interests and I'm sure Niko will be pursuing theirs.
Research Division</strong> I guess it can go either way right? Either one of those options is valid right? It could work out to where the contract is terminated and we would have a repricing opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then my follow-on you hinted about the Yatzy being a unique rig.
I think that's something that's harder for us to see just by looking at a Rig Status Report.
If I think out obviously we know anything that needs major jobs so I think we know pretty much everything in '14.
But as I look out to '15 and you start seeing a lot of that core mid-water and some of the other deepwater rigs especially in Brazil become more available is there anything else you can sort of highlight to us because we've seen some of this in the industry lately where certain rigs rolled off contract and it turned out the rig needed a couple of hundred million bucks and maybe the visibility wasn't there.
Is there anything else that sort of falls into that bucket unique-type rigs or maybe -- or rigs where you think there's going to be a lot of investment needed if you will? Well I would say the Yatzy is unique.
It has a 16.75-inch BOP which is not the industry standard of 18.5.
When we added that to kind of stretch the rig and its water depth is ranged it has very little deck load.
So those are all the operating envelopes that we work in which points it in the direction of unique.
And I don't have an estimate of how much cost.
We've been combing through our fleet and the rigs that we've got in cold stack or held for resale are the rigs that we don't think it's worth the money going in.
And it's not always the case of just the money but the limited capacity of the rigs or the age of those particular rigs.
And there may be some more that fall in that range and they would come out of our mid-water fleet.
But I don't think we're faced with any of our deepwater significant 5 000-foot rigs that aren't in good shape.
They might from time to time take some money but we think the market will absorb that and can sustain that and that when the rig comes out it will have adequate capabilities to keep working.
And that's not always the case on some of the smaller rigs.
So that's as good as I know at this stage.
So you're sharing that.
All right.
Well thank you very much.
We'll talk to you again in a few days.
Thank you.
This concludes today's third quarter 2013 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Maria and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Larry Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer; John Vecchio Executive Vice President; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kane Liddelow Director of Contracts and Marketing.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas of the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Darren.
Good morning and welcome to the Diamond Offshore Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call -- 2014 -- 2013 excuse me.
I trust that you've seen our earnings press release and I'd like to start off by discussing the delivery of our first newbuild drillship.
Last week we completed our commissioning procedures on the Ocean BlackHawk and accepted the rig from the shipyard.
And the rig will soon mobilize to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico where it will begin a 5-year job for Anadarko.
We're expecting its sister ship the Ocean BlackHornet to be close behind with a scheduled shipyard completion in April followed by commissioning and mobilization to the U.S.
Gulf -- also to work on a 5-year contract for Anadarko.
Our third ship the Ocean BlackRhino is scheduled to be completed by the shipyard this summer.
The Ocean BlackRhino is right on schedule with a shipyard delivery in early 2015.
We've not yet signed contracts on the Rhino or the line but we have customer discussions regarding a number of potential opportunities around the world.
Clearly the ultra-deepwater market reflects some concern over the supply-demand balance for 2014.
Dayrates have been under some pressure after what has been a prolonged period of market strength.
We're seeing more prospective contracts in the range of 2 to 4 years and for 5-year opportunity.
While we're down from the peak we still see market rates that continue to be in the range that we're comfortable will generate ample returns on our newbuild projects.
Additionally we have taken delivery of our 6 000-foot semi the Ocean Onyx which is now on location and working in the U.S.
Gulf on a 1-year job for Apache.
Our other deepwater semi under construction the Ocean Apex is scheduled to be delivered and on dayrate by year-end.
And we signed a 1-well contract with ExxonMobil at a rate of $485 000 per day.
We have a number of potential opportunities for follow-on term work.
With respect to our mid-water and deepwater fleet investor sentiment has been negative.
I will point out however that 5 of our mid-water units are contracted in the North Sea including the Ocean Patriot which is currently undergoing upgrades before beginning a 3-year term with Shell.
Additionally a number of our deepwater rigs such as Victory and Star have had substantial enhancements and are very competitive in terms of performance for standard wells.
Additionally we can work these units for considerably lower operating costs than fifth generation -- fifth and sixth generation rigs.
And our fleet which is just a handful of rigs that may have limited prospects after completing their current assignments.
However there are potential markets even for these rigs.
We will -- while we are not seeing many term contracts in mid-water outside of the North Sea this market has usually been characterized by well-to-well jobs rather than term commitments.
Our idle rigs include the Ocean Quest and the Ocean Monarch which released following customer credit issues which we've previously disclosed.
The Far East market is not likely as we said to provide work until the second quarter due to lead times.
Although we have interest in the rigs this timeline is still our best estimate.
Additionally the Ocean Valiant has just completed its special survey in the Canary Islands but it does not currently have a contract.
We had expected this rig would work in West Africa but is now being marketed in the Mediterranean and North Sea.
Not included in our Rig Status Report issued last night is that we're in detailed discussions regarding extensions for 2 of our jack-up rigs working in Mexico the Titan and the Scepter.
While jack-ups represent a small segment in our overall result I think these opportunities are representative of our general optimism on the Mexican market.
We anticipate some tenders later this year to potentially absorb incremental mid-water capacity.
And the energy reform that is currently underway might ultimately lead to additional opportunities there.
Turning to our results I will say that an otherwise [indiscernible] quarter is marred by a tax issue.
In December we received a notification from the Egyptian government of an income tax audit for the period from 2006 to 2008.
We disagree with the audit findings and feel that large portions of the potential assessment and penalties reflect the desire of the Egyptian government to increase revenue and are not in line with tax treaties and accepted practices.
We intend to vigorously pursue all legal remedies available to refute this tax assessment.
But because of the inherent uncertainties associated with Egyptian income tax laws we recorded a $57 million income tax liability including potential penalties during the fourth quarter.
We've had as many as 4 rigs working in Egypt but with recent departure of the Ocean Endeavor we do not currently have business operations there.
In a moment Gary will give more color on our results for the quarter and the full year.
Offsetting this negative development is our favorable settlement with Niko Resources.
I'm very pleased that we're able to come to a resolution where we will receive $25 million cash and the potential to receive up to $55 million in future additional payments.
One final item I would like to mention is that during the quarter Diamond was upgraded to A from A- by the Standard &amp; Poor's rating agency highlighting our strong balance sheet.
Along with our A3 rating from Moody's we remain the only A-rated company among the offshore drillers.
And with that I'll turn it over to Gary.
Thanks Larry.
As always I'll give a little color on this past quarter's results and then cover what is to be expected for the upcoming quarter.
In addition as is our custom with the -- our fourth quarter earnings call I'll spend some time providing additional information on what we expect for the entire year of 2014 with regards to various line items on the income statement expected capital expenditures downtime et cetera.
For the quarter just ended we had after-tax net income of $93 million or $0.67 per share.
That was based on contact drilling revenues of $708 million.
This is a slight decrease in EPS from $0.68 in the third quarter and reflects the $57 million tax expense booked in Q4 related to our Egyptian operations for the period 2006 through 2012 which Larry has already discussed.
As highlighted in the press release and as Larry just said the current quarter was also helped when we recorded as revenue in Q4 the $25 million received from Niko Resources as part of the settlement of the Monarch and Ocean Lexington contracts.
I will now address some of the additional line items on our fourth quarter income statement.
First contract drilling expenses for the quarter came in at $409 million $10 million less than the prior quarter and at the low end of our Q4 guidance of $405 million to $425 million demonstrating that cost control remains one of our top priorities.
Depreciation expense of $97 million and G&amp;A costs of $16 million also came in either at the low end or just below our prior guidance while interest expense of $7 million came in above our guidance of $1 million to $2 million.
The increase in interest is primarily due to the $1 billion of 10- and 30-year senior notes that we issued in early November of the year just ended.
Our tax rate for the fourth quarter was of course higher than expected due to the Egyptian tax adjustment.
Had it not been for that the rate would've come in lower than our original guidance of 27% to 29%.
The differences primarily are normal year-end true-up [ph] for geography difference of where we are on our pretax income and foreign tax rates at the different locations where we earn.
And finally we incurred some $229 million in capital expenditures during the quarter almost exactly split 50-50 between maintenance CapEx and newbuild projects.
Before moving on to what we see coming up for the year 2014 and in the first quarter of this coming year I'd like to point out that during our fourth quarter conference call last year we said that we expected to incur some $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion in rig operating costs during 2013.
While there were a number of pluses and minuses during the year those costs actually came in just under that range at $1.572 billion.
Again a testament to our cost control programs that are in place.
Also we said that we expected our 2013 yearly tax rate to be between 27% to 30%.
Again a number of pluses and minuses during the year but our final 2013 tax rate was 29% within guidance despite the Egyptian tax adjustment in Q4.
Other income statement line items for the year such as G&amp;A interest expense and depreciation also came within or slightly under our original guidance.
Now looking forward into 2014 and some of the items that will affect our financial performance for the coming year.
We had a significant number of downtime days in 2013 due to 11 rigs being out of service for surveys.
In 2014 we are projecting only 6 rigs to undergo the regulatory surveys along with the completion of surveys for the Ambassador Scepter and Valiant which were in the shipyard on December 31.
In addition the Patriot and the Endeavor will spend the first part of the year in shipyards preparing for long-term contracts the Patriot with 3-year contract with Shell in the North Sea; and the Endeavor an 18-month contract in the Black Sea with ExxonMobil.
The final significant downtime to be incurred will be down days for the Ocean Confidence which as previously forecasted will be in the shipyard undergoing a service life extension.
For the exact number of down days expected in 2014 and the timing of these projects I'll refer you to our Rig Status Report that we filed last night.
I would now like to focus on our guidance for individual income statement line items for the full year 2014 and then for the first quarter of the year.
Contract drilling expense not including reimbursable expenses is expected to be in the range of $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion for the year.
That's approximately $175 million to $200 million above the $1.572 billion that we reported in 2013 that I spoke about earlier.
The largest portion of the increase will be to normal operating costs associated with our newbuild rigs that will be delivered this year: the BlackHawk the BlackHornet the Onyx and the Apex.
Rig operating costs on these rigs are expected to be just under $150 million.
We also expect additional costs to come from inflation which we expect will be in the range 5% to 7%.
These increases will be somewhat offset by capitalization rather than expensing of operating costs while the Patriot Endeavor and Confidence are in the shipyard undergoing their projects.
I want to add just a little bit more color on our rig operating costs.
In addition to normal daily operating costs rigs undergoing surveys incur additional costs for inspections mobs to and from the shipyard and additional repair costs.
We're expecting most of these rigs to incur between $8 million and $10 million of survey costs during the year.
The exceptions will be the Ocean Alliance which we expect will incur additional costs somewhere between $15 million to $18 million and the jack-up Titan which should incur less than the average at about $4 million to $5 million.
We will also incur amortized mob in contract preparation expenses for the year of about $40 million.
That will be broken down into $8 million for the first quarter and then approximately $10 million to $12 million in the second third and fourth quarters.
Those costs however will be offset by amortized revenues which should total about the same $40 million.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line on our income statement contract drilling expenses.
The numbers that I've just given you do not include costs incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Reimbursable expenses is always -- whatever the amount incurred will be offset almost dollar for dollar with additional reimbursable revenues.
Looking at just the first quarter of 2014 our guidance for contract drilling expenses remains the same as last quarter $405 million to $425 million.
That will consist of our normal operating expenses survey costs associated with the completion of the Ambassador Valiant and Scepter surveys along with survey costs for the Yatzy and Alliance down in Brazil.
Depreciation expense for the full year is estimated to be in the range of $460 million to $465 million.
As with rig operating expenses the increase over 2013 DD&amp;A is due to the delivery of the BlackHawk BlackHornet Onyx and Apex.
We expect Q1 depreciation costs to come in at $100 million to $105 million with that increasing in future quarters as new rigs begin working.
G&amp;A costs are expected to total $75 million to $80 million for the year with approximately $18 million to $20 million incurred during the first quarter and then remaining at that level for the subsequent quarters.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest is also expected to total $75 million to $80 million or about $50 million above the total for 2013 this as a result of lower capitalized interest during the year and the addition of the $1 billion of new debt.
Net interest in each of the quarters 1 through 3 should run $15 million to $20 million with the fourth quarter interest expense to come in at slightly above $20 million.
We are looking at an effective tax rate for the year to be in the range of 25% to 28%.
As always any changes in the geographic mix and the source of earnings as well as tax assessments or settlements or movements in exchange rates will impact this effective tax rate.
And finally our capital expenditures guidance.
We believe that we'll spend maintenance capital of approximately $285 million for the full year 2014 which is down slightly from our 2013 maintenance CapEx spend of $310 million.
Newbuild CapEx for 2014 is expected to be $1.8 billion which includes the final 70% shipyard payments for the BlackHawk BlackHornet and BlackRhino which will be made during the year along with CapEx incurred for the Patriot Apex and Confidence.
That along with the $285 million in maintenance CapEx means total capital expenditures for 2014 should total approximately $2.1 billion.
Looking even further out we expect 2015 capital expenditures to be approximately $800 million primarily made up of the 70% shipyard payment on the BlackLion and maintenance CapEx.
And with that I'll turn it back to Larry for any further comments.
Okay I think we will go straight to questions Darren.
Operator we'll open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Larry you alluded to the fact that some of your rigs are better positioned than others with regard to those which are available.
Could you walk us through just a few of the highlights of which rigs might be under consideration for stacking at this point and are currently stacked and what's a good timeframe the decision parameters you're looking at for those type of rigs? Well I don't know that we have any plans specifically to idle rigs.
I was just trying to highlight that out of our entire mid-water and deepwater fleet many of them are in niches such as North Sea or in Mexico where they're highly valued and earn decent dayrates.
But if you look throughout the fleet there may be just a handful that have questionable futures and I -- certainly we've idled some of those already.
But I don't -- we don't have any specific ones but some rigs may fall out of Brazil.
And due to its condition or the amount of money that we feel we have to spend to market it in other areas as an example could lead to either being stacked or shifting into a lower-spec market of which there a few around the world that would provide employment for those type of rigs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Which markets where you operate do you think are relatively best behaved right now in terms of demand and opportunity to put rigs back to work that are idle currently? Well certainly the North Sea where you see term and rate and I think a lot of that is due to the premium or North Sea brand oil.
And the fact that there are a number of companies that exist to exploit an area that already has infrastructure that has a mature regulatory regime and has targets which absent the weather are actually fairly easy to drill compared to some of the worldwide areas.
In Mexico you got an area where people -- or the customer Pemex is driven to up production and has not really exploited their semi-target areas as much as has been in other areas.
Everybody's aware of some of the changes may be coming in Mexico.
So that's an area.
And in the Pacific Asia Pacific we are able to employ a number of rigs over there as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Larry kind of circling back from your prepared comments we're hearing about and seeing some evidence of the softening floater [ph] market.
I'm just wondering here if the softness would be in your opinion incurred by lower dayrates.
Meaning that if rates were lower from here that would simulate demand? Or is this a case kind of what we saw back in 2009 but maybe for different reasons or demand was soft regardless of what they have to offer.
I just wanted to try and get a sense of your thoughts around the price elasticity of the market right now.
The price does determine supply and demand.
We all know that.
But I think -- I believe some of the -- like for instance if we take the Ocean Valiant that's come out of the shipyard we'd be seeing focus on ultra-deepwater prospects in West Africa and some of the prospects the deepwater would drill are being deferred with price being a component of it.
But I think another part of it is just overall budgets and -- of the majors and where they're choosing to spend their money or cost overruns that may exist that are depriving some funds.
We think to the degree that this is budget issues that we're looking at deferrals rather than stepping away from prospects.
We know that there's a number of prospects around the world in deepwater areas where there are already infrastructure and trees and what not ready to go and so we would expect that there'll be some increase in demand.
But to get back to your question obviously price does have an impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just kind of as a follow-up kind of the other end understanding that a couple of your newbuilds you're -- that you are recently coming out of shipyard or below market rates right now but in regards to the uncontracted ones what has been the response from operators in terms of your efforts to maintain high level of dayrates? No doubt there's going to be pushback there as there is with any contractual negotiation but is there a level of appreciation on the part of operators that they're going to have to pay higher rates for a newer more capable rig? I'm not sure and I'm trying to gauge how much pricing discipline can be maintained in this type of environment.
Well I think the way to look at it is historically at the award -- at the contract award you've seen see those rates decline sequentially by $10 000 $20 000 a day.
And so we can get a job done and say we need X price but we have to meet the competition.
I think it's an open -- it's a bid situation and it's where it is.
Our next question comes from the line of Klayton Kovac of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So on the last conference call you mentioned the Ocean Apex is having a 6-month LOI.
But in last night's Fleet Status you showed it as having a 2.5 month contract with Exxon.
Could you just kind of reconcile those? I know you've mentioned something in your prepared remarks but I didn't quite catch all of it.
Sure.
That was more of a customer timing issue.
I wouldn't read too much into it in terms of the rig's prospects.
That really was a unique case of a customer timing issue and commitments in country that 2 programs couldn't be linked.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then as a follow-up...
I would just add to that the Apex and Onyx deepwater units being essentially the only new ones coming to market with enhanced quarters and everything that they bring to the table are getting lots of interest in numbers of programs.
The Onyx is working in the Gulf for a year and we've got people looking at it hard for jobs to follow on.
And the Apex has some -- we thought the initial well in the area close to the Singapore area to be a good place to break the rig in and get it going.
And then we've got several opportunities to bid that for longer-term wells around the world.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my next question so I realize you guys have great contract coverage in Brazil for 2014.
But as you think about 2015 what's sort of your feeling around Petrobras exercising its options for some additional work on these rigs? I think it's -- I think if the prospects are good Petrobras will not be taking delivery in that timeframe of any new constructed rigs.
So in order to maintain their programs a number of those rigs would go forward.
I think they'll have a preference for the larger ultra-deepwater rigs that have capabilities to advance their programs.
I think some of the mid-water that we have there might be among the rigs that we have to find alternative work or cold stack.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob MacKenzie of Iberia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to follow up a little bit on the last question and answer if I may.
Larry would you give us a feeling for how you are weighing the decision of the cold stack versus maintaining rigs keep them at warm stack or ready stack if you will and then incurring the operating costs versus a cold stack decision I guess on an older rig that might mean it doesn't work again? One I don't think there's a huge factor at play.
We -- the primary thing that causes us to cold-stack a rig is that the capabilities of that unit put it at the low end of the market and that there's a lot of capital required to keep that rig operating and it's only going to [indiscernible].
So if for instance a rig does not get renewed in any one particular market and it's at the low end that's the driver.
And in most cases they require quite a bit of capital and we're unable to add additional capability.
That's why it's important for us to supplement our fleet with rigs like the Onyx and the Apex and deliver more capable rigs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I believe you mentioned earlier on your prepared remarks that you thought rates still supported new construction.
Would that apply to you guys thinking about building new rigs? Or did I hear you wrong? I think you heard me wrong.
What I wanted to say is that the rates we're in the range that we were still comfortable that we would earn an adequate return.
I'm not sure -- clearly other people have made construction orders so they must be projecting rates that they think are comfortable.
At the moment we've got delivery.
We still -- we have an inventory of 2 rigs that are uncommitted.
We need to commit those.
And we think that the rates that we see in the coming year will still be adequate to justify our decision.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like the Valiant it's in the yard it's potentially being marketed to work in the North Sea I believe so that it could go to the North Sea or the Mediterranean.
In the event that the Valiant were to go to the North Sea is it North Sea-ready or would we have that expected to stay in the yard currently and need to be upgraded? Or is it -- if you could just sort of provide some color around the position of that rig in the North Sea.
Well the rig has worked in the North Sea previously but it was some time ago and so there would be -- we would have to update our safety case.
And there's some pieces of kit that would be -- have to added to the rig.
But in general it's not a major issue.
So I can't give you an answer but it's not as significant in either time or money that it would take to prepare it for the North Sea.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one quick follow-up from me.
In thinking about the market I mean clearly the customers are having lots of questions and there's lots of concerns about the overall market.
Have you seen any noticeable uptake or increase in subletting of either your rigs or rigs from other companies in the market that are actually on longer-term contracts? Is this something that has sort of picked up as we start 2014? Or has it kind of just been steady as it's been over the last 6 12 months? I would say that there's been some activity as it relates to '14.
But what is noticeable is there doesn't seem to be a lot of time on offer for '15.
So we're not seeing a lot ourselves but what we're hearing in the market is there might be some short-term availability as the operators have near-term capital constraints.
Our next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> First it's one of those things that they grill [ph] in the room seems that the stock is really concerned about kind of age of fleet and kind of what has longevity.
I know when everyone else is kind of sort of taking an integral approach to this question I'm going to try to kind of just go right between the eyes on it.
So one it seems like your mitigating factors how much you have to spend on rigs to keep them around are there any rigs that screen for needing kind of a greater spend? And is there any way to kind of quantify so you can kind of really get a good feel for this for kind of what's built in -- what's built for the numbers of maybe what -- what maybe needs to retire over the next couple of years? And I'll leave it there.
Well an example is the Ocean Confidence.
We're spending quite a bit of money scheduled on that rig to get it up to snuff on the market.
But many parts of our fleet we got these Victory-class rigs which range from the Endeavor which will be working for Exxon in Black Sea on down through the Ocean Quest which we just relocated to the Pacific as we release from OGX.
And those rigs have had a lot of capital put in them and are quite capable.
And I don't think that it's a major number but certainly as more capable rigs are delivered on the higher end it does raise customer expectations.
And some of the -- if you take for instance the rigs that we've already cold-stacked and said that we're holding -- we said are hold -- something like the Ocean New Era and Ocean Whittington those rigs are much less capable don't really have room to be upgraded and the amount of money you'd have to put into that we don't think it makes sense.
We'd rather put the money into something like our new construction rig for BP the Ocean GreatWhite.
So that's -- you can sort of look at that and depending upon the way that the market plays out there could be 2 to 3 of those rigs in my judgment that might fall in that range going forward.
But I think there's been some commentary looking at our entire mid-water fleet and our entire deepwater fleet and saying that it is uniformly old and we just don't -- we don't think that's the case.
We don't think our customers see it as the case.
And we're certainly able to work the vast majority of those units at solid returns.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you think that that's over kind of like a 5- to 10-year window? Or do you think that -- I mean how do we think about it? Like this is a quantity.
This is like -- I really think that quantifying this issue is really important here.
So I mean what do you -- do you think that they extend out and can survive maybe through 2020 with some of these rigs or do you think the window is shorter? I don't make any projections for 2020.
I mean 6 years into the future I can't say what's going on.
But I would say that rigs that we've put substantial capital in we did that with the expectations that we would last for some period of time so those would carry forward.
The North Sea is -- those rigs have been maintained and the dayrates are not generally high enough to attract new builds into that area.
So we think that area continues.
And we think a number of markets -- it just does not make sense to use the new ultra-deepwater BP units.
And those will provide some ongoing capability.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could squeeze one last in when you talk about kind of rigs held for sale do you think that they go to buyers that want to operate the rigs in the drilling capacity? Or do you think we have a probability of production platforms or accommodation or -- what do you think kind of happens to these assets that they are not just a diamond [ph] for probably around the market.
Well generally the rigs -- the kind of rigs that we're talking about and we've done this -- the industry had done this over the years very few of them return to drilling capacity.
Somebody will occasionally buy it and put a bunch of money in hang a bunch of scaffolding.
You'll see one down in Galveston from a couple cycles ago that's still sitting there.
I just -- I don't see them returning to work as drilling units.
Our next question comes from the line of Thomas Curran of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So your net debt to total cap ratio has shot up to the highest level I think since the second quarter of 2004.
Could you maybe take a step back and just give us an update on how you're thinking about leverage these days in terms of what would be the maximum ceiling you'd can consider comfortable both heading into the market we're in for the next 12 months and then longer term beyond that? The net debt ratio hasn't changed yet because we haven't spent any of the money that we raised.
We will be spending it as the drillships are delivered during '14.
So it will certainly increase then.
But having said that we remain the best-positioned drilling company out there as far as leverage.
We've always been a very conservative company and we will remain to be so.
I'm not going to speculate as to how much it could potentially change but we will continue to safeguard the balance sheet and make sure we don't overreach ourselves in the future.
However taking into consideration we are still the least levered could we do something [indiscernible] in the future? I wouldn't rule it out.
But again we will remain conservative.
Okay.
And just to point out we have $500 million of debt this coming year over the next couple years.
And so to the degree that we don't refinance that utilize some of the financing we've already had to pay that down and adjust our leverage.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
I guess turning to the CapEx then could you speak to 2015 2016 how much at this point will be left to spend on the existing newbuild and upgrade programs? Well in '15 we'll make our final payment on the BlackLion which will be in the order of $400 million give or take.
And then in '16 the final 70% payment on the GreatWhite which will be a little bit above that.
Research Division</strong> And then turning to the 3 semis that are held for sale just an update on the level of interest you're seeing there.
And then when it comes to the secondary market for older generation deepwater and mid-water units in general have you seen any proactive interests in rigs that you haven't made any effort to market on that front but you're now starting to see people reach out to you on in the expectation you might be more open to it? I think in general there's interest in the jack-up market with people with cash to buy jack-ups.
And in general it's very difficult to find somebody that wants to buy a semi especially semis that have been idle and don't have operating certificates.
Research Division</strong> And so I guess I have to ask maybe this follow-on on the jack-up side.
Other than the Spartan are there any other units you're reevaluating whether or not you'd be willing to sell? Well in general we've been selling our jack-ups for several years now with the goal of focusing most of our attention on deeper water.
We don't expect to raise a whole lot of money there but we just want to focus the company as much as anything.
So to the degree that there was an attractive offer we would consider that.
But our jack-up fleet essentially is in Mexico right now which we view as a long-term market for us and gives us a base there.
We've got a rig in the Gulf of Mexico and a rig in Ecuador.
And so I would say those 2 rigs are not core part of our fleet but we're working them and we got good crews on them and we can -- our expectations is that we would go forward in that one.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Conlan of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to dive in a little deeper to what Tom was talking about do you guys project that you're going to need to take -- hit the debt markets again in order to meet all your CapEx obligations and the debt retirements? We've -- a lot's going to depend on future cash flows that come in from revenues and where dayrates and where the market goes.
I can tell you currently in the near future there's no plans to do so and we don't project any need to go back to the debt market.
And we have a revolver in place.
We have a $750 million revolver that if we need to utilize that we certainly could.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in those cash flow forecasts going forward assuming that operations turn out as you expect at this point how do you feel about your dividend? That's -- the dividend is something that you have adjusted during past down cycles to build a war chest to go after rigs that might be available on a -- on distressed basis? Is that something -- is it premature to think about such opportunities here? Well as you know we don't give forward guidance on our dividends the bulk of which is a special dividend which is declared as is the regular dividend by the Board each quarter.
And we examine all investment opportunities when they're set each quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Loews still likes the dividends though? I believe they liked it.
I believe they like cash.
They have -- all our shareholders liked that.
Our question comes from Lance Ettus of Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> I just kind of have a follow-up on the dividend.
The bulk of the dividend is the special dividend.
I think it's been paid since mid-2010.
I'm thinking you guys don't really get full credit for this because it's divided up for the special and regular.
I guess is there any thoughts to changing the special converting it to entirely a regular dividend? I think we're comfortable with the structure.
I understand what you say because people often -- you'll see a stock table that lists us as a pretty low yield but we think we've attracted people that understand that and the bulk of our shareholders know the kind of yield that they're actually receiving including the special dividend.
Thank you.
And I appreciate your attention during the quarter.
And the company will speak with you again at the next earnings release.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Diamond Offshore's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Kane Liddelow Director of Contracts and Marketing.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of these risk factors that could impact these areas in the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Many of you will already know me from my prior role in the broader oil field services sector.
And no doubt you will be keen to learn what will be by areas of focus moving forward as President and CEO of Diamond Offshore.
I don't think it will come as a surprise but I will be focusing on 3 main value drivers.
These being investment excellence to include asset optimization and capital efficiency allocation.
Commercial excellence centered around customer relationships pricing utilization and fleet positioning and operational excellence whereby we minimize downtime and maintain discipline in operating expense and SG&amp;A.
While of course continuing our ongoing focus on the health and safety of our constituents.
Allow me to dwell on that last point for just a moment.
I've been with Diamond Offshore for a little over 7 weeks.
One of my first undertakings was to understand and review Diamond's approach to safety and the protection of the environment.
I also reviewed our operations management systems and I'm pleased to report I liked what I saw.
I have met all of our rig managers spent time in our new training facility witnessed the ongoing construction of our drillships in South Korea and I have been offshore to visit our newest semi the Ocean Onyx.
Where I witnessed firsthand the outstanding reliability and advanced technology that such a rig from the Victory-class era can offer.
I have visited clients both here in the U.S.
and overseas met many of our frontline employees and a number of our investors.
The message I received is consistent.
Diamond is a proven performer with great people and a solid track record.
We are well known for our strong safety culture.
Have a competent and highly trained workforce and cost controls that are amongst the best in the industry.
And as you of course know Diamond Offshore has recently added new builds and upgraded its fleet whilst maintaining the highest credit-rating and the strongest balance sheet amongst its industry peers.
So when people ask me what is it that attracted me to become a part of the Diamond family.
Well frankly it's all of the above which leads me into our first quarter 2014 financials.
Results were good although we did have a few items working in our favor.
Most notable was a $0.12 per share benefit to tax expense related to a settlement with Egyptian tax authorities.
Additionally our operating costs benefited from some rig survey shifting into the second quarter as well as our successful efforts at managing expenses.
More from Gary on this topic in a few minutes.
As for the fleet allow me to say a few words as an update on contract fixtures as well as the status of some specific rigs.
Last night we released our Rig Status Report which included the announcement that the Ocean Quest has received a contract in Vietnam that should extend until year end.
This rig is new to the Southeast Asian market following its relocation from Brazil.
And the rate at $199 000 per day is considered a rate that was opportunistic to get the rig working in that part of the world.
We are constant -- consequently pleased to put this rig to work and anticipate additional follow-on opportunities.
Also in Southeast Asia we have announced that the Ocean Monarch has been signed to a job in Indonesia for our customer Total.
This should commence in late May or early June at a rate of $420 000 a day and last between 60 and 150 days.
I'm very pleased to see this rig return to work and we are also in advanced discussions on some additional longer-term opportunities for the Monarch in the region.
We previously announced the 2-year term contract for the Ocean Victory in Trinidad at a rate of $398 000 per day.
We are actively marketing the rig to fill the gap before this contract begins next year but in all likelihood we will see some idle time during the remainder of this year.
Our deepwater rig the Ocean Valiant has been idle since completing its special survey earlier this year in the Canary Islands.
We are therefore looking at mobilizing this rig to the North Sea where we believe there will be ongoing opportunity.
The Valiant was originally designed to work there so it'll require a limited number of modifications to meet the most up-to-date North Sea requirements.
However due to long equipment lead times typical in the industry right now this work cannot be completed prior to year-end.
In the meantime we will continue to market the rig for opportunities outside of the North Sea.
I do have additional comments but first I will hand the call over to Gary to discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Thanks Marc.
As always I'll give a little color on our quarterly results and then cover what is to be expected for the upcoming quarter and the remainder of 2014.
For the quarter just ended we reported after-tax net income of $146 million or $1.05 per share based on contract drilling revenues of $685 million.
This is an increase in EPS from $0.67 from the fourth quarter of last year.
And as Mark has mentioned it was mainly driven by decrease in both tax expense and contract drilling expense.
Reduction in tax expense was primarily due to 2 reasons.
First was the successful settlement with the Egyptian taxing authorities of certain items related to our operations there for the years 2006 through 2008.
This settlement enabled us to record a $17 million decrease in tax expense in the first quarter.
Second the normal tax rate excluding the Egyptian settlement was slightly lower than expected which also benefited net income.
I'll provide a little bit more information on that momentarily.
Our quarterly results were also aided by incurring rig contract drilling expense of $370 million which was below the prior quarter's expense of $409 million as well as the guidance of $405 million to $425 million issued on our last conference call.
Part of this reduced cost is simply timing.
Both the Yatzy and the Alliance had their Q1 survey shifted into the second quarter which reduced our cost in Q1.
Additionally the Ocean Endeavor completed its job in Egypt 1 month ahead of schedule allowing the rig to mobilize to the shipyard to prepare for its next job in the Black Sea working for ExxonMobile.
The derrick was taken down and the rig was then transported aboard a heavy lift vessel through the Bosphorus Strait.
We're now reassembling the derrick and preparing the rig to go to work.
During the rig transport and while in the shipyard operating costs were capitalized further reducing first quarter costs.
In total shipping -- the shipyard time accounted for about 1/2 of a variance between expected and actual contract drilling cost.
The remaining favorable variance can best be attributed to our ongoing efforts to control cost which as always after safety remains one of our top priorities.
Turning to a few of the other line items on the income statement.
The increase in depreciation expense to $107 million from $97 million in the prior quarter is primarily a result of the shipyard deliveries of Ocean Onyx and the crew ship Ocean BlackHawk which were delivered in Q1.
The increase in interest expense to $18 million versus the $8 million we recorded in the prior quarter stems from additional debt that we issued in Q4 last year along with a decrease in capitalized interest again due to the delivery of the Onyx and the BlackHawk.
As I stated earlier our tax rate for the quarter was impacted by the Egyptian tax settlement.
Without that discrete item the tax rate would have been approximately 23% below our guidance of 25% to 28%.
The lower rate resulted from changes in our estimates in the geographies and the various foreign tax rates where we earn our pretax income.
As a result of these changes we're now forecasting a tax rate of 22% to 25% for the remaining 3 quarters of 2014.
Now for a look at some of the items that will affect our financial performance in the coming quarter.
As always downtime for surveys and shipyard projects will affect not only revenue numbers but also contract drilling costs.
In Q2 we expect the Alliance Titan and Courage to incur downtime and additional cost related to their 5-year special surveys.
In addition to foregoing revenue during the yard stay these surveys will add some $20 million to our normal operating expenses.
We have 3 other rigs however which during the second quarter will have their operating expenses capitalized and deferred thereby reducing total Q2 cost.
These rigs are the Ocean Confidence which as previously forecasted will be in the shipyard undergoing a service life extension.
The Ocean Endeavor which will continue its preparation to work in the Black Sea and the Ocean Patriot which continues its shipyard upgrade for its 3-year contract with Shell in the North Sea.
For the exact number of down days expected in Q2 and the timing of these projects I'll refer you to our Rig Status Report that we filed last night.
Adding to contract drilling expense in the upcoming quarter will be the operating cost for our new drillship the Ocean BlackHawk which we expect to begin operations in the Gulf of Mexico in the second quarter.
We will also recognize amortized mobilization and contract preparation expenses related to various rigs in our fleet which should total $10 to $12 million.
With these pluses and minuses we expect contract drilling expense in Q2 to increase to between $405 million and $425 million.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line on our income statement contract drilling expenses.
These numbers that I've just given you do not include cost incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Reimbursable expenses as always whatever the amount incurred will be offset almost dollar for dollar with additional reimbursable revenues.
Depreciation expense for Q2 is expected to increase to $113 to $118 million just as we previously forecasted.
Interest expense should be $15 million to $20 million in Q2 and G&amp;A expense should return to the range of $17 million to $20 million all in line with amounts that we indicated in last quarter's conference call.
As I previously stated our tax rate for the final 3 quarters of the year is expected to fall to between 22% and 25%.
Our capital expenditure guidance remains unchanged from the last quarter.
For 2014 we expect to incur $285 million of maintenance capital and $1.8 billion of new build CapEx for a total of $2.1 billion.
For 2015 we're still anticipating capital expenditures to be approximately $800 million primarily made up of shipyard completion payments on the BlackLion plus maintenance CapEx.
And finally we've increased our syndicated 5-year revolving credit agreement by $250 million to a total of $1 billion of borrowing capacity maturing in 2019.
The entire amount of the facility is available for revolving loans which adds considerable flexibility to the $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents we hold on our balance sheet.
And with that I'll turn it back to Marc.
Thanks Gary.
Given the disclosure this morning of our share repurchases I'd just like to make a few comments regarding our thoughts on the return of cash to shareholders.
We fully recognize that dividend income is an important attribute of Diamond Offshore stock for many of our shareholders.
Accordingly we anticipate that there could be some confusion as to whether our share repurchase may signal a shift in our strategy for capital allocation.
The answer is no.
Our strategy has always been to take advantage of industry ups and downs in order to make opportune investments and this can include share buybacks.
Just to be clear we anticipate that the special dividend will remain a priority whereas we would approach share repurchase on an opportunistic basis.
However we will not give specific guidance on our plans with respect to the special dividend or future share repurchases.
Our policy remains that the decision to repurchase shares and/or declare a special dividend will be determined by our Board of Directors based on the company's financial position earnings outlook capital spending and other relevant factors.
Clearly I started my tenure at Diamond Offshore at an interesting time.
After several years of strength in the offshore market where demands for deepwater drilling rigs exceeded supply today we find ourselves with a somewhat uncertain outlook ahead.
There is a consensus view developing suggesting that it's going to get worse before it gets better.
That 2014 2015 could be a tough environment to the offshore drillers.
The large number of rig deliveries is transparent to all yet the short-term demand forecast is not as assured.
Such market dynamics are not new to me.
For those of you that are familiar with my background.
Although we cannot exactly predict where future day rates are headed we do believe that Diamond Offshore is best positioned amongst its peers to weather any market conditions.
Offshore drilling is a cyclical industry and by maintaining the strongest balance sheet and the best credit ratings in the Industry segment Diamond can take advantage of these cycles as it has demonstrated in the past.
From an organizational standpoint I'm impressed with what I've seen so far.
I think Diamond's Offshore safety culture it's service delivery training cost controls are all top drawer.
Nevertheless I will continue to work with the management team towards constantly improving all of our value drivers.
Over the next several months I will be further developing our longer-term strategic options and of course visiting our client base many of whom I already know well.
What I can say is that my mission is to continue to focus on safe operations whilst enhancing our already strong stakeholder relationships.
At the same time I will be seeking further opportunities to maximize shareholder returns through efficient capital utilization.
It remains to me to thank you for participating in this call today.
And with that I'll take questions.
Operator at this time we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Matt Conlan of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Marc welcome to Diamond.
Congratulations on starting with a good quarter.
In the past Diamond has used its strong balance sheet to acquire assets counter cyclically.
What are the opportunities that you see out there now? Do you think there'll be opportunities to buy new distressed assets? Thanks Matt.
Yes certainly there will be.
I think if you look at Diamond if you look at our balance sheet if you look at our credit rating we've got a pretty good deck of hands that we're holding close to our chest.
I'm not going to take the opportunity right now to tip that hand and suggest specifically what opportunities are out there.
But let me just say I think we're best positioned going into this downside of the cycle to take opportunities as they materialize and address some of the asset issues that parts of the investment community are suggesting are holding us [indiscernible] back at this moment in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Without getting specific can we talk about what kind of sized investment you would feel comfortable making if assets became available? Do you have a limited $1 billion $2 billion $3 billion? Where would you feel comfortable taking the balance sheet? Well that's something would be a decision made by the board.
I've got certain ideas around that and I'm sharing those ideas as we speak as I work with the board.
We've had a number of meetings already I've been up to New York a couple of times.
And what I'm saying right now is that everything's on the table and nothing's off the table.
But at the same time we do have to look closely at what kind of leverage we'd be prepared to take on as we take advantage of opportunistic issues as they arise as we approach this downturn.
Our next question comes from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Marc let me echo that.
Congratulations and welcome to this fun time in drilling and to Diamond.
The share buyback was at least in the past many years pretty unprecedented.
So I think from that standpoint a bit of a surprise to us.
And when we think about your first pillar you highlighted in your opening remarks with regards to investment excellence in your balance sheet relative competitive advantage with the balance sheet.
How are we to interpret this recent opportunistic share buyback.
I mean obviously if you do that with much more scale you're eating into your balance sheet advantage going forward.
Is this simply the board wanting to draw off a line in the sand with regard to intrinsic value of the company? Or can you give us anymore color behind what spurred that repurchase at this time? Yes sure.
I'll be totally frank here.
The board authorization was given before I joined Diamond.
The board authorized management early in the year to repurchase shares.
I don't think it's necessarily an indication of putting a floor under our share price right now.
I think it was just taking a look at our balance sheet.
There's various different ways we can return value to or cash to our shareholders.
And at the time it was thought opportune to step into the market and do such.
You're right we lost purchase shares in 2004 but all the time the board is looking at opportunities to maximize return to shareholders and decided at that particular moment that it would be good for our shareholders to step into the market and buy those shares.
I won't comment on possible future share buybacks particularly since Diamond specifically does not have a plan or target with regard to share repurchases.
But suffice it to say the board regularly reviews the company's liquidity and prospects and makes these decisions regarding capital allocation and value creation alternatives.
And that's what they felt was appropriate at the time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful answer.
And if I can have a separate follow-up.
Brazil demand it's obviously been a pretty clear downward trend for the past year or 1.5 year I guess.
And yet still an important mid-water market for Diamond today and you have numerous rigs facing rollovers over the next year or so.
What is your view of where we are what inning might we be in in terms of this unwind in terms of Petrobras' low end floater demand.
And how you see that market? Regardless of what happens with their the [indiscernible] new builds.
How do you think that their demand looks over the next year or 2 with regards to the mid-water fleet that's rolling off contracts? Yes.
Look we generally have contract coverage in Brazil well into 2015.
And of course as you know we are engaged in discussions on expanding a number of rigs down there.
Those discussions had slowed down but they've speeded up again and we are at a sensitive stage in those negotiations right now.
So I'm not specifically going to cover where we are on that.
Suffice to say that we should have stuff pretty close to inked up during Q2 and of course it needs to go to their stakeholders.
So perhaps later in the year we'd be able to give you the outcome of those discussions.
So we remain optimistic in that market.
Having said that yes there is concern about the general direction of that market.
What we have done in the 7 weeks that I've been here is that we've gone back to a clean sheet of paper and looked at the ultimate deepwater market.
Sure we're going into a period of uncertainty.
The cycle is probably going to be a U-shaped recovery rather than a V-shaped recovery but you cannot escape the fact that in the long run the deepwater market is going to be very very important for our energy needs moving forward and Brazil is going to be a component of that.
So we certainly got headwinds in our face in that market space.
Petrobras of course is from a supply-chain perspective not only a good customer to be positioned with but also one that is very sophisticated in that market.
And so we believe Brazil we've got a good propensity down there.
They'll be part of Diamond's future and we're very pleased to be participating in that market.
We have had lot of success down there in the past.
And will do so moving forward.
Our next question comes from Todd Scholl of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to touch base with you guys on the Yorktown.
Are you guys -- that comes due in kind of the middle of summer.
You guys at the point we were having conversations with Pemex on the future of that rig after its contract is complete.
Yes.
I can answer that.
Yes we are in discussions.
We believe that rig will be extended and we also see follow-on opportunities for that rig in that market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know you guys don't have a lot of jack-ups anymore but in the regions where you do have jack-ups what percent of that market that you -- and for the Titan once it completes its 5-year survey is that rig expected to go back to work for Pemex or is that going to be bid outside of Mexico? We would expect that Titan to continue working in Mexico whether or not it's for Pemex or potentially another operator remains to be seen.
But we certainly see a future for her in that market.
Research Division</strong> And what is your sense of the jack-up market in general in the regions you operate? Well we are only operating in Mexico and of course the Gulf of Mexico.
Let me just go back to some commentary I was saying earlier about what we believe is the ultimate strength of the mid and deepwater market.
Certainly if you look at energy needs out for the next 10 years a lot of that growth is going to come from the mid-water and the deepwater space.
We don't quite see the same coming from the shallow water space with probably the exception of the Middle East.
So the Middle East is certainly going to be relatively strong moving forward.
But the Gulf of Mexico and to a certain degree Mexico I think this is not news to anybody is not going to show the same growth as perhaps Mexico moving forward.
What we're going to see in terms of growth in Mexico is Pemex and the ICs that are going in there.
A move into the deeper water space which of course we're well-positioned in.
Our next question comes from Gregory Lewis of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is around the BlackRhino and really the opportunities for that rig.
And I guess the way I would ask this question is when we think about opportunities for new build rigs coming out of the yard it seems like bifurcation and the price spread between older and new rigs has really been wide.
Do you get a sense that the spread between a sixth gen new-build and sort of the fifth gen rigs that you have in your fleet.
Do you get the sense that that spread is actually widening sort of staying the same or even potentially contracting? Well let me talk about the BlackRhino for a minute.
That was the rig that I was actually climbing all over in South Korea a few weeks ago.
And therefore naturally it's our next deepwater drillship that's coming out of the yard.
Let me first address that by suggesting that there was a rumor going out in the market space that we had contracted the rig for $400 000 a day.
That's incorrect.
I don't know where that came from.
But let me follow-up on that.
The BlackRhino will be leaving the shipyard probably September October time this year.
And we are in advance discussions with a key client of ours that's already established as one of our key customers on contracting that rig.
And I will have an update for you during our Q2 conference call.
In terms of the rates again we've seen one of our competitors offered in for a 5.5 generation rig if you want to call it that in Brazil.
We're are at a sensitive time on negotiations with some of our ultra-deepwater ships.
So I don't specifically want to come out here and tip our hand with respect to rates.
But suffice to say we will get the Rhino contracted at a rate that will be higher than the rumor that was suggested at $400 000 a day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I guess moving over to the North Sea the Princess was contracted.
It was that one well extension was that option already priced? Or is that sort of an indication of where short-term work in the North Sea currently is? I would say yes to both.
That option was priced and we're in discussions about follow-on work at similar price levels.
Our next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- there was comments made in this earnings season so far about kind of plowing through some of this capital budgeted betting issue that kinds of pushed a lot of activity to the right and we're starting to find -- it seems like we're starting to find some solutions via standardization being finding ways to lower some of the production infrastructure that's involved with some of these fields and it may bring activity back a little bit sooner rather than later.
If you kind of think over the last 6 months in terms of change of view on the floater market is it starting to get a little bit better in terms of maybe the -- with a thought toward duration or is it staying the same? How are we sort of thinking about -- how the market outlook [indiscernible] changing and maybe how you're thinking about contract durations as you go forward in light of that? Yes.
That's an interesting observation because we've certainly seen some improved points of that scenario somewhat starting to develop.
If you go to Total I mean that's one that's in the public domain and what they recently announced some 10 days ago about block 32.
And how they've taken the investment cost from $20 billion down to $16 billion.
On the back of addressing some of the infrastructure costs and the like.
But nevertheless you cannot escape from the fact that with the repositioning of the deepwater day rates some of our clients and I've heard this -- I can speak to Total because that's in the public domain but I have heard some commentary from some of the larger clients suggesting that as rates normalize if that's the correct term.
But it does change the investment metrics.
And so we might see some of the projects that have been pushed -- pushed somewhat out towards the horizon becoming more attractive and coming forward.
At the same time I think let's not underestimate the sophistication of the supply chain that exists in -- supply-chain processes that exists in some of the larger RAC's [ph].
And obviously they are deferring many of the contracting opportunities that they otherwise would've taken today.
On the assumption the rates are coming down.
So if they can push those decisions out or those [indiscernible] out further the assumption then would be that they will get a better price which again impacts the economics of these very very huge investments.
And we've certainly seen that.
I think we've seen next -- well we've seen 0 contracting over the last -- as we closed out 2013 and moved into 2014.
And some of the contracting well opportunities have slightly improved.
But I guess the suggestion as one commentator put it was it's still next to 0.
I think there's going to be somewhat of a bottleneck that will need to be uncorked at some stage moving forward and we'll start to see opportunities and contracting opportunities manifesting themselves more so than they have done in the past.
As we move into towards the end of 2014 I'm not suggesting specifically that we're out of the woods or we're beginning to see the seeds of -- the early seeds of the market turning around at this stage.
But you've got to take that into consideration.
And I certainly heard it from some of the operators that I have been speaking to in the past whereby the suggestion is that the economics are somewhat changing that might bring back into play what we exactly saw with Total and Angola just about 10 days ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> So from a benchmarking perspective if your following the market and you're trying to make sure you kind of see where the sign posts are.
Is it one of those things where if some projects were to maybe enter the queue for '15 when would you really start to -- given the dynamic you just mentioned about kind of the gamesmanship with clients and the rest are on timing of contracting when is the latest you may start seeing? Or when you maybe expect the time to start seeing people to kind of come to the table with kind of inquiries for rigs and the rest? I think it's going to be certainly a quarter or 2 away towards the end of this year.
It's -- we cannot escape the fact that we got a lot of supply coming into the market over the next 18 months.
And that's going to keep a dampener on certainly pricing moving forward.
But the current scenario that's playing out today I don't think is a long-term scenario.
I think sure we've got the issue with the supply coming to market.
But the lack of contracting opportunities that we are witnessing today is not something that's sustainable.
I think the market will have to turn probably towards the end of this year in terms of opportunity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well as you look -- if I could squeeze one last one.
So if you think about kind of your fleet albeit well-maintained somewhat older and maybe kind of more challenged by say the "bifurcation" issue that's been mentioned earlier in the call.
As the person at the helm now how do you really think about managing those assets? What their duration is and maybe giving us an indication of kind of what may be ripe for retirement and maybe what may be ripe to kind of move on? Because it's one of the thing kind of a challenge I think that people following the company sort of try to struggle with to see? See kind of what those asset values are and how to think about them? Yes.
As we look at the fleet portfolio that we have there's various opportunities that or scenarios that can play out and we are looking at those right now.
Let me just reiterate one thing.
We built 7 deepwater and ultra-deepwater rigs that will be delivered this year through 2016.
In 2010 we bought 2 new ultra-deepwater semis at distressed prices and we'll continue to grow the fleet.
But we'll do so on an opportunistic basis.
Picking and choosing our entry points to address some of the fleet issues that are out there.
But I'll say this.
When I came into the business and looked at it with fresh eyes I was surprised that the -- at the commentary or the extent of the commentary regarding the age of our fleet.
The -- at one stage in my career I was in the military where we flew acids that where actually very aged.
It's horses for courses.
It's how you maintain them it's how you upgrade them that's important.
So it's no coincidence that the first rig visit that I did was to the Ocean Onyx.
Now that's effectively a brand new rig.
It is very different to what came to the market in 1972.
And I'll stand up and argue that is the case till I'm blue in the face with anybody that would want to take me up on that.
I visited the rig.
It's a brand-new rig.
I spoke to the client that's on that rig Apache.
It just so happened that the company man running the rig was somebody that I knew 30 years ago by coincidence on the rig floor a couple of rigs in the Middle East.
He spoke very highly of the unit.
It's horses for courses.
And for the job that it's doing today it's ideal.
So I do take some umbrance with the issue that our fleet is very old.
It's -- it needs to be looked at is it fit for purpose how well is it maintained how well is it operated.
And I think if you look at it from that perspective I think it will alleviate many of the concerns or even the suggestions that we are encumbered by the age of our fleet.
So I'm quite passionate about what the folks at Diamond are doing.
We've got a great technical services department.
I've sat with them.
I have spoken through a lot of their staff.
And so I've answered the question in many different ways.
Yes okay.
We will continue to invest as we grow the fleet in new assets but at the same time let's not underestimate the capability of some of the assets that are described as older in our fleet.
And I do want to make that point that it's -- our clients don't necessarily see it in the same way that has been suggested by some of the commentators out there in the market.
And I'll leave it with that I'm not going to get into the specifics of what of the 45 assets we believe are perhaps nearing the end of their life cycle.
I think I just want to leave that as a general comment if I may.
Our next question comes from the line of J.B.
Lowe of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Marc once again welcome to Diamond.
I had a follow-up question on some of the Brazil commentary that you guys had earlier in the call.
I was just curious as to we've seen some rigs be released by Petrobras before their contracts actually ended and I was just wondering if the contracts at any of your rigs that are down there if you have terms that allow Petrobras to do something similar in terms of releasing the rig before the contract actually ends and if so do you guys have termination fees associated with that? Just kind of wanted to get an idea if that's something that you guys might be exposed to.
Well there is no provisions in the contract that would allow Petrobras to do that.
If any arrangements were to be made it would have to be on a mutually beneficial basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And another question I had was on potential growth of the fleet.
As opposed to alternative uses of capital.
Where would you guys rank ordering new builds kind of in your list of options for using capital be it share repurchases or dividends.
I'm just trying to get an idea of where you guys stand in terms of the potential to grow the fleet anytime soon? Or is this something that you guys would look at further down the line? Well we've dusted off some of our old plans.
We're looking at everything right now.
We're starting with a white sheet of paper.
In terms of returning cash to shareholders you got the dividend you got the special dividend you got share repurchases and of course you got investing in assets.
A downturn provides opportunity especially for a company like Diamond.
So we'll return cash to shareholders as I suggested on an opportunistic basis.
Picking and choosing what maximizes return on our capital.
And there's various stuff that we're looking at right now.
The priority does remain with the dividend of course but we're also looking at other opportunities that remain out there.
So we got a lot in our armory and as we select what we're going to fire to return cash to shareholders everything is on the table.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
If I could just squeeze one more in there.
I just had a question on the Yatzy.
I know that's kind of a unique rig.
I just was wondering what type of work are you guys going to be putting into it when it goes in for its 5-year survey.
And are there a number of opportunities for that rig coming out of that survey? Or are options kind of limited for that rig? I'm just -- I'm curious as to where that rig might end up as we look into 2015.
Well the first thing I would say is that Petrobras liked that rig and it fits its specific purpose for them down there.
We are exploring further opportunities with Petrobras down there.
And depending on what they see -- then [indiscernible] needing to use that rig for will determine the scope of the 5-year survey that's something that's still under discussion and we can't really go into any more details at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is it safe to say that there could be a range of things that the survey might entail? And also a range of costs associated with that? Yes.
And depending on which opportunity is selected will depend which costs we would have to undertake.
But presumably the contract terms would reflect the investment required.
We have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from David Smith of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Just regarding the floater idle time could you please talk about cost control opportunities to minimize the costs associated with those rigs when they lack the contract visibility or should we continue to model just regular operating cost? For the time being normal operating costs may be slightly reduced.
As we evaluate future opportunities of course if we see these rigs staying stacked for longer periods of time we will reduce crews armor and could cut costs as much as 50% per rig.
Rigs that are short-term stacked that we believe will go to work quickly we will keep the full crews on there and costs actually go up for those rigs because while we're working we don't pay for boats and helicopters.
We don't pay for the fuel but while they're stacked those costs are on our nickel.
So it kind of depends on the circumstances for individual rigs.
Appreciate that.
And then the follow-up question is I liked your characterization of the Ocean Quest theory is opportunistic.
And I'm thinking about the Valiant and the Victory both fourth gen rigs you've got visibility on them after year-end '14.
And I'm curious as they're burning up cash just to keep in service would you consider bidding those fourth gen rigs for jobs that might go -- otherwise go to third gen rigs at opportunistic day rate? And how do you think about the risk of doing that versus operators going to try to use those opportunistic rates in the future to negotiate for lower fourth gen appropriate work? Well I would say that the capital constraints that our operators are facing in 2014 is likely that there will be some additional idle time for those rigs for the remainder of the year.
There will opportunities that come up but in terms of opportunities that we could price to bring forward I just don't know that they're actually there.
So they will be genuine.
We do see visibility of genuine fourth gen opportunities particularly in the second half of the year but there is no third gen type work that you could price and bring forward at this stage.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
A replay will be available on our website shortly.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
My name is Maria and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Diamond Offshore's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ron Woll Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; and Kane Liddelow Vice President of Contracts and Marketing.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I should remind you that statements made during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements which are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results achieved by the company may differ materially from projections made in any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to discussions about future revenues and earnings capital expenditures industry conditions and competition dates the drilling rigs will enter service as well as management's plans and objectives for the future.
A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas in the company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the company's 10-K and 10-Q filings with the SEC.
Given these factors investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflects circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
During last quarter's call I outlined 3 main value drivers.
They will be my focus moving forward.
So as a quick reminder the first of these is investment excellence which is a long-term goal and over the next several quarters we will continue developing our strategy for asset optimization and capital allocation.
The second is commercial excellence which is centered around customer relationships pricing utilization and fleet positioning.
A prerequisite for achieving commercial excellence is of course assembling the right team.
And I'm confident that with the recent appointment of Ron Wall as Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer we are progressing in the right direction.
Ron will have oversight of company marketing and contract acquisition activities and his extensive experience will be an important addition to an already strong marketing team.
And the third is operational excellence whereby we operate safely minimize downtime and maintain discipline in operating expense and SG&amp;A.
So I've been here a full quarter now.
The initial impressions I shared with you on the last call have only been reinforced as I continue to visit our rigs offshore and meet our customers and employees around the world.
Diamond is a proven performer with a solid track record.
That continues to be a lot of market commentary around the edge of our fleet but not enough around the quality.
In Q2 our entire fleet experienced only 53 days of unplanned downtime.
This is the best quarterly reliability figure we have delivered in more than 7 years.
And it is a testament to the hard-working people we have here at Diamond Offshore.
I like to refer to this as the Diamond difference it is tangible and many of our clients understand it.
Let me now turn to the results for the second quarter.
We posted earnings per share of $0.65 which included a few nonrecurring items highlighted in this morning's press release.
2 favorable items were firstly the receipt of a payment from Niko Resources related to our settlement agreement reached last year.
And secondly the sale of the cold stacked jack-up rig the Ocean Spartan.
A nonrecurring item that had a significant negative impact on results for the quarter was the termination of the Ocean Vanguard contract by Statoil.
As its basis the canceling the contract Statoil has claimed that the rig is not in compliance with certain customer-specific technical requirements.
Even though the rig has a long history of successful performance in Norway.
Diamond Offshore believes that our customer had no basis to terminate the relationship under the terms of the contract and we intend to defend the company's best interests in this regard.
We have positioned the Ocean Vanguard at a stat location in the U.K.
and while she is a capable rig we are unlikely to find immediate opportunities given that we did not have sufficient advance notice to market this rig.
In all likelihood we expect the rig to remain idle over the winter season.
But we believe we have opportunities to work it as we move into 2015.
Elsewhere in the North Sea the Ocean Patriot is surely to arrive in the U.K.
after it's upgrade and mobilization from Southeast Asia whereupon it will be ready to begin a 3-year contract working for Shell commencing in Q4.
Last night we announced in the rig status report that we signed the Ocean Princess to a 1 well job at a rate of $230 000 per day which was lower than some were expecting.
Certainly this is an aggressive rate in order to keep the rig working but I would not necessarily view this as a new benchmark day rate.
Given that this contract will extend into the winter months we were comfortable securing an extension with our customer Enquest for some short-term work albeit at a reduced rate.
Additionally we continue to explore opportunities for the Ocean Valiant in the North Sea market including West of Shetlands.
After completing equipment upgrades currently ongoing in the Canary Islands we are optimistic we can put this rig to work during 2015.
You may have noticed the theme here for the North Sea.
After a harsh winter last year in which operators experienced significant downtime while waiting on weather we have seen some reluctance to sign rigs over the upcoming winter months.
The result is that we are seeing an element of seasonality in the North Sea which is pressuring rigs in this market with near-term availability.
The bigger news with respect our fleet is that we have negotiated with our customer Murphy a $550 000 per day contract that enables the Rhino to take outstanding backlog with the added option to convert the contract into a multiyear term at a rate of either $485 000 per day for 3 years or $500 000 for 2.
The backlog was originally with the Ocean Confidence which has recently entered the shipyard to undergo a special survey along with maintenance and equipment upgrades.
By moving the term for the BlackRhino we have pulled revenue forward in 2015 while gaining time to pursue opportunities that are aligned with completion of the upgrades to the Ocean Confidence.
So let me now say a few words regarding Brazil.
We have been in discussions with Petrobras regarding contract extensions on the ultra-deepwater semis the Courage Valor and the Baroness.
We have concluded the pricing negotiations and we are close to being able to announce these.
However we are still waiting final approval from the relevant stakeholder.
And when ready we will announce these contracts accordingly in our Rig Status Report.
Which brings me to the mid-water market in general it is challenging although opportunities for good returns continue to exist.
During Q2 we secured a 3-year term for the Ocean Lexington an SS-2000 rig that is one of the more mature assets in our fleet.
This picture illustrates that well maintained second-generation units can remain marketable.
Mid-water rigs are generally cheaper to operate than the higher spec units and well-maintained units can exhibit less downtime.
On the back of possible oversupply of ultra-deepwater rigs bifurcation of the market will occur as the high generation rigs compete down.
However not all markets require the same technology and good returns can still be generated at a price point below that of the 6 generation assets.
Nonetheless as we focus on capital allocation and asset optimization we will see some of our low end mid-water units retired while we progress through 2015.
This will not be unique to Diamond Offshore but will also happen across the industry.
This should not be news to anyone and is already factored into current valuations.
However mid-water rigs will continue to play an important role in our client's operational portfolios for a while to come.
So stepping up to the offshore semi and drillship market general well we cannot predict where future day rates are headed.
But we feel the market is likely to have oversupply of rigs throughout 2015 and into 2016.
As I mentioned on the last call we have had a warm wind on our backs over the past few years but choppy waters do lie ahead for the short term.
We all understand the challenges facing our clients with regard to their immediate needs to address shareholder returns and reigning expenditures.
We believe these will be short-term drivers and our clients will ultimately have to return to prioritizing production and reserve replacement as project economics benefit from the correction in supply chain costs moving forward.
Geopolitical issues aside any market recovery for offshore drillers will likely be drawn out.
Either way we believe Diamond Offshore's credit rating and balance sheet give us the right tools with which to navigate through this particular ebb in the cycle and uniquely benefit from the opportunities this then presents.
I have some closing remarks but first I will hand the call over to Gary to discuss our results in greater detail.
Thanks Mark.
As always I'll give a little color on this past quarter's results and then cover what's to be expected for the upcoming quarter in the remainder of 2014.
For the quarter just ended we reported after-tax net income of $89.7 million or $0.65 per share based on contract drilling revenues of $650 million.
This is a decrease in EPS from $1.05 in the first quarter which was driven by both the decrease in contract drilling revenues and an increase in contract drilling expenses.
As Mark mentioned revenues were negatively affected by the cancellation of the Ocean Vanguard contract in Norway as the rig recognized only 39 days of revenue during Q2.
Revenues were also negatively impacted by both the delay in the Ocean BlackHawk which reported only 17 days of revenue in Q2 and additional downtime for surveys incurred for the Ocean Yatzy and the Ocean Alliance in quarter.
The Yatzy was down for 41 days as its survey was moved forward into Q2 after being projected to be down in Q3.
Alliance was down 81 days for its survey during the quarter which due to weather and shipyard delays was 30 days longer than anticipated.
Both rigs however completed their surveys during the quarter and were back on contract as Q3 started.
These negative items were partially offset by $15 million proceeds received from Niko Resources related primarily to the cancellation of the Ocean Monarch contract last year.
These proceeds were recorded as contract drilling revenue in the second quarter.
Contract drilling expense increased over last quarter by $26 million to $395 million.
The increase was due primarily to additional survey cost incurred plus normal operating cost to rigs that begin working in Q2 specifically the BlackHawk here in the U.S.
for Anadarko and the Ocean Ambassador which began its 2-year contract for Pemex in Mexico.
While increasing over last quarter Q2's contract drilling expense was below our guidance of $405 million to $425 million.
This favorable variance was primarily due to cost savings from rigs that did not work during the quarter specifically the Ocean Valiant and Monarch.
While these rigs continue to be marketed during the second quarter we successfully instituted measures to reduce cost as much as possible while still keeping the rigs ready to work on short notice.
The delay in recognizing cost on the BlackHawk also contributed to the favorable expense variance.
The remaining favorable variance can best be attributed to our ongoing efforts to control cost which is always after safety remains one of our top priorities.
Turning now to a couple of other line items on the income statement.
Our Q2 results included an $8 million gain on the sale of Ocean Spartan jack-up which has been cold stacked in the Gulf of Mexico since 2010.
Our tax rate for second quarter was 20.3% which was slightly below our guidance from 22% to 25%.
The lower rate resulted from changes to our estimates in the geographies and various foreign tax rates where we earn our pretax income.
As a result of these changes we are now forecasting a tax rate of 20% to 24% for the remaining 2 quarters of 2014.
Now for a look at some of the items that will affect our financial performance in the coming quarter.
As always downtime for surveys and shipyard projects will affect not only revenue numbers but also contract drilling costs.
In Q3 we expect the Ocean Valor and the Ocean Concord to incur downtime and additional cost related to their 5-year surveys.
In addition to foregoing revenue during the shipyard stay these surveys will add approximately $15 million to $20 million to our normal operating expenses.
We have 2 other rigs however which will have their operating expenses capitalized and deferred in the third quarter thereby reducing normally recognized cost.
These rigs were the Ocean Confidence which as previously forecasted will continue in the shipyard undergoing a service life extension and the Ocean Patriot which continues its shipyard upgrade in mobe for its 3-year contract with Shell in the North Sea.
While this accounting treatment reduces normal operating costs for Q3 both of these rigs also have their cost deferred in Q2.
So there'll be no quarter-over-quarter change in expected cost for these 2 rigs.
For the exact number of down days expected in the third quarter and the timing of these projects I will refer you to our Rig Status Report that we filed last night.
Offsetting these decreases in contract drilling expense we have several items which will increase cost in the third quarter.
First will be the operating cost for our new drill ship the Ocean BlackHawk which operated for only the final portion of Q2 but will incur a full quarter's worth of cost in Q3.
The Ocean Endeavor which previously have been deferring operating costs while it's prepared for its 18-month contract in the Black Sea with Exxon began that contract earlier this month and will recognize a full quarter's worth of costs.
The Ocean Clipper has moved to Columbia for a 90-day project with Petrobras and as a result we'll see an uplift in cost which however will be offset by higher day rate as indicated in our Rig Status Report.
The Ocean Monarch has returned to work in Southeast Asia in July for Total after being stacked with reduced cost since late last year.
While all of these increase contracting expense they'll also increase our top line revenue.
And finally we'll also recognize amortized mobilization and contract preparation expense as related to various rigs in our fleet which should total $16 million to $18 million in Q3.
As a result of all these items contract drilling expense should increase to between $410 million and $430 million in the third quarter with cost associated with rigs returning to work being the largest driver for the increase.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line on our income statement contract drilling expenses.
These numbers that I've just given you do not include cost incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Reimbursable expenses as always whatever the amount incurred will be offset almost dollar for dollar with additional reimbursable revenues.
Depreciation expense for Q3 is expected to increase to $110 million to $115 million with full year depreciation expense now expected to be between $445 million and $455 million.
This is a little lower than our previous guidance and is driven primarily by the delivery delays from our drill ships.
Interest expense should be in the $15 million to $20 million range in Q3 and G&amp;A expansion should be in the range of $18 million to $21 million per the quarter for the rest of the year.
And as I previously stated our tax rate for the final 2 quarters of the year is expected to fall between 20% and 24%.
Our capital expenditure guidance again remains unchanged from the last quarter.
For 2014 we expect to incur $285 million of maintenance CapEx and $1.8 billion of new-build CapEx for a total of $2.1 billion.
For 2015 we are still anticipating the capital expenditures to be approximately $800 million primarily made up by the shipyard completion payment on the BlackLion plus maintenance CapEx.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Marc.
Thank you Gary.
So in summary we will continue to focus on the things we can control.
Such as safety the quality of our operations managing costs and the efficient use of our capital.
We firmly believe that Diamond Offshore is best positioned to weather a difficult market.
And with the strongest balance sheet in our industry segment we are looking to opportunistically position the company for growth so when the cycle inevitably turns.
And with that we'll now take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Marc I guess the BlackRhino for the Confidence situation kind of underscores the near-term replacement risk for some of the older ultra-deepwater rigs.
And with that backdrop can you give us some sense for how comfortable you are committing significant shipyard dollars to rig like the Confidence.
And I guess also the Valiant which you said has a decent bidding opportunity West of Shetland but in a way putting -- spending a lot of money on those rigs in the yard is specular capital.
So can you kind of frame the magnitude of that money and sort of what triggers you need to see from demand to spend more than might be outlaid at the beginning of those projects? Yes.
Sure Ian.
Thanks for the question.
Let me address the Murphy and the confidence which for 1 of our ultra-deepwater drillships first.
The -- we saw that as actually a good opportunity in this current market to do a couple of things.
First of all secure work for our third ultra-deepwater drillship.
As you know already the first 2 are already contracted at the rate of around $495 000 a day.
This one pulls over revenue or backlog from the Confidence contract but critically we add to that contract 2 options that were announced in the Rig Report last night.
In other words a 3-year option at just below $500 000 and a 2-year option at around $500 000 exactly.
A couple of things on that I know there's been some commentary overnight that people have been discounting that based on limited knowledge around the mobilization there is a mobilization associated with that.
And I think for the perspective of the models that the analyst run you could probably put a typical mobilization cost in there at around 50% of what we would normally get in that kind of market.
The rig itself probably will end up working in the Gulf of Mexico.
So a couple of things to that we do know that the Gulf of Mexico has lower operating costs than other areas around the world.
And then you can do with your own math around calculating that mobe fee accordingly.
So that's somewhat of a positive.
I also think that getting an extension or options to extend with Murphy is a very positive thing.
Murphy as you all know is a very key client of Diamond Offshore.
We have a very good relationship with them and the intent is to maintain that moving forward.
As it relates to investing capital on the other units the Valiant itself has a great history in the North Sea.
The Valiant is likely to go back up there it can operate West of Shetlands it's a very stable rig in that market it can weather the issues that come on a seasonality basis.
And we're typically looking at an upgrade that covers deck space loading mud pumps et cetera et cetera.
So I don't want to go specifically into the details of how much that specifically will cost us.
Again you can draw your own conclusions.
And the Confidence itself I mean that Confidence is a great rig.
It has performed admirably around the world already.
And we do feel that much that we've felt around the Onyx and the Apex that the upgrade will actually be able us to position at as a better rig moving forward.
Now around the timing of spending capital I just like to put on the table that Diamond has a reputation of being somewhat countercyclical.
We did purchase 2 rigs a number of years ago that operating today in Brazil that when we purchase them at a discount in the market were not immediately put to work.
They were stacked for a while.
And then if you look at it from a long-term perspective the returns from those rigs themselves have more than paid back that investment.
So again I just like perhaps to leave that on the table in suggesting that we will continue to opportunistically invest in our fleet as the time requires and we're looking at this from a long-term perspective.
We're not looking at this on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Research Division</strong> That's good.
Thank you very much for that color Marc.
Just going back to the mobilization on the Rhino did you -- so -- do I understand correctly that the stated day rates on your fleet status are exclusive of in undisclosed mobe fee which you will receive on top of those rates? That is correct.
There's a mobe fee in there already but indeed if we take it to a location that is further away than what the current contract suggests then we have the ability to claw part of that mobilization back.
And I think I already indicated perhaps what would be a good number for you guys to put into your models.
Our next question comes from the line of Klayton Kovac of Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So given the soft floater market will we begin to see more contract structured similarly to the Rhino which trades rate for term? I think that that can happen.
What we're seeing in the market in general is a move to shorter-term contract terms.
The -- If you look back a number of years when obviously the market was under supplied our clients were keen to lock in and obviously take the pain of a high rate over a longer-term not knowing where the market will be.
I think those rates typically or terms were typically 3 to 5 years.
I think now what you're going to see is typical terms 2 to 3 years on those kind of contracts.
And also there will be somewhat of a transactional market that will appear where people contract on a well by well basis and put options on that.
And I think you've seen an example of both of those during -- as we stated in our rig report last night.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then just as a follow-up what characteristics will you look for when deciding whether or not to retire a mid-water rig in 2015? You know that's -- it's -- at this moment in time we would look at stacking rigs on a case-by-case basis if and when of course rigs either get an extension or they do not.
We would look to move a rig to another market such as we are able to do when we put the Lexington to work.
For example on the term contract in Mexico just staying on the Lexington for a minute let's not forget the rigs that this particular SS-2000 went up against.
It went up against a fourth gen rig that was upgraded in 2009.
This is a rig that is a workhorse and perhaps 1 of our more mature assets in the fleet.
But we have taken care of it and it secured work at a dayrate which I think was somewhat of a surprise to the market but still nevertheless provides very good return to our shareholders.
And we won that work.
So it's probably premature at this stage to as we move into 2015 discuss the specifics of which rigs were likely to demobe during the course of the next 12 to 18 months.
But as I said in my prepared statement we're already working on that.
We do have a pretty clear idea as to what will be exiting the fleet moving forward.
I think it will be naive to suggest otherwise.
The market is turning somewhat against us but we're still optimistic that some of those assets that are being modeled out I was going stack by some of the analyst will be able to maintain some element of work moving forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about the Onyx.
As I think about that and I realize it's not a big move down to Trinidad for that 4-month piece of work.
But I guess a couple of questions: 1 is is there a mobe and demobe associated with that with that stated day rate? And then my other question is in thinking about moving the Onyx down to Trinidad is there the opportunity or the expectation for additional work for that rig going forward? In Trinidad? Yes.
In respect to the mobe and demobe we'll be compensated for that on a lump sum basis.
And part of the decision to take that job in Trinidad is that yes we do see work behind it the 1 well that PG has committed to.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just 1 other question for me.
In the press release for the mid-water fleet that there's a note talking about the exclusion of 22 revenue earning days which were not recognized? And can you just provide a little bit of color behind that? In our press release? Research Division</strong> Yes.
There's 22 revenue mid-water days that were excluded because of GAAP.
It's in the bottom of the table Note A.
That may have been associated with the Vanguard we're going to have to look at that.
Our next question comes from Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up a bit on the BlackRhino.
Trying to reconcile everything and system implications.
I know we talked about it you said in your prepared remarks and answered a couple of questions about it.
But just to be clear that taking this contract with Murphy with the BlackRhino the implication there is that there was no other demand for new-build in this timeframe that's my first question.
And the second one the contract with Murphy with the Confidence did that preclude you from marketing the Confidence elsewhere because it was under contractual obligation? It did seem like that one kept on getting pushed to the right a bit.
And I was wondering if this is a way to free up the Confidence to market it? Yes.
Dave thanks for the question there.
So there's nothing that prevents us from marketing the Confidence from now moving forward.
Let me be clear on that.
One of the other things of course we've taken the backlog here over to the Murphy is -- sorry over to the Rhino is we're actually bringing revenues somewhat forward in 2015.
So the confidence is gone into the shipyard in the Canary Isles.
It is likely to come out at towards the end of Q1 beginning of Q2.
And then obviously it's going to be mobed to where it's going to work.
The Rhino comes available before then it is likely to go on contract let's say around mid-Q1.
So we're bringing revenue forward on that as well but otherwise would have been pushed into -- further out into 2015.
So why did we do the switch? Well we've secured the extra backlog of our -- it's not backlog as yet but at least the options on a 2-year or a 3-year term which might have been the case if we just stayed with the Confidence.
The market is tight for ultra-drill -- ultra-deepwater drillships.
Again that's not news to anybody out there.
There's probably less than a handful of real opportunities that exist in the market space right now that enable contracting of rigs where drilling takes place in 2015.
Diamond Offshore is on the short short list for a number of those opportunities whether they are in Asia whether they're in the Gulf of Mexico or whether they're in Latin America.
Everyone knows the competition for example for a particular opportunity with an IOC offshore in Brazil.
It's good that Diamond Offshore gets to the short short list.
It speaks to the Diamond difference that I spoke about earlier.
Now 1 other thing I just bring to the table from a point of caution when people are looking at day rates moving forward in this market space and the commentary that comes around those let's be cognizant of the actual costs associated with operating in different parts of the world and also when it comes to places like Brazil let's also be cognizant of the local content that is required on those contracts.
So if I could just caution or counsel around commentary regarding where day rates are going let's put a little bit more science into interpreting that as it relates to the specific geographies in which we go.
Now having said that there is pressure on day rates and there will continue to be pressure on day rates.
As it relates to this particular space being mid to ultra-deepwater drilling let's not escape the fact that we compete with Shell gas moving forward -- sorry shale moving forward.
And although we've had a boom here in North America and it begs the question "Where would prices have gone if we hadn't have those boom in terms of offshore drilling?" But if we're looking at the energy demand and I'm kind of taking this down apart but it's perhaps not necessarily related to your question.
But I want to point this out.
If we look at the amount of additional competing hydrocarbon supply to the mid to ultra-deepwater space moving forward.
And the let's say the inability of international shale to come aboard.
I mean people are talking about maybe incremental over the next 3 years in terms of hydrocarbon shale of around 0.5 million barrels of oil per day coming from Canada Russia or Argentina.
But if you wind this out over the next few years the incremental energy demand has to come from mid to deep oil supply has to come from mid to ultra-deepwater space.
So we do see this as somewhat of a short-term ebb in the cycle.
And if you suppose our energy demand is going up by let's say 1 million -- just over 1 million barrels of oil per day much of that supply over the next few years is actually going to have to come from this space.
As the economics change as pricing normalizes and this is why I'm talking about this we will see projects that have been pushed over the horizon come back into -- come back onto the horizon.
I spoke about the block 32 deal in Angola that has now come back over the horizon another project that people are now beginning to talk about of course is in the West of Australia The Enquest project out there people are now talking about that one coming back over the horizon.
So we are going to see a floor in pricing in the next let's say 12 to 18 months materialize the big question is is what is that floor going to be and I -- we don't have that at this moment in time.
And then from there we should see as the supply of units gets taken up we should then possibly see a recovery at some state.
I spoke about new shakedown recovery in the past and our own opinions around that have not changed.
Our next question comes from the line of David Smith of Heikkinen Energy.
I wanted to ask if deepwater supply continues to outgrow demand do the conventionally more deepwater units have an advantage because they have the option to pursue work in mid-water depths where operators would want to avoid working the dynamic reposition rigs.
Well again a good question.
The deepwater -- sorry the mid-water space isn't going to go away.
I mean if you could Brazil for example we've done a lot of work modeling where Brazil is going for obvious reasons Brazil is an important market for us.
The -- if you look at the ultra-deepwater space in Brazil yes sure it's going to triple over the next 5 years.
You're going to be up around 44 ultra-deepwater units serving that market.
The mid-water space itself is not crashing and won't disappear it would still exist.
And if you look at perhaps the North Sea if you look at other places around the world Mexico et cetera et cetera it is cheaper to run a MODU unit than a DP unit.
So that space is going to exist moving forward.
I don't question the reliability of the mid-water space at all.
I was wondering if the -- given the tolerance to new application for DP units as you start to go onto shallower depths.
That presents an opportunity where you have an excess of deepwater supply overall.
If there's MODU units there's fortune rigs and then some higher spec MODU units would have the option of rather than being idle for long of time taking mid-water jobs until the deep water demand starts to grow.
Yes that will happen.
There will be some competing down from the 6.5 6 generation rigs into the 5 and the 4 spaces.
That is going to happen.
And I just like to refer to a comment that I put earlier on the table here.
Yes some of the let's say more mature assets in the fleet will have to be looked at and that's something -- we will make the hard decisions around that.
So in other words yes an element of that will take place.
How much? It's hard to say at this moment in time.
And a direct follow-up on that I noticed that the 5-year survey downtime for the Yatzy was removed from the last week stats report.
I was just hoping to ask what that survey cost was budgeted at and whether that survey was being postponed until the contract is secured or if we should take that as a signal towards your retirement comments? No that -- just because of timing of wells we move that survey forward into Q2.
And so that's been done yes we're projecting premobe [ph] to a cost about $5 million was actually a fairly one of our lesser amount surveys.
Our next question comes from the line of Anders Bergland of Platou Markets.
Research Division</strong> Could you say something about the demand side in the ultra-deepwater space is it more or less activity today than we saw last quarter? Are there any private contracts out there at all or are we going into entering some kind of a desert walk for the next 6 months before we see a market pick up again in first half of '16? Yes Anders good morning thank you for that question.
The -- There's a little bit more churn around -- or noise around contracting opportunities but if we say there was nothing in Q1 there's slightly more than that today but it's certainly not what we've seen in the past years.
And that goes back to my commentary around many of our clients have a sophisticated supply chain they know what's going on in the market.
And by deferring opportunities in a market where the suggestion is pricing may continue to fall with the arrival of well my 50 drillships between now and the end of next year.
Many of them are holding back and there is a bottleneck of opportunities but at some stage that will have to be uncorked and we'll see opportunities move forward.
And in my prepared comments I suggested that yes sure we understand that many of the clients are having to look at return of well shareholder returns right now but we don't think that that's sustainable in any sense of the imagination.
And as pricing comes down these projects will come back on the horizon.
Let me give some color around this.
Let's take a project in Latin America or offshore I see [ph] goes in there let's say around 60% of the installed well cost makes up the project cost.
So on the drillship it may be then equivalent to 30% of the total project cost.
As we see rates coming down from $600 000 to the suggestion is $450 000 then what kind of impact does that make on the total project economics? And I would suggest that it is material.
So at some stage in the near future the slack the slack that's in the market will be taken up the question is when.
And I perhaps can't further comment on that than to suggest that it's probably going to be 2015 before we see a material change -- the beginning of 2015 before we see a material change in contracting opportunities for what's coming to the market.
But as I mentioned earlier we have board assets in the past opportunistically that we have not put straight away to work.
But when the opportunities come and the market changes we have been very successful in returning shareholder value through those investments.
And as we see the market kind of going through this ebb in the cycle we look at that countercyclically and we say that that provides opportunities for companies that are positioned like us and there's not too many that are positioned like us as we go into this cycle.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on that note would you be looking at the harsh environment kind of units or would you prefer benign environment kind of units? Well harsh environment is generally spoken about more typically in the jack-up space.
But I know what you're talking about the Arctic or other places like that.
So you could argue that we've got another investment you could call it a harsh environment semi that we're building for BP that's going to work in the Barents Sea offshore Australia.
And the -- so that is a harsh environment semi if that's what you -- if that's what we want to label that rig as.
But -- sorry it's the Bight not the Barents Sea offshore Australia.
But we will look at assets on a case-by-case basis moving forward.
We put in place the opportunity to bring to the market 5 effective new builds during the course of 2014 we've got another 1 coming in January 2015 which are high spec units.
In terms of harsh environment are we likely to go after the Arctic? It depends on the opportunity.
And I think you're very familiar with our investment strategies in the past and we are optimistic moving forward that at some stage in the near future we might be able to repeat those kind of cycles or the strategy that those -- the cycle we're moving into presents itself.
So I can't necessarily say at this stage that we will target harsh environment at the expense of other opportunities.
It's more of a case of what truly makes sense from a capital investment perspective and how then that translate to maximizing our shareholder returns.
Our next question comes from the line of Harry Mateer of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can just walk us through any updated expectations you have for your liquidity and balance sheet management during the last couple of quarters.
In particular I know you have a maturity coming up in September of about $250 million.
I think your intention previously was to pay that down you certainty do have plenty of cash on the balance sheet but in light of market conditions are you thinking about maybe preserving that cash liquidity and refinance the matter putting that on your revolver or is your intention still to pay that down? We have that payment coming up at 1st of September as you said.
And you're also correct we have a lot of options we have right at $1.3 billion worth of cash on the balance sheet along with our $1 billion worth of revolver.
At the same time we have a number of payments coming up on the last 3 drillships.
We're going to keep our options open we raised an additional $1 billion last fall and it will -- we'll keep our options open.
Interest rates continue to remain low but we have a lot of cash available.
So a lot will also depend on opportunities as Marc has been talking about that come up in the future as to what we did.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful and then just in terms of liquidity I mean what's -- how much cash plus marketable securities do you like to keep on the balance sheet? I mean is this the right level? Do we have a running the business with a lower amount? We certainly could run the business with quite a bit lower amount.
We've always kept a large amount on the balance sheet not as much as we have now.
But again as I said we've got a lot of payments coming up.
We have as I pointed out in my opening remarks $2.1 billion worth of CapEx this year of which a lot of it is yet to be spent in the second half.
So we will certainly run that cash balance down much lower but we've always remained a conservative have been a conservative company.
We will be we want to be able to take advantage of opportunities as they come up.
That's what we've done for the past 25 years and we'll continue to do so.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one final question.
Our final question will come from the line of J.B.
Lowe of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know you that we kind of touched on this earlier but I just had a question on Brazil and specifically the mid-water market there and what you guys are seeing as potential to keep some of your older mid-water units down there.
I know that Petrobras has been releasing some older mid-water units recently I just wanted to see what your thoughts were on what their preferences going forward and what kind of opportunities you're seeing there? And if not Petrobras then other opportunities in Brazil? Yes.
There's -- I think it's if I recall correctly 111 blocks that are going to companies outside of Petrobras in Brazil right now.
There's going to be opportunities with Total BG BP BHP Premier and those are just a number of the international companies never mind local outfits that have blocks down there.
So this just isn't a Petrobras story in Brazil and it's something that we're looking at very very closely.
On the mid-water side the majority of their production comes from mid-water today.
And that space is going to need maintenance it's going to need further drilling.
But once again it's -- it is a tough market down there.
And there's a number of local players that we have to compete with.
But Brasdril which is our entity down there has been there for 43 years.
We know the market we've got a high local content we are very well-respected by the players that are down there not least the Senior Executives of Petrobras itself.
And there's no reason to assume otherwise that Brasdril will have a great future in Brazil for the next 43 years as well.
Having said that it is a tight market and Petrobras is short of cash and the ISC's are not ready at this moment in time to start drilling to start turning to the right if that's the correct term.
That will happen over the next year to 18 months.
And really that gets back to the commentary around yes we are going into a period of uncertainty.
It's -- we're not at the bottom of the cycle just generally in our space by any sense of the imagination but this is a cyclical business and we understand it and we've been there before we know how to manage through it and we know how to come out of it better than we went into it.
So that's general commentary around Brazil but really also applies elsewhere in the world too.
Okay.
Well folks thanks very much for your -- being online today and we will visit the next quarterly call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Diamond Offshore Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Diamond Offshore's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Woll Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I remind you that information reported on this call speak only as of today and therefore you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay of this call.
In addition certain statements made during this call may constitute statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Such statements are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors many of which are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied in these statements.
These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by the company from time to time in our filings with the SEC including our annual report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Furthermore as we start this call please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued earlier today and please note that the contents of our call today are covered by that disclosure.
And now I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
Let me begin by elaborating on the contract awards that we announced earlier this morning as of course these awards have added significant backlog in what we see as a challenging market.
Starting with that Hess award.
Our remaining newbuild drillships the Ocean BlackRhino and the Ocean BlackLion are now contracted to go to work in the Gulf of Mexico on the Hess Stampede project.
The BlackLion will begin a 4-year contract in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the BlackRhino will commence a 3-year term in Q4 of 2016 after completing its work for Murphy the rig's launch customer.
This award alone represents over $1 billion of additional revenue backlog.
As you know the first 2 of our 4 new drillships the Ocean BlackHawk and the Ocean BlackHornet are each contracted with Anadarko on 5-year terms also in the Gulf of Mexico.
They will be particularly advantageous for us to have all 4 of these units working in the same region right here in our backyard.
The Gulf of Mexico can be characterized as one of the lowest-cost markets in the world and we are positioned to gain even further scale efficiencies by having our personnels spare parts support infrastructure for the drillships centrally located here on the Gulf Coast.
Most importantly we look forward to continuing our long-standing partnership with our customer Hess on what is clearly a major investment for them.
The competition for this work was very intense.
And this award is a vote of confidence in the people and the assets of Diamond Offshore.
Additionally we are able to announce that contract extensions with Petrobras have been finalized with a Ocean Courage the Ocean Valor and the Ocean Baroness adding 3 years of term for each rig at pricing that is higher than the legacy contracts.
These are very solid fixtures totaling a further $1.4 billion of revenue backlog.
So when combined these 2 awards increase Diamond Offshore's backlog by $2.4 billion from when I last spoke to you.
Staying with Brazil and consistent with its stated objective to focus on ultra deepwater Petrobras has elected not to extend contracts on the mid-water rigs the Ocean Yatzy and the Ocean Winter and we have agreed to terminate the Ocean Concorde contract which had 8 months of term remaining.
Margin from the Concorde will instead be recovered through a day rate uplift on the Ocean Courage.
As I indicated in our prior earnings call we will not shy away from making the hard decisions.
Because we do not believe these 3 mid-water rigs will have opportunities to continue working we have made the decision to retire and sell them for scrap along with 3 cold stacked units the Epoch New Era and the Whittington.
Together these 6 rigs which we are removing from the market have an average age of 37 years.
The decision to retire these units involve several factors.
For the 3 rigs rolling off contracts with Petrobras there would have been large mobilization costs associated with taking them out of Brazil and we were not willing to incur this expense when jobs are unlikely to become available in other regions.
Additionally the 3 cold stacked rigs were known to require extensive capital upgrades and given the market outlook investing capital in these units would not have been in the best interest of our shareholders.
As I said before not all markets require the same technologies and good returns can still be delivered by assets other than those that are recently new out of the shipyards.
Competitively priced mid-water rigs can continue to play a role in our client's operational portfolios for years to come albeit with a decreasing share of the market.
Across our industry we continue to expect that some of the higher-generation rigs will compete down.
And as we progress through 2015 we expect to see more low-end mid-water units retired across our industry.
So let me now turn to the results for the third quarter.
While we did have some noise in the results which produced earnings per share of $0.38 this includes an after-tax noncash impairment charge of $0.84 resulting from the retirement of the 6 rigs I've just mentioned.
Also results for the quarter benefited by $0.26 resulting from the settlement of various tax issues.
I will now hand the call over to Gary to give further color on this and our Q3 numbers in general and then I will make some closing remarks.
Gary? Thanks Marc.
As always I will give a little color on this past quarter's results and then cover what's to be expected for the upcoming quarter.
For the quarter just ending -- ended we reported after-tax net income of $53 million or $0.38 per share which was based on contract drilling revenues of $728 million.
This decrease in EPS from $0.65 from the previous quarter despite revenues increasing over $78 million quarter-over-quarter.
Obviously the impairment write-down associated with retiring 6 mid-water rigs was the main cause for the decline in EPS despite the rising revenues but I'll address that in a moment.
Looking at the revenue increase quarter-over-quarter.
The current quarter saw 2 rigs that were previously idle return to work: Ocean Monarch for Total in Southeast Asia and the Ocean Endeavor which began its 18-month contract with Exxon in the Black Sea.
Also adding to the revenues was first our newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackHawk which worked for a full quarter in Q3; and second the decrease in survey downtime compared to Q2.
These revenue increases were offset by several of our mid-water semis which contracts ended in Q3 and which have not been able to find follow-on work.
Contract drilling expense was essentially flat quarter-over-quarter coming in at $400 million which was less than our guidance of $410 million to $430 million.
The decision to scrap Ocean Concorde and not spend $8 million to $10 million on its 5-year survey was the primary reason for coming in under the low end of our guidance range.
The remaining variable [ph] variance compared to the midpoint of our guidance can best be attributed to ongoing efforts to control cost which as always after safety remains one of our top priorities.
As Marc said in his opening comments the decision to retire and scrap 6 mid-water semis required a $109 million impairment charge in the third quarter.
Because this write-down was associated with rigs residing in our international tax structure no tax benefit was reported as a result of the write-down.
Actually due to a deferred tax asset that was associated with one of the rigs involved in the write-down we booked an associated tax expense for the write-down.
The net result was an after-tax reduction in earnings of $0.84 per share.
As reported in our press release we did report tax benefits in the quarter as a result of conclusion of tax audits related to prior years in Brazil and Malaysia and we reversed prior year tax accruals due to the statute of limitations expiring in several countries.
Offsetting these benefits were additional taxes recorded for the change in U.K.
tax laws which were passed in the third quarter but were retroactive to April 1 of this year.
Normal changes to our estimates in geographies and in various foreign tax rates where we earn our pretax income also negatively impacted the amount of tax expense we reported for the quarter.
We're taking all these pluses and minuses into account.
Our tax rate ended up above guidance at 35.5%.
Because of the accounting rules associated with taxes some of these items will also impact our Q4 tax rate which we project to be -- will be in the 29% to 32% range.
Now for a look at some of the items that will affect our financial performance in the coming quarter.
As always downtime for surveys and shipyard projects will affect not only revenue numbers but also contract drilling costs.
In Q4 we expect to incur downtime for surveys for only the jackups Ocean King and Ocean Summit.
These are intermediate surveys so they should take approximately 12 days each with only a nominal cost above and beyond normal rig operating cost.
The Ocean Confidence continues its previously forecasted service life extension shipyard stay through the fourth quarter which means these operating expenses will be capitalized and deferred thereby reducing normally recognized cost.
This rig also had its cost deferred in Q3 so there'll be no quarter-over-quarter change in recorded cost for the Confidence.
For the exact number of down days expected in Q4 and the timing of these projects and other downtime items I have not mentioned here I will refer you to our rig status report that we filed this morning.
We expect rig operating cost as reported in the line contract drilling expense to be approximately the same as our cost in Q3.
On one hand rig cost will decrease as a result of our efforts to reduce cost on various rigs that have recently gone stacked or being retired as we have announced.
Offsetting this the Ocean Patriot returns to work and will begin recognizing operating cost in Q4 cost which in previous quarters have been capitalized as part of the North Sea upgrade.
In addition we will incur costs to move [ph] the Ocean Star back to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico from Brazil.
And finally we'll also recognize amortized mobilization and contract preparation expenses related to various rigs in our fleet which should total $14 million to $16 million in Q4.
As a result of all these items we are estimating our contract drilling expense for the fourth quarter to be between $390 million and $410 million.
This should bring full year contract drilling expense to $1.6 billion which is below our original guidance of $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line on our income statement contract drilling expenses.
These numbers that I've just given to you do not include cost incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Reimbursable expenses as always whatever the amount incurred will be offset almost dollar for dollar with additional reimbursable revenues.
With regard to other items on the income statement we're forecasting depreciation for Q4 to increase to $120 million.
This increase is driven by the expected delivery and associated depreciation for the Ocean BlackHornet Ocean BlackLion and Ocean Apex along with increased depreciation on the Ocean Winner.
Because the Ocean Winner is still under contract with Petrobras until early 2015 it was written down as part of our impairment charge this quarter to the discounted future cash flows of the rig which is now being depreciated over the remaining life of its contract.
Interest expense should be in the $15 million to $18 million range in Q4 and G&amp;A continue to be between $18 million and $21 million.
As I previously stated our tax rate for the final quarter of this year is expected to be between 29% and 32%.
But we do expect that rate to fall back into the mid-20s in 2015.
I'll give more color on that in our next earnings conference call.
Our capital expenditure guidance again remains virtually unchanged from last quarter.
For the year 2014 we expect to incur $260 million of maintenance CapEx and $1.8 billion of newbuild CapEx for a total of $2.1 billion.
For 2015 we are still anticipating the capital expenditures to be approximately $80 million primarily made up of the shipyard completion payment on the BlackLion plus maintenance CapEx.
And finally from a financial and liquidity standpoint yesterday we successfully increased our credit facility from $1 billion to $1.5 billion.
And Marc will expand upon that in just a moment.
We also paid $250 million to bondholders as a result of our 5% 10-year debt issued back in 2004 maturing during the third quarter.
And with that I'll turn it back to Marc.
Thank you Gary.
So allow me to provide additional commentary on the offshore drilling space.
There's been no change to our assessment that the market is likely to have a significant oversupply of rigs throughout 2015 and well into 2016.
The market recovery will likely be drawn out.
However we are a cyclical business.
I have no doubt that eventually market factors will balance and our clients will have to return to prioritizing production and reserve replacement benefiting from the current decline in supply chain costs.
We've positioned ourselves with a revenue backlog totaling $8.2 billion.
This is an increase in backlog of over 40% following the contracts announced this morning.
And most importantly all of our newbuild units for drillships and the harsh environment semi-submersible are now contracted at good returns with Tier 1 clients well into 2019 and beyond.
Before we move to the Q&amp;A session allow me to elaborate on Gary's remarks around the increase in our revolving credit facility to $1.5 billion with an extended term of 5 years.
This action increases the flexibility of our already strong balance sheet so that we are well positioned to further enhance the fleet beyond that which we have already undertaken.
Recall that we have retained our A-grade credit rating while investing over $5 billion in new assets and fleet upgrades during the past several years.
Capital allocation is important to us.
In that context the opportunity to renew our fleet by using our balance sheet to buy assets will be a focus moving forward especially as the current downturn could put further stress on our industry and provide opportunity.
We will continue to look for ways to reposition the company for the inevitable change in this current cycle.
And with that we will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if I could seek clarifications on the precise day rates with Hess because you've given the total contract value.
Does that number include any consideration for mobilization on the second rig or any other capital upgrade enhancements that we need to think about when they're still in the day rate? Yes.
Thank you Ian.
Let me just be clear around the day rate here because obviously this is considered to be by some a new low in the market.
We don't see it that way.
I run this business from a cash flow perspective not a headline market rate perspective.
You're correct.
There's no mobilization on the second unit.
So out of the 4 units that we've now got in the Gulf of Mexico 3 of them did have mobilization this one didn't.
But I do believe that in terms of the contribution to the company that -- and from a scale economy perspective we more than recovered the mobilization there.
I'll talk about this $400 000 day rate just for a minute.
I don't believe it's a new low in terms of pricing these assets at least from a cash flow perspective.
Let's first remember that we do have the fourth- sixth-gen drillships working in our backyard at rates that do provide a solid return on capital.
Scale economies are substantial as it relates to personnel inventory logistics support infrastructure and so on.
So however one chooses to slice and dice this opportunity it brings to us so much more than the headline rate where that first indicate.
You will -- this is important.
You will recall from our last call that I had pointed out that we were not able to quantify all pricing as being the same and comparable across geographies.
So somewhat in this context we know that the cost of operating an asset let's say West Africa or Brazil for that matter are substantially higher than operating in the Gulf of Mexico.
So once again from a cash flow perspective I would suggest that this is actually not the lowest fixture we've already seen this year.
And there's one example out there being a sixth-generation drillship in Brazil contracted over the summer that is more than likely to provide less cash flow than we received on these awards here.
So that's basically it in -- from a day rate perspective.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough for me.
And then I just -- my follow-up I just wanted to touch on a few of your rigs that are open now or soon.
The Confidence finishing its shipyard early next quarter and then also the Valiant which is also idle and then you got I guess a couple of your rigs in Asia Pac the Quest in the America rolling next May.
So out of those 4 rigs which I think are your next sort of 4 deepwater rigs with some availability are there any stacking candidates? Do you think there's demand in the market to keep 4 out of 4 of those rigs working or how do you assess that today? Ian good morning.
This is Ron Woll.
Thanks for the question.
Let's talk a few of those rigs.
The Confidence her upgrades are coming along quite nicely.
New crew quarters new deck cranes refurbishments of type [ph] handling and well control.
And we're having a number of conversation with customers about her availability and are very optimistic about her role in our 2015 fleet.
So although I won't get into specific conversations but suffice it to say that the pipeline there I think is a relatively positive.
So I think we're optimistic on the Confidence.
You mentioned the Valiant as the second rig there.
Our decision to proceed with [ph] her U.K.
I think safety case has proven to be a good choice.
We do have significant customer conversations underway.
I am very optimistic she will work in 2015 but candidly Ian probably not in the first quarter.
I think you've got to look at little bit past the first quarter for her to get some traction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your rollovers in Vietnam and Australia? Yes.
If you look east there we're -- we do like the work that the Quest is doing in Vietnam.
She has a good reputation based on our performance.
We continue to have I think some good inquiries from customers nothing I think I want to report in this conversation but good traction.
I think that stands in contrast where you've made a hard decision to sideline some of the older rigs like the General that just really don't have that traction.
We don't really put the Quest or the America of course which the America is doing good work in Australia and again generating good conversations.
So those stand I think apart from the ones we decided to sideline like the Saratoga and the General.
Our next question comes from Gregory Lewis of the Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Marc I'm sure you're breathing a nice sigh of relief with all of these contracts.
I guess what I would say is with your newbuild fleet now in place clearly you can start focusing on what Diamond does sort of in its -- in going forward.
And just in thinking about that congratulations on extending the credit facility.
I mean at what point does it make sense for Diamond as we move through this down cycle to start trying to build up a cash war chest so that eventually the company can start to go after incremental new rigs? Thanks very much Greg.
The -- I mean that is a good question.
As you know we have an A-grade credit rating we've got a healthy balance sheet and as you rightly point out all of our newbuild assets are now contracted through 2019 and beyond at good returns.
Specifically we don't give future guidance as it relates to capital allocation but let me say this.
It goes without saying that driving capital efficiency is our senior management team's most fundamental responsibility here at Diamond.
And in this regard we regularly review our options with a goal of building long-term value per share.
We've got many levers that we could pull depending on the opportunity and all options remain on the table.
In my opening remarks I mentioned that we have increased our revolver to $1.5 billion as you point out and we are considering our strategic options with respect to the forward allocation of capital.
With that said one of the options is of course to build this war chest so that we can go and take advantage as opportunities materialize to renew the fleet.
So we've got a let's say a warrant that is already in place and we are looking for those opportunities as perhaps they materialize.
So with that said we'll see how the market kind of progresses over the next 12 to 18 months and see what opportunities materialize.
But we're really at the beginning of those stages.
And we do hope as I mentioned in my prepared statement that as the cycle turns the company will look somewhat different than it currently does today.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just -- my other question is on -- clearly you identify the 6 rigs that are going to be I guess scrapped was mentioned in the press release 3 of those rigs were already called stacked 2 came off 1 is currently still on work.
I guess my question is I'm just trying to understand.
What made those the 6 vessels -- well obviously the 3 that were stacked -- what made the 3 -- the 2 current -- more recently working in Brazil and then the final 1 that's working? What made those the scrap candidates? Just because as I look at the fleet that there are some other rigs in -- spread in and around the globe that I would argue have very similar characteristics to the 6 that were actually chosen to be stacked -- or scrapped.
Well yes Greg.
Yes and no is the answer to what your last sentence suggested there.
The -- again we looked at it from a shareholder perspective.
For the ones that we are scrapping right now was it worth the capital investment the mobilization cost to take them into another market and this current market that we're looking at from a global basis.
And every quarter we look at our entire fleet and determine whether we should impair assets.
Probably right now we do not expect to have to write down more assets in the near future but obviously we've not done the next quarter review.
The -- probably the specific treatment of the Winner should give you an indication of our current thinking.
However that should not imply we will not have to write down assets at some stage again.
With what I know today I would be surprised if we have to do it again in the next few quarters.
But I guess back to the first question that you asked how are we repositioning Diamond right now so that when we come out of this downturn we are much in a more appropriate position to provide long-term shareholder value moving forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Klayton Kovac of Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So first question on the cost synergies for the Gulf of Mexico drillships could you quantify these synergies or at least provide us with daily operating costs? Operating cost should be -- this is Gary Klay -- somewhere in that $175 000 a day range give or take.
We'll also have some amortized mobe in there that will drive the actual reported cost a little bit higher than that.
But as far as the synergies we have -- by having all 4 rigs here in the Gulf of Mexico we're -- we will be able to instead of buying separate spares for each one of them we can buy 1 or 2 spares.
All of them can share that.
They can share equipment.
And this -- the number of the people the training of people they have in moving people back and forth and so that means a lot to us.
The -- if we compare the cost that we look at had we taken these rigs some place else say Brazil which the cost would've been $50 000 a day more which again as Marc pointed out we're very happy with the day rate we got and the returns that we'll get on these rigs.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Then a follow-up question just further on the cost structure how should we think about the scrapping of the 6 mid-water semis given 3-year stack 2 idle 1 working? As far as cost going forward? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Certainly.
Well first of all the Winner continues working until February or March of next year so that won't have any impact on the cost.
The Yatzy and the Concorde we are demanning those rigs as we speak and so those costs will come down.
And as I have said in my prepared costs we will have cost decrease for those.
The 3 cold stacked rigs will have no -- virtually no impact.
So yes cost will come down some in the fourth quarter more in the first quarter of next year but offset by some of the things I talked about earlier.
Let me add one other thing I was passed a note.
Just to clarify in my prepared comments I said CapEx -- well capital expenditures in 2015 I said $80 million.
I of course meant $800 million just for anybody that has that question.
Our next question comes from the line of Praveen Narra of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
If we could talk about the prospects for the Worker Alliance and the Clipper that it received extensions yet.
So if you could talk about where you see those in terms of opportunities and as part of the fleet.
Sure yes.
This is Ron.
Thanks for that question.
Of course the Worker will exit Brazil after her work that concludes in Q1.
There's no doubt she is going to face I think some strong mid-water competition.
There's no way around that fact.
We do though plan to move her out of Brazil and do see here in our future.
I think with her and other rigs as well the faster contracting cycles play in which give us I think less visibility on how far out her next jobs will get served up.
But we do see her moving forward without a doubt.
The Alliance she's good in Brazil.
They're out through middle of '16.
So we're pretty focused on her on operating productively and safely but still looks favorably on her.
But I think there is a driving force here with regard to -- operators can show up in the market with a relatively a short lead time and get the rigs that they want.
And so in contrast perhaps to some previous periods the visibility on where they will work probably has a shorter horizon now than it has previously.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and just in terms of choosing to scrap the 6 rigs and this might just be optics but could you discuss decision not to spend time to pursue a different sale to a different purpose market? Or I guess I suppose is that your view of the secondary market for older rigs as a whole? These rigs will be taken out of the market.
They will be -- we've got a number of entities that we're talking to right now but they will be sold for scrap and removed from the market.
Our next question comes from Lukas Daul of ABG.
I was wondering on the Petrobras contracts if you could say something about the MPD capabilities of those rigs.
Are you adding a managed pressure drilling kit? And is that included in the day rate? Or are you somehow being compensated for that? The Courage is not.
The Baroness and the Courage...
Valor.
Sorry the Valor are MPD.
The Courage is not MPD.
That's already -- they're already in -- they're already positioned that way.
Okay okay.
So they already have the kit? That's correct.
And then I was wondering not getting any mobe fee on the fourth newbuild one getting into the U.S.
Gulf is that a feature that you are maybe observing on more tenders at the moment that -- or companies who are holding back on paying the mobe fee? Not necessarily.
We contracted the Rhino and got a mobe fee for that albeit not traditionally at where the market rate has been in the past.
But let's not misunderstand the competition the was out there for this Hess contract.
There were 32 rigs bidding for this.
It was very very competitive.
We've already spoken at length about the scale economies we see by having all 4 of our drillships working here in our own backyard in the Gulf of Mexico.
We've already spoken about how the costs for running these drillships let's say in Brazil is at least $50 000 possibly more per day more expensive.
So when we looked at this from a strategic perspective yes it was something that we had to give away in order to meet the objective of getting all of our newbuild drillships working within what is likely to be a 150-mile radius offshore of the Gulf of Mexico here.
So at the end of the day you put all this into a big melting pot and then look at it from a cash flow perspective.
And frankly speaking in this market today we were very very comfortable with the rate the overall package the overall cash flow that we're generating from these assets moving forward for the next 4 to 5 years.
Some people suggest where is the -- where's the headline day rate going from an ultra-deepwater sixth generation perspective? And from that aspect I can tell you where the bottom is for Diamond Offshore.
It's $400 000 per day.
The -- obviously the number is different for the other 32 or so drillships but they're yet to be delivered and yet to secure work.
But let's not underestimate the benefit of these contracts without even the mobilization fee coming into consideration for the shareholders of this company.
All right.
That's a very good color.
And finally can you say something about the future of outlook for Princess in the U.K.? Yes.
Thanks for the question.
This is Ron here.
There's no doubt that the oversupply of rigs and somewhat I think modest activity levels and the operators suggest that she's going to see some idle time in 2015.
So I think that we will continue to market her and are optimistic on her outlook.
But for modeling purposes I think our utilization will be -- will trend lower at least in the early part of '15.
Our next question comes from Tom Curran of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Given how you described the outlook for the floating drilling rig market where I think your language got more severe both in terms of the nature and duration of the downturn you now see.
Given that could you provide us with an update on what the feeling would be for you leverage-wise until the cycle turns and which metrics you'll be focusing on for how high you will be willing to take leverage? Yes the -- it depends on the opportunity.
We've always been self-funding.
We haven't gone through our controlling entity to increase leverage.
There are a number of opportunities out there that we could execute on without having to take leverage up significantly.
I think you're very familiar with how this company has been run in the past.
It's been somewhat conservative but then that gives us our current credit rating which is an A-grade.
The -- and the healthy balance sheet that we have as well.
So I'm not specifically going to tip my hand right now and say "Okay this is going to be the size of the war chest and this is the kind of leverage that we're going to have moving forward." Suffice to perhaps say that maintaining an investment-grade rating for us is important.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you continue to have conversations with customers especially in the Gulf of Mexico have any signaled to you a threshold for leading-edge rates at which should it hit it? They would definitely be willing to take a specific rig or move forward with the program? Are there levels that you're focusing on that if pricing gets there you would see the demand response? Tom absolutely yes.
The -- there's undoubtedly a lot of assets which are competing down and that will continue.
But obviously there's -- well one would have to think that there is a price drop [ph] with certain assets -- become uneconomic from a -- if we're looking at the sixth- and fifth-generation rigs competing down.
Pricing is moving down.
I mean we know that.
But some of the older-generation assets will find their niche application from a price perspective again.
And to your point we are in discussions with a particular client here in the Gulf of Mexico for example for mid-water work where project economics dictate that newer-generation fleet is simply too expensive.
So we're going through our own fleet and seeing what kind of asset and what kind of return what kind of cash flow that is still in the interest of our shareholders dictates that we can go and get that work.
So the business development the business acquisition the marketing cycle is very very different to what we've seen over the past few years and that requires a new approach.
So absolutely yes we are talking with clients looking at their project economics when they share them with us and then through [ph] in and out from perhaps the other end of the eyeglass to what typically we did in terms of contracting assets in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one for me.
Could you just give us an update on what the deal pipeline looks like? What kind of prospects are out there at the moment ranging from individual attractive assets all the way up to potential corporate acquisitions? Well I'm not going to address potential corporate acquisitions.
That's -- no I'll just leave it at that.
But from specific assets I'll pass it over to Ron.
Sure yes.
This is Ron.
Ron here.
From a pipeline standpoint I think there's a couple of themes that we see.
I think there certainly is a spreading out of opportunities on the high end of the scale.
So you look at that what sixth-gen opportunities are out there.
We've had a lot as you well know of tenders get sidelined delayed or canceled.
You look at Noble in the Mediterranean Total in Brazil Chevron Indonesia.
So we've seen a real I think a draining of the pond of opportunities for where high-end ships may go.
And so that -- for that reason we're -- of course we're quite glad to have Hess with us.
If you look further down in the pipeline there are some nice mid-water tenders out there that we look forward to competing in.
But I think as a general theme what we're finding in is that operators have sublets that they can play in in addition to new work they can put out.
And so we're finding I think shorter contracting cycles as I mentioned a few questions ago so operators really can go to market pretty quick and get what they want virtually on-demand.
So there's no doubt about it.
It's oversupplied in tough market but we continue to have I think very productive conversation with customers in virtually all markets.
So there's work out there.
It will just take I think more effort to earn those wins.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I was actually speaking to the pipeline for potential asset acquisitions.
What you're seeing it shopped around out there that you might actually consider picking off? Yes.
Just going back to my initial statement there Tom it's early days.
I think the market will continue to be challenging moving forward.
As we look at the market itself this downturn is likely to be protracted.
And given the lead time between RFQs and the start of drilling we are at some distance from seeing any green shoots.
There's a large number of drillships still to be delivered a high amount of sublet availability.
There's not much commentary around that but there is high amount of sublet availability.
And we've got a client base that is CapEx adverse at present.
So I think that we're watching the oil price it was interesting to note today that I think Saudi has started to cut back production.
But this downturn is going to be U-shaped.
Are we at the bottom of the U? I don't think so yet.
When it does turn around I think there'll be a sharp recovery.
But it's hard to predict when that timing materializes.
It's very hard to predict.
So we've got a list of potential things we can do probably more on the asset on the individual asset basis at this point in time.
But I think that the opportunity or the window is going to fall -- perhaps going into the market and picking up assets is going to be better for us in a number of courses out rather than doing it right now.
So we're watching the market very closely.
And I'm not going to give you -- tip of my hand as I suggested earlier on what we're specifically looking at.
But let me tell you with the help of our controlling company controlling shareholder we've got a lot of resources that are looking at debt are looking at assets and we are focused on what opportunities may materialize.
Now I'm not naive enough to suggest that if we sit here in 12 months' time we'll look materially different.
It depends on what opportunities materialize in the future.
So let me just leave it at that.
Our next question comes from David Smith of Heikkinen Energy.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask could you estimate your daily cash operating cost for mid-water and fourth-gen rigs in Southeast Asia? It depends of course on the individual rig which rig you're talking about and the individual company.
But the operating cost will range anywhere from $60 000 to $110 000 a day.
LLC</strong> And that includes the fourth-gen rigs maybe at the -- towards the higher end? That would certainly include the fourth-gen rigs and conventionally more [ph] rigs that we have out there.
LLC</strong> Appreciate it.
It's good to be the low-cost operator.
Also wanted to ask if your view of the eventual U-shaped recovery also contains a view of how many floaters need to be removed from the global marketed fleet before that right half of the U starts to form.
That's -- how long is a piece of string? It depends how hard it bounces back.
So in terms of specific numbers I -- we're not going to throw that on the table right now.
We've done some work around that.
One of the first things I did when I came in here was work closely with other entities let's just say from a strategic perspective.
So we've got some idea around that.
I do suspect that although we've announced 6 assets that we're going to turn into razorblades I think some others in the market space will move forward and also retire assets.
But it really is how hard will that come back.
There's a lot of uncertainty in the marketplace.
But let's not forget one thing.
The steeper the decline in let's say in the price of our commodity now in the height of government [ph] prices the higher they will have to recover at some point in the future.
This business is a treadmill.
And if we step off it now then we only have to run harder further down the road.
The -- there's been commentary around the IEA dropping the demand numbers.
But let's remember that's not demand dropping it's the rate -- it's a decline in the rates of demand growth not demand going backwards.
So this will bounce back at some stage in the future.
I can't predict when.
But when it does bounce back it will be a pretty hard.
And that then depends how much of the mid-water fleet gets recontracted.
So it's -- there's no specific one answer to your question suffice to say that we've done some homework around it and we have a kind of envelope as to what that number should be.
Our next question comes from the line of J.B.
Lowe of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about capital allocation strategies going forward.
I know that you guys had repurchased some shares I think in the first quarter.
I guess what's your thought around doing something similar to that at this point? And also around the dividend I saw that the language in the press release for the dividend changed a little bit to say that there's no assurance that dividend -- any special dividend is going to be paid or what level going forward? I guess if you can just talk about those 2 things briefly.
Yes the -- so let me just start with share buybacks.
As I said before we don't really give guidance on future capital allocations.
We did have a share buyback program in place prior to my tenure but -- and this could be an option again in the future.
We look at this on an opportunistic basis from quarter-to-quarter.
The special dividend is a special dividend.
However at this stage no final decision on capital allocation priorities has been made.
And of course the Board of Directors recently approved the payment of the special dividend for the third quarter and we'll continue to review this special dividend on a quarterly basis moving forward.
And I think really that's as much as I could declare at this stage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
My other question was on the 3 rigs that you have cold stacked that you decided not to retire.
I guess what's kind of the difference between those rigs and how come if you're not actively marketing some of those how come you didn't choose to retire those as well? I guess I'm talking about the Saratoga and the General but also the Vanguard I guess.
I guess what's the thought process there between cold stacking and retiring those rigs? Yes.
J.B.
this is Ron.
Thanks for that question.
If you look at the Saratoga the General and the Vanguard we do think they have a future.
We think that future though is probably productive when the demand I think tightens up more than it has right now.
And as Marc has mentioned more than once this is a cyclical business and we expect that that positive cycle will follow negative cycles.
And so -- whereas I think some of the rigs that we chose to exit the fleet permanently I think we've recognized that their best days were behind them.
I think in the case of the Saratoga the General the Vanguard they can and likely will work again.
We just have to find the right market conditions when they reenter the fleet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's a good explanation.
I guess we've talked about almost every single rig in your fleet.
I guess one we haven't touched on is the Apex.
It's the one that's in Vietnam.
And I was just wondering do you think that has the potential to stay in the region when it rolls off in the first quarter? Or could that be potentially need to be to be moved somewhere else? Yes I appreciate the question.
In fact we were -- I was wondering who was going to ask about the Apex.
It only took 5 minutes.
So as you mentioned she's got final preparations underway in Singapore to work in Vietnam with Exxon that's coming along on schedule as planned.
It's interesting that we're getting quite a number of inquiries about her.
Some I think within the same theater but not limited to Asia.
And so I think for that reason we're pretty positive on what she can do after the Vietnam work.
Our final question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Gary could you just give us a sneak peek of the 10-Q? What was your CapEx for the quarter and the implied CapEx for Q4? CapEx for the fourth -- for the third quarter was about $230 million give or take.
And for the fourth quarter the big -- I'm not sure what we'll spend.
But we have both the Lion and the Hornet scheduled to be delivered from the shipyard.
And if you will remember those contracts were a 30% downpayment 70% upon completion.
So we -- both of those will be in the $400 million range per rig.
So it's going to be substantially increased mostly because of the newbuild drillships.
All right.
Well thanks for joining us folks.
We'll see you in 3 months' time and appreciate you listening in for what has been a very positive quarter for Diamond Offshore.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes Diamond Offshore's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Diamond Offshore's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Woll Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I remind you that information reported on this call speaks only as of today and therefore you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay of this call.
In addition certain statements made during this call may constitute statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Such statements are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by the statements.
These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by the company from time to time in our filings with the SEC including our annual report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Forward-looking statements reflect circumstances at the time they are made and the company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Furthermore as we start this call please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued earlier today and please note that the contents of our call today are covered by that disclosure.
And now I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
I'd like to start off by adding some context around our announcement today that our Board of Directors has declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.125 but for the first time in 29 quarters not declared a special quarterly dividend.
As in prior quarters the board arrived to this decision after careful consideration of our company's financial position future earnings outlook capital spending plans and future market conditions.
Since our earnings call in October market fundamentals in the oil and gas space have continued to deteriorate leading many of our clients to announce significant cuts to their 2015 capital spending plans.
We believe that our market will contract by over 20% year-on-year leaving little if any opportunity for new industry fixtures to be announced.
This is driven by the continued decline in the pricing of commodity benchmarks such as Brent and WTI which we all know are down by more than 50% since last summer.
The impact to the 2015 operating cash flows of our clients should not be underestimated especially as they were already under pressure to deliver enhanced shareholder value.
Many of our clients are seeking to sublet contracted drilling units which are then competing in the market against rigs that become available.
These would be both the newbuilds and those which naturally roll off contract at term completion.
In my previous calls I had suggested that this would be a U shaped downturn.
I believe we are now well established in what could be a severe and protracted cycle and any green shoots of recovery are still a long way over the horizon.
It will get worse before it gets better.
Across the industry there are already a significant number of rigs going idle including some recently delivered 6th generation drillships.
There remain over 30 uncontracted floaters that are yet to be launched and with the few potential contracting opportunities being pushed out and a lack of contracting opportunities for rollovers; we believe we could see a significant number of ultra-deepwater rigs idle without a contract by year-end.
As we entered the downturn Diamond Offshore successfully re-secured fixtures for our last two ultra-deepwater newbuild drillships.
We now have all of our new drillships under contract with top tier clients through at least 2019.
Additionally our harsh environment semi the Ocean GreatWhite is contracted on a 3-year fixture commencing upon a scheduled delivery in late 2016.
The GreatWhite's final yard payment in Q2 2016 represents our last remaining significant newbuild capital obligation.
Many offshore drilling contractors are highly levied and could face liquidity issues.
6th generation assets are expensive to stack and deck has to serviced whether the asset is working or not as the downturn continues we see the potential for an environment in which Diamond Offshore may buy assets at attractive prices.
With our conservative capitalization strong liquidity position and the strong investment grade credit rating.
We believe the Diamond Offshore is well positioned to take advantage of any opportunities to acquire assets that may materialize during this downturn.
Therefore we believe this is the right time to revisit our capital allocation strategy so that we're in a better position to take advantage of these opportunities.
To maximize capital flexibility the Board of Directors has elected not to pay a special dividend for the foreseeable future and in so doing for an additional $400 million per year that could be opportunistically deployed.
As always our Management and our Board remain committed to generating shareholder value and if the market conditions improve in a meaningful way we will revisit our capital allocation options accordingly.
So now let me turn specifically to the last quarter.
For the fourth quarter we recorded earnings per share $0.72 versus $0.67 in the fourth quarter of last year.
The biggest operational driver versus the prior year quarter was that during 2014 we stacked or sold eight rigs.
This was partially offset by the contributions of our new units the Ocean BlackHawk and the Ocean Onyx which went to work during 2014.
Gary will discuss results shortly in greater detail.
In December we took delivery of our second and third drillships.
The Ocean BlackHornet and Ocean BlackRhino which are now headed towards the US Gulf of Mexico for contract commencement.
Also in December we took delivery of our deepwater semi the Ocean Apex which has begun its inaugural assignment in Vietnam.
We plan to take the delivery of the Ocean BlackLion during the first quarter and she should begin working also in the Gulf of Mexico later this year.
Our first newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackHawk began its operation in the Gulf of Mexico in May 2014 working for Anadarko and since then the rigs crew has been able to deliver best in class metrics for a 6th generation drillship.
The Ocean BlackHawk completed the fourth quarter without any unpaid downtime and in the process set a series of new drilling records for the client.
Turning now to our legacy mid-water.
We believe that unless market conditions improved unexpectedly some of the units in our legacy fleets maybe cold stacked during the year.
We continue to expect that some of the newer generation rigs will compete down and that we will see more low-end mid-water units retired across the entire industry.
While there is no immediate solution to the supply demand in balance such retirement should help accelerate a recovery in the current market cycle.
I will now handover the call to Gary to give further colour on the financials and then I'll make some closing remarks.
Gary? Thanks Mark.
As always I'll give a little colour on this past quarter's results and then cover what's to be expected for the upcoming quarter.
In addition as is our custom with our fourth quarter earnings call I'll spend some time providing additional selective information on what we expect for the entire year of 2015 with regards to various line items on the income statement expected capital expenditures downtime etc.
For the quarter just ended we had after tax net income of $99 million or $0.72 per share which is based on contract drilling revenues of $674 million.
This is an increase in EPS from $0.38 reported in our prior quarter's earnings primarily as a result of the $109 million pre-tax impairment write-down associated with retiring six mid-water rigs in Q3 of 2014.
Despite the increase in EPS quarter-over-quarter contract drilling revenues decreased from $726 million reported in the previous quarter.
This was driven mainly by a number of rigs which concluded contracts in Q4 or in the second half of Q3 and remained uncontracted at December 31.
These reductions were partially offset by the Ocean Patriot which began its three year contract with Shell in the North Sea early in the fourth quarter following extended shipyard upgrade.
For more details concerning individual contract timings I'd refer you to our rig status reports that we file on a monthly basis.
I'll now address some of the additional line items on our fourth quarter income statement.
First of all contract drilling expenses for the quarter came in at $359 million which is $41 million less than the prior quarter and below our Q4 guidance of $390 million to $410 million.
This favourable variance is a result of two items.
First we recorded a fourth quarter accounting adjustment that reduced operating expense by about $19 million these costs were capitalized during the quarter thus reducing anticipated expense.
While this first item was merely due to a change in an accounting convention during the quarter.
The remaining favourable variance and operating expense was a result of true cost savings.
Responding to market conditions we were able to de-manned some of our cold stacked rigs quicker than expected thus reducing cost.
As I've stated in prior earning call after safety cost control and efficiency remain one of our top goals.
Depreciation expense increased as expected quarter-over-quarter to $132 million but slightly above our prior guidance of $118 million to $120 million.
A portion of this is a result of depreciation associated with the additional $19 million capitalized as a result of Q4 change in an accounting convention that I previously mentioned.
The remaining variance is due to the normal true up depreciation at year-end to reflect the exact timing of capital purchases made during the year.
G&amp;A cost and interest expense for the fourth quarter of 2014 came within previous guidance ranges.
Our effective tax rate of 35.5% was slightly above.
The higher tax rate was simply result of changes to our estimates in the geographies and the various foreign tax rates where we earn our pre-tax income.
And finally we incurred a little over $1 billion in capital expenditures in the quarter.
The bulk of which relates to the final shipyard payments made on the delivery of the Ocean BlackHornet and Ocean BlackRhino both of which are currently en route to term contracts in the US Gulf of Mexico.
Now looking forward into 2015.
Some of the items that will affect our financial performance next quarter and for the coming full year.
During 2014 we incurred a significant number of downtime days related to seven rigs being out of service for their 5-year special surveys.
For 2015 we were projecting only two rigs to undergo a regulatory surveys with that associated downtime those being the Ocean Lexington and the Ocean Guardian.
In addition to survey downtime we have a number of rigs that will be moving during the year and several that will incur downtime for it for equipment upgrade acceptance testing etc.
The exact number of down days expected in 2015 and the timing of these projects.
I refer you to our rig status report that we filed just this morning.
Now turning to our guidance for the year ahead.
I will give estimates for the first quarter and full year 2015 for individual line items from the income statement with the exception being of contract drilling expense because of the uncertain industry outlook it is difficult to predict longer term rig utilization and therefore I will only comment on operating expense for the first quarter of 2015.
For the first quarter 2015 contract drilling expense not including reimbursable expense.
It's expected to be in the range of $340 million to $360 million.
In addition to normal daily operating cost this will now include operating cost for the Ocean Apex as she begins her contract with ExxonMobil in Vietnam after delivery from a shipyard.
We're also expect to incur cost of $6 million to $8 million to move to Ocean Worker back to the US Gulf of Mexico.
Offsetting these items we'll be operating cost savings as we continue to de-manned rigs that have recently come off contract.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line contract drilling expenses on the income statement which does not include cost incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Depreciation expense for the full year 2015 is estimated to be in the range of $530 million to $550 million and the increase over 2014 DD&amp;A primarily due to the delivery of our newbuild drillships.
We expect Q1 depreciation cost to come in at $130 million to $140 million and remain in that range for the remaining quarters of the years.
G&amp;A cost are expected to total $75 million to $85 million for the year with approximately $19 million to $22 million incurred during each quarter of 2015.
Interest expense on our current debt and expected borrowings on our bank line of credit to fund delivery of the Ocean BlackLion this year net of capitalized interest is rejected to total $105 million to $115 million or about $50 million above the total for 2014.
This increase is a result of lower capitalized interest in 2015 due to the delivery of our drillships.
Net interest in the first two quarters of 2015 should run close to $30 million and then decreased to closer to $25 million in the final two quarters.
We're looking at an effective tax rate for the year to be in the range of 24% to 28%.
As always any changes in the geographic mix of the sources of our earnings as well as tax assessments or settlements or movements in exchange rates will impact our effective tax rate.
And finally moving on to capital expenditure guidance.
We believe that we will spend maintenance capital of approximately $340 million for the full year 2015 which is up slightly from our 2014 maintenance CapEx spend of $290 million.
This increase is mainly driven by equipment requirements associated with multiyear contracts beginning in 2015.
I would note here that these equipment upgrades which total about $68 million will be reimbursed by our customers in addition to any operating day rate we disclose in our rig status report.
Newbuild CapEx for 2015 is expected to be $590 million which includes the final 70% shipyard payment for the BlackLion along with oversight cost for the Ocean GreatWhite and the completion cost for the service life extension project on the Ocean Confidence.
Together maintenance and newbuild capital expenditures are expected to total approximately $930 million in 2015 and with that I'll turn it back to Mark.
Thank you Gary.
As I said in my previous remarks we expect that the market will have a significant oversupply of rigs through the remainder of the year and well into 2016.
Challenges lie ahead in the coming quarters while clients revised their plans in response to the dramatic decline in oil prices.
In a depressed markets certain clients may seek to renegotiate or otherwise take advantage of negotiated terms to terminate a rig contract.
This is a possibility facing both ourselves and our competition.
Diamond Offshore has cash on hand and borrowing capacity in place to complete our remaining newbuild projects and most importantly all of these units are contracted with Tier 1 clients well into 2019 and beyond.
We will react to this downturn by continuing to focus on the things that we can control such as safety the quality of our operations rationalizing cost and the efficient use of our capital.
We are in a cyclical business and eventually market supply and demand will come into balance as our clients return to prioritize in production and reserve replacement.
We are hoping to have an opportunity to repeat what is being successful in the past that is we want to acquire very good assets at attractive prices.
We cannot predict the timing of a market recovery.
As a result we must position the company financially so that we're able to act decisively when opportunities appear.
It is because of this strategy that we have delivered amongst the highest return on capital employed of our industry peers whilst being able to pay substantial dividends.
When the market turns and eventually it will we plan to have position the company accordingly and with that I will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] our first question comes from the line of Jud Bailey of Wells Fargo.
I've got a question obviously thank you Marc for all the real estate commentary on the outlook on the market and I'm just curious you obviously painted a pretty realistic picture on asset utilization going forward and if I just kind of triangulate and things you're not giving full year operating cost guidance.
Do we take that to mean you're probably contemplating stacking quite a few more rigs as they roll off contracts or how should we think about the lack of annual operating cost guidance in a context of deteriorating market like we're seeing today? Jud thanks very much very pertinent question there.
Well let me start by saying currently we have no plans to scrap any additional rigs in the near future.
We preannounced the scraping of the Ocean Winner in last earnings call and of course that still has a couple of months to run on its contract but depending on market conditions moving forward.
We are likely to see additional rigs in our fleet become cold stacked but having said that at this time I'm not expecting these to be scrapped unless the markets further substantially turns down.
Every quarter we look at the entire fleet and determine whether we should impair assets and in this quarter we found we had no need to further do so.
So we'll undertake the same review on a quarterly basis moving forward and obviously advice accordingly but that's probably relevant to the lack of operational guidance moving forward.
Okay alright.
I appreciate that and then if I could my follow-up if I could ask you about a couple of specific regions Brazil and Mexico where you had some exposure and I think both NOC's in those region are going to be cutting spending quite a bit.
I'd just wanted to see if I could give any colour or commentary is what your customers down there are telling you? Jud good morning this is Ron Woll.
Those are two good markets where both NOC's have been rather public in their intentions to renegotiate and adjust their portfolio and Pemex really I think specifically so we have five rigs with Pemex today and one more starting later this year and I would say that we are in discussion with Pemex around our portfolio and what their ongoing needs are for obvious reasons we won't get into the detail this morning on the discussions but I would describe them as broadly collaborative and ongoing.
So I think we continue to work that with Pemex.
In the case of Petrobras like other operators they have strong downward pressures on them right and they're certainly pulled back on new programs.
So that certainly is informing them pretty heavily on work going forward.
So we continue to work with them on what needs they have but their pressures also becomes our pressures.
Alright thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Marc if your forecast of really no new fixtures signed this year comes to pass; can you describe with regard to your fleet exposure which of your rigs are least likely to be cold stacked and may presumably the Apex and the Onyx? Of course because they're the newest that have contract rollover exposure.
Also the Valiant which has received significant capital recently I would assume that would be high on your list of keeping marketed.
What else is that correct first of all and then what else would be on that list possibly? Ian this is Ron Woll again here you know the Valiant of course just we've picked up some work in the North Sea there and so as we look at the fact that there are relatively I think few new fixtures to talk about today or on the near horizon.
Clearly the older rigs will have a difficult time competing going forward.
We are not announcing today any new plans on who will be stacked and so we'll have to make that decision as the market I think reveals itself but clearly we look at the some of the rigs where we've invested more recently like the Apex.
We certainly will continue to work her in the marketplace but we have to respect the fact that fixtures are what they are and we have to make those decisions going forward.
Okay.
Gary I don't know if I missed this in your comments before what was the bad debt expense last quarter and is there any concern that is that canary in a coal mine with regards to the specific customer? Last quarter we had no bad debt expense.
Last quarter we had it in the third quarter of 2013 which was related to OGX.
$2.2 million in Q4 2013 or that was maybe I have a bad printout here.
I'll call you offline on that.
Okay.
Hey Gary? Sorry I'd correct myself I was looking in the wrong line there with your loss on disposition so never mind on that.
I'll follow-up.
Yes that was just miscellaneous equipment.
Got you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Klayton Kovac of Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt So when you said the market was down 20% year-over-year is this just Q4 to Q4 working rig count or is this like full year average versus full year average? Also could you just describe how you're thinking about this a bit more for instance is it being driven by specific region or customer? Klay when I said the market is going to be down 20% that's really on a year-on-year basis.
I think if you look across our clients portfolio vis-à-vis what's being communicated to the external market as it relates to that capital spending plans for 2015.
I think that you see that significant reductions have taken place in terms of North America land and specifically in the unconventional arena and numbers that are being suggested are in the 30% plus range.
I think in the international arena however especially with our NOC's much of the reduction in capital expenditure from 2015 perspective compared with 2014 is less than that.
So if you put everything into the melting pot I think generally in the overseas market there's less of contraction outside of the United States but of course we play big in the Gulf of Mexico and overall I think that the market the offshore drill as it facing is about 20% reduction in capital year-over-year so that's the basis for making that statement.
Okay thank you.
Then just as a follow-up in your prepared remarks you highlighted many clients seeking the sublet drilling units could you further elaborate on this? For instance how many of your rigs specifically are being sublet and then do you have any idea what customers are sort of bidding these your customers what they're bidding these rigs for? Yes as it's specifically right relates to the industry in general.
With regard to our own fleet we don't see too many of our own fleet out there being marketed on a sublet basis but we do stay in touch with our clients around the world and I think that if you look at each specific client on individual basis I don't think that there is one client and I'm speaking about from an industry perspective not just our own fleet that does not have at least one rig available to sublet specific to client Statoil we know that they've got a number of units so they're trying to sublet unsuccessfully as indeed do companies like TOTAL and most of the major players.
So we got to be cognizant of the fact that these sublets are competing in a market space for rigs that are coming out of the shipyards today and other rigs that are rolling off contract on a natural basis as the term expires.
Okay thank you.
I'll turn it back over.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis of Credit Suisse Marc when the Ocean Confidence was put in the yard in the Canary Islands for maintenance I think the plan was to move that rig potentially up to the North Sea just given the slowdown in that market and just given the calibre of that rig is that something where we could see that rig being as exactly market be swapped in for another contract as you've done in the past.
Thank you Greg for that question.
Yes the Confidence will be coming out of the shipyard in the Canary Isles and another couple of months.
It was a significant upgrade to the rig it's a very capable unit it wasn't really designed to go up to the North Sea we're taking the Valiant up to the North Sea and of course that has secured work recently up there.
The Confidence has more of a worldwide market in which it plays.
We were looking at an opportunity in India we're looking an opportunity back here in the Gulf of Mexico and the end of the day there is a possibility that we might consider a rig swap in other words upgrade what might be a unit under contract already with the Confidence.
In terms of relationship building with our clients.
Okay great and then just Gary you mentioned that the Guardian is expected to go into for special survey work.
I mean that rig doesn't after it rolls off contract mid-year that rig does not it doesn't look like it has any additional work post that in the event that it doesn't have post work is that a project where it could be delayed? Yes we'll take a look at that.
We'd hope that we do find additional work and we go forward with that survey that's the plan right now and actually as I'm looking at it we will do that survey because we have to do the survey in the second quarter it's coming to then more likely than not that survey will go on regardless of what happens with the rig because we're going to have to finish the current contract we're on.
Okay great.
Bye guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim I'm curious on the high spec floaters if they go idle and we're kind of warm stacking.
What do you think we can bring the cost the kind of cost down to and how quickly can it be done and how do you think about it even if it's for kind of gap period time and the rest.
Just if you could walk me through and how you're thinking about that'd be great.
Well from a newbuild perspective the 6th generation drillships will be expensive to stack as it relates to Diamond Offshore we don't have any that will be moving down that path because all of our newbuild drillships of course are contracted through 2019 and beyond but for those drillships that coming out of the yard without contracts.
You're probably looking at about minimum $100 000 a day and then on top of that some of the other companies that are bringing now also have to service that.
So it's not a cheap exercise the other units in the fleet out there.
The less high spec units actually lend themselves quite well to stacking because you can really take the cost out of these units but these 6th generation drillships you go to find a deepwater port you can't really drop an anchor down and let them swing around they got to be maintained they're high spec.
So there is a substantial cost to stacking these units.
Off the $100 000 is most of that fuel kind of just running in DP or how do you breakdown $100 000 cost if you don't mind? Well you still got to keep these units quite well manned.
You know you've got to run the DP system to a certain extent.
So it's a combination of everything.
There is a lot of electronic gadgetry on these units and electronics don't lend themselves to idle time in a let's say a corrosive seawater environment.
So you got to keep the unit basically running and you've got to cycle the stuff on the drill floor.
It's a combination of everything really.
And okay so if I could follow-up I know that there is been a lot of turmoil down in Brazil.
I'm trying to figure that figure out the polite way to ask the question like how functional of an organization right now is Petrobras to really have negotiations with? Petrobras you're right went through some changes over the last week or so but I was actually down in Brazil and Rio last week and it's still a very functional organization.
We had meetings with the appropriate people that are involved in the drilling space so I don't really expect much of a change in what's already been telegraphed to the community having said that we do know that as it relates to perhaps the a ward of new fixtures moving forward.
You might see a delay in that but in terms of what's already on the contract and their ability to deliver from a exploration and production perspective I don't really see much change moving forward.
Is there something well there is a whole new process that have to be put in place in order to get contracts approved or is it something where new management has to take hold and therefore you kind of restart those type of dialogs.
Well a bit of both apart from the CEO which came in from the outside.
Many of the positions on an interim basis being filled with people who are already in the organization.
So as I said earlier yes there will be perhaps more diligence around the word of new contracts but in terms of what's already in place.
I think that it's likely to business as normal.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Praveen Narra of Raymond James I guess based on your commentary it's clear that you expect the market to get worse from here but is there anything that you need to see before you get more comfortable that there is at least clarity into the market cycle to do M&amp;A or would you just kind of dollar cost average down and do acquisitions over time through the downturn? Well we are in the early stages of what is likely to be a protected downturn for offshore drillers.
We need to see more fixtures coming to the market.
Now just to clarify something that was brought up earlier in the Q&amp;A sessions.
We are not saying that there is going to be no fixtures awarded in 2015 it's just it's going to be that's going to be limited number that are out there.
They're going to be pure and far between.
In terms of timing to take advantage of the downturn I do not want to create an expectation of a specific timeframe.
All but we're even eager to pull a trigger in the near future.
What is more important for us is that any opportunity we pursue needs to create long-term shareholder value.
So notwithstanding a sudden turnaround in the market.
Let's say for geopolitical reasons or similar we will be very patient in our approach moving forward.
Okay I think that makes a lot of sense and then just in terms getting back to that contract signing in 2015 I guess could you clarify is that for work to begin in 2015 or your customers kind of approaching signing rigs for 2016 or is it are they at least engaging in some conversations for 2016? Well it's pretty arid out there.
In terms of even dialog around any fixtures that may materialize there is no much chatter in the market.
From an offshore driller perspective the fixture engine needs a while to spin up so to speak and so anything that people bring to the market place today you're really looking at a 12 months to 18 months cycle before the bits start turning to the right and you saw generating revenue.
So in terms of any the timing of any uptick it's going to be a while before it happens.
There is the odd fixture that's out there today that really is looking for a 6th generation drillship that's one here in the Gulf of Mexico for example but there's going to be a lot of people chasing out.
We're not in the market itself because all newbuild units are already on contract.
So let's not misunderstand the timing that it takes to be on ticket from when the opportunity is first identified by our clients and as we've spoken to already on the call there really isn't much chatter in the market at this moment in time.
Very helpful commentary.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers Investment You stressed earlier in the call that in 2015 cold stacked rigs were not expected to be scrapped.
With higher spec rigs moving down market and newbuilds coming to market what gives you the confidence that cold stack mid-water rigs can eventually return to market? Let me just clarify a point here.
Every quarter according to financial regulations we have to look at our fleet and decide what will be scrapped and what won't be scrapped and then we take the appropriate write-down.
So what I actually said was at this moment in time.
We've taken a look at the fleet and established that there is nothing that needs to be cold stacked beyond what we did earlier at the end of last year.
So I just want to clear on that.
I'm not necessarily stating that we won't actually cold stack anything later in the year.
Depending on what happens in the market but in terms of marketing rigs and how these rigs will come back.
I'd just like to say one thing.
I specifically remember in March 1999.
Many on the street were worried that the old price had fallen by half and were predicting that we had another 50% decline moving forward.
Well you know that's not similar to where we are at today fallen by half and many people are suggesting it can go down by another half.
Okay decline slightly further from that point back in 1999 but actually what happened is that came back and over the years.
We ended up seeing oil increased from what was at the time $10 to $140 and so it's very difficult to say these many of our rigs will never work again.
We're certainly not in that position.
I think the cure for low oil price as many have said is low oil prices and the market will rebound at that time we will consider what we're doing with our fleet and I think you'll see many of the units that are out there today that people who are suggesting don't value still have value moving forward.
Before its horses for corpses much of our fleet is cheap to operate and declining market there may be an advantage around that.
Actually that's very helpful kind of turning more optimistic scenario.
You mentioned that one of your position for opportunities as they might come up and I'm just wondering if you could add a little more colour as to what your specific interest might be for example newbuilds versus existing rigs and bearing in mind what you said a little while ago about the cost to warm stacked rates would be willing to buy a rig that you might have to warm stack? The simple answer to that is yes.
We have done in the past and we have been successful in that.
I do believe this downturn will create opportunities for consolidation as indeed most downturn in the past share.
History is not always is not necessarily a good predictor of the future.
So we'll just have to see how things play out but I would be willing to purchase assets that would be stacked for period of time moving forward.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Lukas Daul of ABG You mentioned the discussion regarding a potential cancellation or contract renegotiations and I was wondering beside the notion of Pemex.
If you have been approached or if you have discussed this with your clients and how do you see it sort of playing out in terms of one-sided terminations or was it going to be a mutual agreement? This is Ron Woll thanks for that question.
I guess the most I think obvious example sort of a one-sided act on contracts would be Statoil which of course we have taken a very firm position on.
I say more broadly if you look at our overall customers both in good markets and bad customers do occasionally seek to adjust contract terms and there is no doubt this market has provided some sharp motivation for operators to take that on more aggressively so this topic is no doubt this topic is real for us in 2015.
I would say that at Diamond we're generally open to what I call collaborative discussion with customers to make adjustments.
I would say though that we do standby the integrity of our contracts.
We are not open to what I'd call one-sided reductions of either rates or term but we're open to solutions that are mutually beneficial.
So I think this market I think serves up those conversations and it will be part of where our energy goes this year.
Okay and just going back on the 2015 fixed from activity if there is on my count roughly 110 floaters becoming available during the year including newbuilds and rigs rolling off contract how many of them do you think will find work in 2015? This is Ron again.
I think it's' very safe to say that few of those are going to earn some new work here in 2015.
Operators from a capital standpoint are simply lockdown on new projects and even though they have are certainly harshest scrutiny so I think you're going to have to look in the lower end of that spectrum in terms of who will pick up new work.
Alright thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of J.B.
Lowe of Cowen and Company I just had a quick follow-up on potential acquisition target so you guys are looking at would there be anything any sort of equipment that you guys would rule out? I guess what I mean by that is would you guys look for to pick up assets that have similar characteristics as your current fleet in terms of the yard where they were built or equipment on different rigs in order to better streamline the acquisition? J.B.
thanks for the question.
Perhaps the best way of answering that is to suggest that everything is on the table and nothing is off it.
Certainly we will have a preference for higher spec assets.
We will look at any and all options that materialize and only deploy capital to this end if we are let's say comfortable with the long-term return profile of such assets.
For example this could include purchasing individual assets doing an acquisition or even perhaps both so the key here is really to look at it from a long-term shareholder value perspective.
Okay fair enough and my other question was on the Apex and the Onyx.
These are kind of unique rigs in the market place right now just given how they've been refurbished.
I'm just curious is to how you see those rigs kind of fitting into for the global scenario right now in terms of competing against newbuilds or competing against older assets.
What types of projects are those kind of purpose build for and could potentially better against other for? J.B.
this is Ron.
Appreciate the question.
Before the market loss so much ground I think the Apex and Onyx both were rigs that were attracting a lot of attention and you think about when the market does recover and I guess we should emphasize although the news is tough these days the market will recover.
These are cycle that go through lows and highs and there will be a turn.
I think it's safe to say that those kinds of rigs will have I think some good demand when the market does pick back up.
You know I'd also add that with all the high spec 6th gen assets coming in some of these other rigs that we have of course are much less expensive and much more affordable to operate so I think there are some advantages for operators to contemplate when we think about budget constraint projects but all that said I think the overall I think market force is still applied there is not a lot of new work to talk about it and even the Apex the Onyx I think have a tough market road ahead but those are rigs that there is no doubt in my mind they have a good future and when the market picks back up they'll go back to work.
Alright thanks very much.
And we have time for one more call.
Our final question will come from the line of Harry Mateer of Barclays Just one question for you on the balance sheet.
I know you have a maturity coming up in a few months with the newbuilds you have your cash and marketable securities have come down quite a bit in the past few months what are your intentions for that maturity.
Is it something you'll just have to take down on your credit facility or do you think you'll be looking at the bottom market? That comes due on July 1 we certainly have the ability to cover that with the line of credit that we have in place and we will take a look at on July 1 and evaluate our options evaluate interest rates and make a determination at that time.
I'll just add to that.
A couple of quarters ago we increased our revolver as you know to $1.5 billion that combined with our ability to issue debt at reasonable levels provides us ample dry powder to pursue opportunities as they arise.
The amount of debt that we have or we have access to will be completely dependent on whatever opportunity materializes and at this moment in time I'm very comfortable with our debt position and our ability to issue while still remaining in investment grade.
Okay thank you.
That was our final question.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
So gentlemen thanks very much for attending the call.
As we've stated earlier during our prepared remarks we are entering a protracted downturn with probably already well into the horizontal aspect of the view that I've been talking about but we do know that we're in a very cyclical industry and as I mentioned earlier the cure for low oil prices is low oil prices.
So we remain optimistic that the offshore drillers will have their day in the sun.
Again moving along so with thank you very much.
We will see on the Q1 quarter call.
Thank you this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Diamond Offshore's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Woll Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I'll remind you that information reported on this call speaks only as of today and therefore you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay of this call.
In addition certain statements made during this call may be forward-looking in nature.
Those statements are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks and uncertainties many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by these statements.
These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed in our filings with the SEC including our 10-K and 10-Q filings.
Further we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued earlier today and please note that the contents of our call today are covered by that disclosure.
And now I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2015 conference call.
I will start by picking up where I left off last quarter when I suggested that the market will get worse before it gets better.
Across the industry we continue to see minimal contracting activity primarily consisting of short duration term extensions.
Day rates for potential new fixtures are continuing to fall and a few existing contracts are seeing rates exchange the term.
Some clients have even canceled work where permitted under contract terms.
Industry-wide and since we entered this cyclical downturn over $4 billion of backlog has been canceled.
We at Diamond Offshore are not immune to these market forces.
During the quarter we disclosed that a representative from Pemex has verbally informed us of their intention to terminate the drilling contracts on the Ocean Ambassador Ocean Nugget and Ocean Summit and to cancel the contract on the Ocean Lexington which was scheduled to begin work in September.
I want to clarify that for Diamond Offshore the right to terminate a contract for convenience without compensation is unique to our client Pemex.
But as of today all four of our rigs located in Mexico continue to work while we engage in ongoing dialog with Pemex.
We have not received written notice of termination and therefore our contracts remain in place at this moment.
Additionally we previously disclosed that Petrobras has notified us of its right to terminate the contract on the Ocean Baroness and has verbally informed us that it does not intend to complete its contract term.
To-date we have not received written notification of termination from Petrobras and the rig continues working although we expect that work to conclude in the near future.
The issues affecting the Ocean Baroness are not related to our other units working in Brazil.
Our relationship with Petrobras remains strong and we continue to have discussions on finding a mutually beneficial strategy as it relates to their forward rig requirements.
As I've said in previous conference calls we expect that the market will have a significant oversupply of drilling capacity into 2016 and perhaps beyond.
Our industry will be challenged in the coming quarters as clients continue to adjust their capital expenditure in response to forecasted commodity prices.
Given the continued deterioration in market fundamentals we have determined that the carrying values of 7 of our 12 mid-water floaters and our older drillships were impaired.
And so we have recognized a non-cash pre-tax write-down totaling $359 million.
Three of the units in the impairment group the Ocean Ambassador Ocean Clipper and Ocean Lexington are currently working but we do not expect the contracts to be extended beyond their current terms likely resulting in the cold stacking of those rigs.
Also reflected in the impairment are the Ocean Nomad and Ocean General which are cold stacked in the North Sea and Malaysia respectively.
We have also announced that we plan to retire and scrap three mid-water rigs the Ocean Saratoga Ocean Worker and the Ocean Yorktown which are currently cold stacked in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Last quarter I stated that we were likely to cold stack additional rigs in our fleet.
I went on to say that we were not expecting these to be scrapped unless the market further declined.
Not only do we feel that the market has continued to deteriorate during this last quarter and will now be lower for longer but also we have further clarity on potential changes to offshore drilling regulations here in the Gulf of Mexico.
Last month the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement released the long-awaited draft of its well control regulations which includes significant changes for the design and maintenance of blowout preventers.
The proposed rules remain in the comment period and would most likely not go into effect before next year.
However it is clear that future well control regulations will mandate newer technologies requiring significant investments to certain second and third-generation rigs.
Investing in these units is not the best use of our capital and therefore the proposed regulations have factored into our decision to scrap the three mid-water rigs currently cold-stacked here in the U.S.
During the quarter we also recognized a $6 million pre-tax charge related to restructuring and employee separation costs.
We have reduced head count at onshore bases and corporate facilities including our Houston office where both corporate and support payroll costs have been reduced by 20%.
We have also taken the difficult steps of reducing variable pay and benefit throughout the company.
In aggregate these changes should result in annualized savings in excess of $100 million.
These cost reductions are in addition to the payroll savings from cold-stacking rigs as they come off contract.
Further a hiring freeze has been in place since last summer and of course there'll be no merit raise this year.
Cost control is a necessity in any market.
But it is important that we also remain focused on the top line and as such I'd like to highlight some of the recent successes of our ongoing fleet renewal program.
Our second newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackHornet went on payroll last month beginning its five-year term contract with Anadarko.
And our third the Ocean BlackRhino is expected to go on ticket later this month.
Shipyard delivery of our fourth drillship the Ocean BlackLion is imminent and she will be headed to the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico where all four of our newbuild drillships will work on solid rate term contracts extending into 2019 or beyond.
We are also engaged in the latter stages of direct discussions for new term contracts for some of our recently upgraded semis.
And with that I will now hand over the call to Gary to give further color on the financials and then I will have some closing remarks.
Gary? Thanks Marc.
As always I'll give a little color on this past quarter's results and then cover what's to be expected for the upcoming quarter.
For the quarter just ended we reported an after-tax net loss of $256 million or $1.86 per share based on contract drilling revenues of $600 million.
This net loss compared to net income of $99 million or $0.72 per share reported in the previous quarter was primarily driven by the impairment write-down recorded in Q1 that Marc has already mentioned in which we impaired seven of our mid-water rigs and our drillship the Ocean Clipper.
In addition to the impairment charge we incurred an additional $6 million of restructuring cost related to workforce reductions in the Houston office.
Contract drilling revenues decreased from $674 million in Q4 of 2014 to $600 million in Q1 of 2015 primarily as a result of several rigs rolling off contract in late Q4 or early Q1 and failing to find follow-on work in this depressed market.
Partially offsetting this decrease was the fact that the Ocean Apex successfully began her initial contract with Exxon in early Q1 in Southeast Asia.
For more details concerning individual rig contracts and timing I'll refer you to our rig status reports that we file monthly.
Moving on to the other line items on the income statement first contract drilling expenses for the quarter came in at $351 million which was within our guidance of $340 million to $360 million that we gave out in our last earnings conference call.
Goals that we set for ourselves to quickly reduce costs from rigs that rolled off contract were met thus enabling us to meet our rig expense reduction objectives.
As I have stated in prior earnings calls after safety cost controls and efficiencies remain one of our top goals.
Depreciation expense increased as expected quarter-over-quarter to $137 million and was within our prior guidance of $130 million to $140 million.
However G&amp;A cost and interest expense for the first quarter of 2015 both came in below guidance.
We incurred $17 million in G&amp;A cost under the $19 million to $22 million that we expected.
This shortfall is a result of cost-cutting measures instituted in the first quarter and this lower expenditure rate should continue for the remaining quarters of 2015.
A slightly lower than projected interest expense reported is simply a result of timing differences in amounts re-classed to capitalized interest in accordance with GAAP.
The largest difference between actual results in Q1 versus our prior guidance was in our tax rate.
We expected our tax rate to fall in the range of between 24% and 28% but after adjusting for the rate book for the impairment and restructuring charges in Q1 the tax rate on normal earnings came in at approximately 13%.
This lower tax rate was simply a result of changes to our estimates in the geographies and the various foreign tax rates where we earn our pre-tax income.
Now for a look at some of the items that will affect our financial performance in the upcoming quarter.
As always downtime for surveys and shipyard projects will affect not only revenue numbers but also contract drilling cost.
In Q2 we will incur downtime for a survey on the Ocean Guardian which is located in the North Sea.
It is anticipated that the Guardian will incur approximately 40 days of downtime before returning to her contract with Shell.
The Ocean Confidence will complete her service life extension project during May which means operating expenses that have been capitalized and deferred throughout the rig's shipyard stay will again be recognized as a current period expense in Q2.
In addition to down days associated with these two rigs several other rigs will be mobing (13:06) and/or undergoing acceptance testing during the upcoming quarter.
For the exact number of down days expected in Q2 and the timing of these projects and other downtime items I have not mentioned here I will refer you to our rig status report that we filed this morning.
We expect rig operating cost as reported in the line contract drilling expense to increase slightly to between $350 million and $370 million in the upcoming second quarter.
On one hand ongoing rig cost will decrease as a result of our efforts to reduce cost through the efforts that Marc has already discussed.
In addition costs will be reduced as a result of rigs that have recently gone stacked or being retired.
However this will be more than offset by rigs that will begin working in Q2 in incurring normal operating cost.
This includes not only the drillships Ocean BlackHornet and Ocean BlackRhino but also the Ocean Valiant which began her contract in the North Sea with Premier on April 1.
In addition we will incur costs associated with the Ocean Guardian survey in Q2.
Also rig operating costs should increase slightly quarter-over-quarter.
As always I'll remind everyone that I've been talking about the line on our income statement contract drilling expenses.
These numbers that I've just given you do not include costs incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Reimbursable expenses as always whatever the amount incurred will be offset almost dollar for dollar with additional reimbursable revenues.
With regards to other items on the income statement we're expecting depreciation which will be affected by our impairment charge reduced maintenance capital spending and new rigs being delivered to come in between $118 million and $124 million in Q2 and stay in that range for the remaining quarters of the year.
As a result of our cost-cutting measures we are reducing our G&amp;A guidance to $16 million to $18 million per quarter on an ongoing basis.
Interest expense guidance remains the same at $25 million to $30 million per quarter for the final three quarters of 2015.
As for taxes based on current projections we believe our tax rate will come in somewhere between 11% and 16% in Q2 and will continue there for the rest of the year.
As always any changes with the geographic mix and the sources of our earnings as well as tax assessments or settlements or movements in exchange rates will impact our effective tax rate.
And finally moving on to our capital expenditure guidance we are reducing our maintenance CapEx projections from $340 million down to our current estimate of $290 million again a reflection of cost reductions we've made here at Diamond Offshore.
Newbuild CapEx for 2015 is expected to be $630 million which includes the final 70% shipyard payment for our fourth newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackLion; oversight costs on the Ocean GreatWhite; final cost on the BlackHornet and BlackRhino drillships which I have previously mentioned are beginning term contracts in the Gulf of Mexico during the second quarter; and finally the completion cost for the service life extension project on the Ocean Confidence.
Together maintenance and newbuild capital expenditures are expected to total approximately $920 million in 2015.
And with that I'll turn it back to Marc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Gary.
As we continue through what is likely to be a prolonged downturn management here at Diamond proactively took a number of important steps to position our company for today's market.
First we transferred the Ocean Confidence contract to our newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackRhino while the Confidence undertook a major upgrade and we are now in discussions with the client for a potential term contract on this upgraded rig.
We then successfully secured fixtures for our last two newbuild ultra-deepwater drillships.
This was one of the last major term fixtures seen in the ultra-deepwater space albeit from five months ago.
All of our newbuild capacity is contracted through at least 2019 at solid day rates.
In anticipation of our prior capital obligations associated with our newbuild program we've built up a sizeable cash reserve.
Additionally we increased our revolving credit to $1.5 billion which should be more than ample to cover remaining existing capital needs and to provide added flexibility to our balance sheet.
To further enhance our capital flexibility the board of directors previously elected not to pay a special dividend thereby freeing approximately $400 million on an annual basis.
We are aggressively controlling costs including decreasing the size of our workforce.
We have reduced compensation for personnel cut CapEx wherever prudent and successfully negotiated discount with our vendors on capital equipment.
And finally we have announced plans to scrap three mid-water rigs in addition to the six mid-water rigs that we retired and scrapped in Q3 of last year.
Going forward we will continue to focus on safe operations.
Our Q1 safety stats are the best we have recorded delivering quality operations rationalizing cost and utilizing our capital efficiently.
With that said let's now take your questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Hey good morning.
Thank you.
Marc you suggested there are potential direct contracts – direct negotiations for contracts term contracts for some combination of Onyx Apex and Confidence.
How would you handicap the odds of getting two or three of those on term contracts sometime in the near term? And then maybe if you could shed a little light on how you're thinking about putting term on rigs at what is approaching trough pricing right now as opposed to keeping more flexibility with the term? Ian good morning.
This is Ron.
We have I think a reasonable degree of confidence in terms of landing some of those opportunities for those rigs.
We're not yet at a point today where we're going to get into specifics on which rigs and which customers but obviously we have some measure of confidence that that will take place.
And I think from the standpoint of where we are in terms of utilization versus pricing I think we feel pretty good that we're making good tradeoffs regarding opportunities and pricing for those rigs.
We realize that we're marketing I think uphill right now in terms of where the market is.
But we have I think a fair measure of activity in our pipeline that gives us enough confidence to talk about them at least as a broad stroke here this morning.
Okay.
Well (20:42) Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ian what I'll do is I'll just come in here a little bit and just generally talk about the market as it relates to getting term now in what could be perceived as a low point in the market.
I think we've got to realize and face up to the fact that every major operator – well bar Saudi Aramco – is cutting their E&amp;P spending in 2015 by an average of say high mid-teens.
This is not going to change in the foreseeable future.
And if you consider our clients' negative cash accumulation from operating cash flow distribution of recent years it's easy to understand why.
When E&amp;P spending is cut the lion's share comes out of the drilling budget as it is the easiest to turn off.
This is why early in the cycle we contracted our last two speculative newbuilds increased our revolver and then of course suspended the special dividend.
It will need a sustained increase in the price of our commodity to convince operators to increase their E&amp;P spend and then the fixtures governor (21:49) will have to spin out which will take time.
We've also got a lot of spare capacity out there in the market so it will be a while before this capacity is absorbed and pricing power returns to the offshore suppliers.
So in essence we are comfortable now looking for term in what is a pretty arid market for fixtures and we're very comfortable with our strategy in negotiating that right now.
Okay.
Well I appreciate that follow-up color Marc.
Quick follow-up for you Gary.
Can you clarify what the revenue recognition status is on the Baroness? I assume that that rig is not working now.
Are you receiving payment or have you suspended collections and recognition already? No Ian that rig is still working under contract.
We continue to build recognize revenue as normal and continue to collect.
Okay.
So...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So Ian just to clarify one more time we've been verbally informed that the contract is going to be cancelled; we haven't received that in writing and the rig currently is actually working for the short term.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita of UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Marc just going back to the comment you just made on seeing a sustained increase in oil prices for them to come back do you think oil needs to be back to the $90 to $100 levels to see these IOCs come back? Where do you – I mean moving to $65 is that going to be enough to see some recovery in demand next year or 2017? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not going to put a number out there.
I think many commentators have spoken about what they think is required in the market to see activity rebound.
I don't think that it's so much of an oil price issue.
But of course a higher price does help somewhat.
At the end of the day the deepwater breakeven price is actually less than the average oil shale price.
But of course there are some shale oil plays that compete well with deepwater and vice versa.
But right now this really isn't a price-driven issue at present.
Obviously we need that price to come back up for our clients then to be comfortable to increase E&amp;P expenditure.
But even some of our clients let's me say down in Brazil for example have already come out and said that they've cut E&amp;P spending for 2015 and is likely to be further cut in 2016 too.
So the cycle is likely to be extended protracted and the bounce back when it comes I think has been pushed out during the course of Q1 to perhaps end of 2016 beginning of 2017.
I think the other you've got to remember is that we need to see the number of fixtures come back and that then is a time lag before the offshore drillers get on location turn a bit to the right and see revenue being generated.
So this downturn is going to last a little bit longer than we previously thought.
Fair enough and we agree.
So if you think about the market in 2016 and 2017 people are obviously starting to see including yourself some retirements and scrapping.
Have you put any thought into how much you would need to see as far as number of rigs that by the time we do get to 2017 or 2018 it would actually make a difference in the recovery or the pace of the recovery? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Again there's a number of commentators out there that have suggested numbers that we need anything from another 75 rigs to 100 rigs to be scrapped before pricing power returns.
But at the end of the day there's many moving parts in the engine room of success for the offshore drillers and it's not just that one equation itself.
If activity bounces back earlier than we're expecting right now and that could be geopolitical issues apart from anything else it's not really a case of having to scrap more rigs.
It would certainly help but we're not scrapping our entire second and third-generation fleet.
We do believe that there's an option and there's a benefit in maintaining some of those assets through this downturn and we are relatively optimistic that some of our second and third-generation rigs will have a foreseeable future that will be a benefit to our shareholders.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then finally could you just talk a little bit about those proposed regulations in the Gulf of Mexico that's affecting the mid-water fleet and what would need to be done to the rig and then estimated cost ranges? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure.
Some of them we'll look at investing and some as we've already mentioned will be scrapped.
But the BSEE regulations that have been or the draft regulations that were released to the industry cover a number of issues.
For example they need a double shear and pipe ram which many of the second and third-generation fleet currently don't have right now.
You're looking at perhaps going to a five-stack BOP possibly a six-stack BOP that will require an upgrade of anything from $20 million to $30 million.
And then for example the pipe would then have to be centralized in the BOP when you go to shear it.
So in that respect that kind of investment will need to be made on rigs that say only have a four-stack BOP right now.
But these rules and regulations aren't likely to go into or be enforced until next year.
And then there's a grandfathering period.
There is a – for example on the double shear pipe ram requirement there's a five-year compliance term on pipe centralization.
I believe it's seven years.
So this isn't something that's going to hit us hard right now.
It's going to be a gradual increase in regulations that will require a relatively small investment each year over the next five to seven possibly 10 years.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll turn it over.
Our next question comes from the line of Roland Morris of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hey guys thanks for take my question.
Marc I was just wondering if you could maybe expand a little bit on your comments as it pertains to Petrobras.
I know you said mutually beneficial strategy for their rig requirements going forward.
Could you just give us a little bit of color as to what that's going to look like in terms of whether it's a rate for term conversation or maybe just some broad strokes? I know in some cases we've seen you've improved linked contracts out there I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on those – that term there that you used? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We've been in Brazil a long time.
We've been there over 40 years.
We do have a strong relationship with the E&amp;P or the upstream folk in Brazil.
That continues.
We are working together with them in a mutually beneficial perspective to look at the rig requirements today in 2016 and beyond.
And in a very positive vein those discussions continue.
I'm not going to tip my hat as to what stage they're in or the like.
Suffice to say that we are close to an agreement but still have to get board approval and approval from the very senior management the new management that's down there in terms of coming out with some extra term on one of our rigs that is currently not in Brazil right now.
And really I want to leave it at that.
Okay.
That's pretty helpful.
And then I guess to be able to just skip to another area.
On the Ocean America what are the realistic prospects for that rig after the one-well work that you just had there with Apache? Yeah.
Yeah.
Fair enough Roland.
Appreciate that.
The America has got a pretty good reputation we think down in Australia as we like.
We like what she does there.
She has a good I think reputation amongst the operators.
We're obviously not announcing anything sort of new here today about her.
But given her track record and her safety case and condition I think that amongst a pretty difficult market we tend to view her very positively.
Got it.
Well I'll turn it back over.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Theo Meryanos of Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
Could you guys provide any color around the rate revision pushing out of the contract on the Valiant? Yeah.
This is Ron glad to.
Thanks for that question.
So in the case of the Valiant there with Premier we are in a – what we call kind of a preparation state I guess with Premier right now preparing the rig to commence drilling probably around – beginning of June timeframe.
And we had agreed based on some of their schedule needs and some of the prep work required we had agreed to a reduced rate while she's not technically drilling for them but preparing to drill.
So we had agreed to reduce that rate cover our costs plus a bit more and then go on full rate when she drilled starting in June.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Got you.
Thanks for that.
And okay could you just on the Apex and Quest moving them to Malaysia could you elaborate on the decision to relocate those rigs if there are any specifics or just general market conditions would be really helpful? Thank you.
Yeah.
Sure.
This is Ron again.
So on the Quest we know we've got some work – and that's a good example where even though we talked about – or reducing some of the space that the third generation rigs occupied the Quest is one where quite frankly we intend to upgrade the helideck for her to get her compliant with some of the recent regulations and then continue to market her and look at opportunities out there in that region.
The Apex is another rig where we continue to have activity in her pipeline.
We're not announcing anything new here today.
So that's another rig that – where we have I think some positive things happening in the background and when we have something more specific to talk about we'll bring that to you.
Inc.</span></strong> All right appreciate it.
Have a good one.
Our next question comes from Mark Brown of Global Hunter.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I was just wondering on the UK North Sea what your thoughts are on that market just on the Valiant that you just discussed? Is that likely to get extended when it completes its work with Premier and also the Guardian? Yeah.
This is Ron.
So in terms of Valiant she's got a two-well deal there with Premier.
We have a very good rapport with Premier as a customer and although we're not announcing something new here today we do think that good work I think ultimately leads to other good work.
And so we're pleased to work for Premier and I again think that Valiant has got a good future in what is a very tough market overall but even more so in the North Sea.
You asked I guess also about the Guardian.
She's with Shell through July of this year.
We don't have anything new to report here this morning.
But that's a rig that we think that we continue to put in front of customers for consideration.
So there are things in the pipeline that we're looking at but nothing that gets announced here today.
Thank you.
And then on the question of countercyclical acquisitions the commentary on the market seemed fairly bearish that it will get worse before it gets better and wanted to check when you think it would be worse enough that you would want to think that valuations have reached a point where you would be interested in buying some assets? Is there a valuation level or maybe a rough sense of when the timing would allow you to seriously think about making some asset acquisitions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Mark everything remains on the table today.
And from an entry point perspective this could include picking up distressed assets from the yards or a distressed asset without a contract.
There are assets available now but frankly the bid-ask spread is still too wide and we do have to consider the stacking cost in an oversupplied market especially as I've mentioned it does seem to be getting worse.
I also believe that current valuations of for example secured rig that (35:42) are still inflated and they do not reflect fair risk-adjusted discounts.
So we have not quite reached the sweet spot yet for entering a space where we're picking up assets on the cheap and that's for individual assets or even corporate acquisitions.
Despite the recent uptick in the oil price frankly if we are looking at a protracted downturn the high near-term EPS of some of the let's say highly leveraged players will drop as lucrative contracts play out.
And those for example like us with healthy balance sheets and the correct leverage for this market will then participate likely and consolidation moving forward.
So frankly put or frankly speaking I don't think the time is right right now.
And I think perhaps opportunity will present itself somewhat better further down the road.
But again let's not – I don't want to overplay my hand here and suggest that in 12 months' time we'll be successful in completing acquisitions of assets or companies.
However I do believe that now is not the time to enter the market specifically.
I think in the next 6 to12 months there will be better opportunity.
And just as one last follow-up is it safe to say that your focus would be on the floater side as opposed to the jack-up side that would more be fitting with your existing fleet.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The priority will be on the floater side but if opportunity presents itself we'll take a look at it from a specific basis.
But we are really looking at the floater market.
We think the floater market will be better positioned in terms of a recovery than the jack-up market moving forward.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Hi.
Thanks for the follow up.
Gary I was wondering if you could give us your first quarter CapEx split between newbuilds and other CapEx just to back out your remaining spending for the year.
Yeah Ian.
We had about $130 million of total CapEx $60 million of maintenance $70 million in the newbuild upgrade.
Okay.
And then it's early now but I don't know if you've looked at sort of contingency planning for the Rhino's idle gap next year if it's not contracted what you think it's – I guess it will be warm stacked – what that would look like if that's the outcome for half or more of next year in terms of your daily OpEx? Yeah.
Ian this is Ron.
That gap is something that we're clearly pretty well tuned into between two of our mainstay customers both of them by the way also want us to fill that gap.
So that's something we've got a lot of attention put on to and we intend to address just as hard as we can.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> So thank you for participating in the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Diamond Offshore's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
At this time all participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Woll Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I'll remind you that information reported on this call speaks only as of today and therefore you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay of this call.
In addition certain statements made during this call may be forward-looking in nature.
Those statements are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks and uncertainties many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by the statements.
These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed in our filings with the SEC including in our 10-K and 10-Q.
Further we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued earlier today and please note that the contents of our call today are covered by that disclosure.
And now I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
Allow me to begin by addressing what continues to be an anemic market for offshore drilling.
Although our industry is cyclical in nature we believe that any green shoots of a market recovery remain well over the horizon with industry fundamentals that today continue to look very challenging.
The ultra-deepwater market will remain weak due to the substantial number of rigs available for contracting the high sublet availability and the significant reduction in contracting opportunities.
Today floater utilization is at its lowest level in 10 years.
And during the quarter the industry experienced further examples of tenders being postponed or cancelled.
The industry also continues to see contracts terminated for convenience.
Despite these trends Diamond Offshore continues to secure new works beyond what its market share would suggest.
For example during the past four quarters Diamond Offshore has secured close to 25% of the available backlog despite owning less than 10% of the global floater fleet.
Moving specifically to this past quarter we had a number of important successes.
Our second and third newbuild drillships the Ocean BlackHornet and the Ocean BlackRhino began working in the Gulf of Mexico; and we have taken delivery of our fourth and final newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackLion which we expect to go on day rate towards the end of the year.
All four of these units will be working in the Gulf of Mexico at solid day rates where we will enjoy operational economies of scale.
Earlier today we also confirmed that the Ocean Apex has been signed for an 18-month job in Australia at a rate of $285 000 per day beginning in Q2 of 2016.
This represents a significant win in what is a very challenging market at a rate which validates our capital investment to enhance the rig.
Also included in our updated fleet status report is a blend and extend amendment to the Ocean BlackRhino in overall contract at a blended rate of $398 000 per day approximately seven months have been added to the term with a provider for a true-up payment in case of contract cancellation.
Our final newbuild still under contraction is the harsh environment semi the Ocean GreatWhite.
She will be delivered midyear 2016 which allows her to begin work in offshore Australia towards the end of the same year.
Given today's market conditions it is worth reemphasizing that all five of our newbuild assets will be delivered with long-term contracts in place stretching into 2019 and 2020.
Diamond Offshore has not had to delay the delivery of any of its newbuild assets.
In anticipation of newbuild completion payments recall that last year we increased our revolving credit facility to $1.5 billion.
We now have utilized the revolver for our final payment on the Ocean BlackLion and we expect to have borrowing capacity when in excess of the final completion payment on the Ocean GreatWhite in 2016.
So turning now to operations let me begin with our safety performance.
We have made steady progress this year further improving our safety record.
And during this past quarter we delivered the best quarterly safety performance in the history of the company.
As to equipment reliability our entire fleet experienced 82 days of unplanned equipment downtime which is a significant reduction from the prior quarter and this included the startup of two new drillships.
I think this measure along with safety performance is representative of the quality of our operations here at Diamond Offshore.
Our safety culture customer service focus quality of training and cost controls are amongst the best in the industry.
We are also starting to see the benefits of a 20% back office and corporate head count reduction implemented earlier in the year and we remain focused on minimizing the cost of assets as they become idle.
So let me now turn specifically to our financial results.
For the second quarter of 2015 earnings of $0.66 per share were up $0.01 versus the prior-year quarter of $0.65 per share.
Maintaining consistent earnings year over year in a challenging market reflects our ongoing efforts to reduce costs; and Gary will provide further details shortly.
There were two additional key drivers which were essentially offsetting.
Since the second quarter of last year we have cold-stacked 10 rigs and sold six.
However the associated loss of earnings was mostly replaced by our newbuilds entering service along with other high-spec assets returning to work.
These include: the three newbuild drillships that have gone on ticket the Ocean Apex which began working in Q1 after its shipyard delivery the Ocean Valiant and Ocean Patriot which both went to work in the North Sea after completing significant upgrades; the start of the Ocean Victory's two-year term in Trinidad; and finally the Ocean Endeavor which began work after a lengthy and complicated mobilization into the Black Sea.
As to the rest of the fleet allow me to give an update on some contract fixtures as well as the status of some specific rigs.
So starting with PEMEX last quarter we disclosed that PEMEX had verbally informed us of their intention to terminate the drilling contracts on four rigs the Ocean Ambassador Ocean Nugget Ocean Summit and the Ocean Lexington which was scheduled to begin work in September.
We later received written notices of termination on drilling contracts on the Nugget and the Summit.
The Nugget went off rate in early June and has being mobilized to the U.S.
Gulf where she is now cold-stacked.
PEMEX subsequently reversed course on the Summit and elected to keep the rig and extend the contract until late August at a reduced rate of $75 000 per day down from $86 000 per day.
Once this contract concludes it is our expectation that the Summit will be cold-stacked.
For the Ocean Lexington PEMEX has delivered a notice to initiate cancellation of the contract and this process is currently underway.
Most likely we expect to begin cold-stacking the Lexington in the near future.
And finally both the Ocean Scepter and the Ocean Ambassador had their day rates lowered to $115 000 per day.
And we expect that they will complete their existing contract terms which end in March of 2016.
Consistent with our previous disclosures during the second quarter of 2015 we also received written notification from Petrobras to terminate the contract on the Ocean Baroness.
This was effective as of May 31; and she's currently demobilized into the Gulf of Mexico where she will be cold-stacked until market conditions improve.
So with that I will now hand the call over to Gary to give further color on the financials and then I will have some closing remarks.
Gary? Thanks Marc.
As always I'll give a little color on this past quarter's results and then cover what's to be expected for the upcoming quarter.
For the quarter just ended we reported after-tax net income of $90 million or $0.66 per share.
This net income compares to a net loss of $256 million or $1.86 per share reported in the year's first quarter.
Last quarter's loss was primarily driven by an impairment write-down and restructuring cost which when combined negatively impacted after-tax earnings by $2.36 per share.
Contract drilling revenues increased from $600 million in Q1 to $617 million in Q2 despite a number of rigs rolling off contract and failing to secure follow-on work as a result of the depressed market conditions in our industry.
This increase in revenues from Q1 to Q2 can be partially attributed to our newbuild drillships the Ocean BlackHornet and BlackRhino both which began contracts in the Gulf of Mexico in the second quarter.
In addition several other rigs returned to work in the quarter namely the Ocean Victory and Ocean Onyx in Trinidad and the Ocean Valiant in the North Sea.
And finally as Marc has already pointed out unplanned downtime was significantly lower than in the first quarter which helped contribute to the overall increase in contract drilling revenue.
Moving on to the other lines on the income statement.
First contract drilling expenses for the quarter came in at $343 million which was below our guidance of $350 million to $370 million that we gave out in our last earnings conference call.
A strong U.S.
dollar particularly in Brazil helped us to come in below our guidance but the primary factor contributing to favorable expense results was that we executed on our cost saving initiatives.
These include targets that we set for ourselves to quickly reduce cost on rigs that rolled off contracts and controlling cost on operating rigs.
As I've stated in prior earnings calls after safety cost controls and efficiencies have been and will remain among our top goals.
Next depreciation and interest expense at $123 million and $25 million respectively for Q2 came in within our guidance.
With regards to the G&amp;A expense we reduced our guidance last quarter as a result of cost-cutting measures introduced earlier in the year.
I'm happy to report that those cost-cutting measures are paying off; and at $17 million G&amp;A cost this past quarter came in within our revised guidance.
Moreover G&amp;A costs this quarter were down 20% from Q2 2014.
And finally our tax rate at 14.8% also was within our guidance range of 11% to 16%.
Now for a look at some of the items that will affect our financial performance in the upcoming quarter.
As always downtime for surveys other shipyard projects mobes et cetera will affect not only revenue numbers but also contract drilling costs.
That said we have a minimal number of rigs that will be affected by scheduled downtime days in Q3.
For the details I refer to our Quarterly Rig Status Report that was filed this morning.
We expect rig operating cost as reported in the line Contract Drilling Expense to be slightly down in this upcoming third quarter.
Ongoing rig costs are decreasing as a result of our efforts to reduce costs as I've already discussed.
In addition costs will be lowered as a result of rigs that have recently gone stacked or will be stacked in the third quarter.
However these savings will be partially offset by higher mobe costs incurred in Q3 as we relocate several rigs to stacked locations.
Also in Q3 we will incur a whole quarter of operating expenses on our drillship the BlackRhino which began its contract in the Gulf of Mexico at the very end of Q2.
When taking all these pluses and minuses into account we expect contract drilling expense for the third quarter to fall to between $320 million and $340 million.
As always I'll remind everyone that I've been talking about the line on our income statement Contract Drilling Expenses.
These numbers that I've just given you do not include costs incurred in the line Reimbursable Expenses.
Reimbursable expenses whatever the amount incurred will be offset almost dollar-for-dollar with additional reimbursable revenues.
With regard to other items on the income statement we are now expecting depreciation expense to come in between $116 million and $120 million in Q3 and Q4 just slightly lower than our last quarter's guidance.
However G&amp;A guidance remains the same at $16 million to $18 million per quarter as does interest expense at $25 million to $30 million per quarter for the final two quarters of 2015.
As for taxes based on current projections we believe our tax rate will come in somewhere between 10% and 16% in both Q3 and Q4.
Any changes to the geographic mix in the sources of earnings as well as tax assessments or settlements or movements in exchange rates will impact our effective tax rate.
And finally moving on to our capital expenditure guidance.
We are reiterating our CapEx projections that we gave in our last quarterly update estimating that we will spend $290 million on maintenance CapEx in 2015 and $630 million in newbuild CapEx which includes a final 70% shipyard payment for our fourth newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackLion which was delivered in Q2; oversight cost on the Ocean GreatWhite; final cost on the BlackHornet and BlackRhino drillships which I previously began term contracts in the Gulf here in the second quarter; and finally the completion cost for the service life extension project on the Ocean Confidence.
Together maintenance and newbuild capital expenditures are expected to total approximately $920 million in 2015.
And with that I'll turn it back to Marc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Gary.
Since our last conference call we've not seen any indicators that the market is improving.
Indeed the market continues to track down.
There is nothing to suggest otherwise to the thesis that there will be a significant oversupply of drilling capacity well into 2017.
In reaction to the lack of tendering activity our competitors have delayed delivery of many newbuild drillships; in some cases by two years or more.
Unfortunately this does not eliminate capacity.
It is merely a form of the extended financing from the shipyards and will likely delay the market distress that would otherwise create asset buying opportunities.
But as I've said in prior quarters our market research suggests the deepwater production will remain to be a critical and growing component of total global energy supply.
We are in a cyclical business; and in the due course of time our clients priorities will shift back towards deepwater production and reserve replacement.
The decline in supply chain costs will help project economics and supply and demand will come into balance.
Diamond Offshore remains well-positioned with our conservative capitalization and strong liquidity.
As always we will continue to focus on conducting safe operations delivering quality performance for our clients rationalizing costs and utilizing our capital efficiently.
And with that we will now take your questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Sean Meakim of JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Sean.
I just want to start off talking about the newbuilds in the Gulf of Mexico.
How has the performance been thus far in terms of maintenance relative to expectations thinking about the budget just thinking about how long of a break-in period do you anticipate before you get up to say 95%-plus on the operating efficiency? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks for the question Sean.
Let me be specific around the BlackRhino which started work during the quarter.
Straight out of the traps the Rhino delivered on its first well by bringing it in $25 million below the AFE and 30 days faster than the drilling curve had planned for the well.
We spend a lot of time and effort in project costs as we ramp up to deliver these units for our clients here in the Gulf of Mexico.
So we've actually had quite a lot of success in bringing these units out from the yards and putting them to work quite quickly.
The two drillships that we have working for Anadarko are also delivering a similar performance.
So when it relates to getting these newbuild rigs to work we don't appear to have any issues.
They come out of the traps and their efficiency is pretty good from the off.
Okay that's good to hear.
And then can you give us a little more detail on the plans for the Ocean Confidence? Are there any repairs or upgrades that you're looking at for some of the moored semis that are coming off contract in the second half of the year? Sean this is Ron.
Good morning.
In terms of the Confidence she's just wrapping up of course her upgrade period there in the shipyard.
We are bidding her into a few opportunities across a few geographies.
Although it's fair to say that the high-spec DP market is pretty well supplied utilization I think will have to tighten up a lot before she gets a lot of traction and we'll have to make a decision I think later this year about her future.
But we do intend to bid her into several opportunities here later this year.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Luis of Credit Suisse.
Thank you and good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Greg.
Just touching back on the BlackRhino again you have the potential extension as you read through the note whether Murphy decides to go forward with that or not.
Was that something that Murphy approached Diamond or Diamond approached Murphy about plugging that gap before the rig then goes to work with Hess? Greg this is Ron I think that was probably best described as a mutually shared conversation.
They have a need we have a need and we were able to match those together.
Okay.
And then just are there other opportunities just given where that rate came in at? Is that a sign to other potential customers that have rigs with you guys that maybe hey these blend and extends could be beneficial for you on rate savings and us on keeping our rigs working through what is as everyone mentioned on the call a pretty challenging market? Again this is Ron.
I think that certainly trading rate and term is a popular and well known I think commercial technique in this part of the cycle.
We've done that with a number of operators.
I wouldn't I think draw too broad a conclusion off of this work.
This represents an important gap filling measure that we took between two important customers.
So I think it fit this particular situation very well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So let me just come in here and just talk about the supply of six-gen assets in the market right now.
I think there is a perception that the market for six-gen assets will become balanced simply because they will replace the older less capable rigs but we don't believe that's necessarily correct.
From a rig supply perspective we subscribe to the theory that there are simply too many high-spec drillships looking for work.
They will be able to compete down with the lower spec fifth-generation assets.
But we've started work with the Monarch in Australia so we believe capable units do have a future.
In other words there remains a market for moored rigs in shallow environments.
We've just demonstrated that in my prepared remarks.
So in terms of closing the gap between the Hess contracts and the end of the Rhino contract with Murphy we do feel that it's important to take whatever is out there and make sure that the rig stays working in this market.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Thanks good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Ian.
Marc it was an interesting comment at the beginning how you've seemingly been taking share with the limited backlog that's been on offer.
Trade secrets notwithstanding do you have any strategy that you think explains that? Do you think that you've been more realistic on price? Do you think you've been winning contracts on price or do you think that there have been other soft criteria in your bids that have helped you prevail in this tough market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> To answer your question yes without giving trade secrets away.
We've taken a look at how we approach commercialization and the marketing of our rigs and we've gone to somewhat of a more formal supply chain philosophy in that regard and I'll leave it with that.
Suffice to say we think that we're being very successful in understanding what our clients' needs truly are moving forward and then that's made us punch above our weight in terms of contracting.
And Ian I'll leave it at that.
Okay.
The Apex contract is a welcome development and a couple of your competitors also alluded to I guess a pocket of relative demand strength in that market on the calls last week.
Do you think that there are any legs more broadly in the Southeast Asia and Australian market to consume more of these moored rigs on term going forward or do you think that again you may have had the advantage of being the early mover there? Ian this is Ron.
I think there is I think a valid observation.
There's been marginally more activity more commercial activity in Asia in the past several months.
But I've got to tell you that that's a long way off from extrapolating further out on a broader trend.
I think there are some attractive rates that certainly have some customers some operators interested.
There are some programs that has some time boundaries on them and also I think generate some activity but I would stop kind of well short of extrapolating out that line too far.
Fair enough.
And then if I could squeeze in one more.
Gary I know we'll get the 10-Q but just curious I wanted to semi-check the CapEx.
We're expecting most of that $920 million with the biggest quarter to be Q2.
And I wanted to confirm that with you just from my cash flow estimates in the back half that the majority of the CapEx is behind the sale for this year.
That's right Ian.
We had almost $500 million I think $480 million of CapEx; of that $400 million was the newbuild.
Again the big payment on the Lion.
So you're correct.
Okay thanks a bunch.
Our next question comes from the line of Jud Bailey of Wells Fargo.
Thanks good morning.
Question on the North Sea.
I'd be curious to get your perspective.
You disclosed a short-term contract on the Guardian.
That's a market that's actually held in a little bit better considering the commodity price than we would have thought and it seems like you've got a number of these smaller E&amp;Ps taking some one-well contracts here and there.
Do you see that is something that can continue into 2016 or is that a market given where the oil price is do you think we could see another round of weakness as we head into next year? Jud this is Ron.
I think you're right.
We have seen I think a little bit of activity that I would describe as smaller scope shorter-term work.
And I think if you look at operators they'll view that as more conservative bets to place in the market right now.
So I think you're right we will be playing for some shorter term work.
But I also wouldn't go out too far and extrapolate what that means for 2016.
We've had good success with the Guardian on some short work and that's attracting more interest from other operators with the Premier.
We also had good success with the Valiant.
But I think about those rigs probably working on shorter term projects with some I think utilization to solve for in between.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So let me just put a little bit of extra color on here if I may.
As I've said before not all assets are created equally.
During this past quarter as I said in my prepared remarks we have seen four of our seven fourth-gen rigs commence operations on a new contract.
So in terms of life in the market vis-à-vis fixtures that are out there we're actually seeing quite a bit of noise around assets that aren't necessarily sixth-gen the latest high-tech units.
India being one of those examples Yeah sure in the North Sea I agree that the terms are shorter than we've traditionally secured.
And of course they're at low rates.
But this demonstrates that there still a bonafide market for these assets.
So we're very keyed into the North Sea and other markets like Australia where not necessarily the sixth-gen assets have a home.
So we remain optimistic that our fleet is actually quite well prepared to go into this further downturn in the market and continue to punch above our weight in terms of securing contracts.
Okay thank you for that.
And then my follow-up is I guess directed towards Ron regarding the Confidence.
I think you said you're bidding that rig on a couple of opportunities.
And if I kind of understand you correctly I guess you're looking at a few live opportunities for this year but if those don't pan out you may have to make a decision later in the year on whether or not to cold-stack that rig.
Am I interpreting your comments correctly? I think that's a fair broad way to describe where we are.
I think there is some work that we're looking with her but in all candor we'll have to make a call I think later in 2015 on will that work hit or do we have to shift gears to minimize cost.
Got it.
Thank you I'll turn it back.
Our next question comes from the line of James West of Evercore ISI.
Hi this is Samantha actually.
I have a question about the Apex.
It seems like the tender was initially as far as I understood it was for a February start.
Is there an opportunity to start that new Woodside contract a little bit earlier? And if not what's the outlook for maybe filling in some of that gap? This is Ron.
Thanks for that question here.
You're right that the start date did move to the right slightly here on the calendar; and we of course work with our customers routinely adjusting commencement windows based on their needs.
So if that need changes we will be prepared to meet that.
I think filing in the gap between where we are now and the start of that work that would be somewhat challenging.
We're looking at some potential things to examine but candidly that will be a hard gap to fill in.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from line of J.B.
Lowe of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hey good morning guys.
I just had a quick question on the rigs that you have stacked currently.
First can you guys kind of give us an idea of how much your stacked fleet collectively is costing you on a daily basis? And then secondly is there any thought of I knew you guys have scrapped some rigs previously.
Is there any thought of moving some of those stacked rigs and going ahead and retiring some of them completely? I'll answer the question J.B.
on the cost then turn it over to Marc on strategy.
We've got 11 rigs that are cold-stacked right now and it varies in cost but nothing is more than $5 000 a day probably on average $2 500 a day; and a big part of that is insurance on the rigs.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And we're always reviewing the market and assessing our options J.B.
Every quarter we look at the fleet and determine whether we should impair assets based on market fundamentals.
This past quarter of course we did not see the necessity to further impair or scrap assets.
And we undertake this review every quarter and we'll do the same review on a quarterly basis moving forward.
All right thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita of UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Angie.
Hi.
So Marc in regards to just a quickie on the remark you made a little bit late on the call on the six-gen markets not becoming balanced and obviously there's a perception that it will and you're saying otherwise which I agree.
So how do you think this will play out in 2017 and beyond? Do you think that the unestablished contractors don't get contract for the rigs? Or that or that some of these sixth-gens are now in the fourth-gen and fifth-gen markets or how does this play out do you think? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Lots of people are saying Angie that the scrapping and rigs leaving the market is the solution here.
I don't necessarily subscribe to that but sure more scrapping is needed but this is not simply a supply issue alone.
You've got to look at it from a demand perspective which is currently at historical lows too.
I think there's been 20 contracts announced so far this year year-to-date compared with well over 125 contracts in 2014.
And I think there's well over 200 contracts in the prior year to that.
So you have to look at it in terms of scrapping across all floater categories not just second-gen and third-gen.
We'll need to see a number of fourth-generation and fifth-generation assets go too.
So one of the things that Diamond is very good at is we've got a very good maintenance record on our older assets.
And as I've said before not all assets are created equally.
And I'd just bring you back to the point that in this past quarter we've had four of our fourth-generation assets start work on new contracts.
Okay they're lower rates and they are shorter duration but it just goes to show that there's a market out there for certain fourth-generation assets.
So the sixth-gens won't be able to compete with them.
I think what you're going to see is the sixth-gens competing down into the fifth-gen market and that's probably the area that's at most risk.
But again we've just seen the Monarch the Ocean Monarch which is a fifth-gen asset go to work in Australia so it's still going to be horses for courses in certain markets.
But I think the sixth-gen fleet is going to see a lot of distress moving forward.
If you look at the 77 floaters that are on order 57 of which are under construction only 28 of those are contracted.
So it's going to be a very competitive market moving forward which is why it was so important at the time for us to get all our sixth-gen assets contracted for the next three-plus years moving forward.
So that space is going to be very interesting as we track through what is going to be an extended downturn.
That's very helpful.
So then if you think through the sixth-gens that are coming into the market that are uncontracted obviously the unestablished players are most at risk as far as not receiving a contract but it would change based on – and I agree on the demand side the demand is simply not there – that even established contractors won't be receiving contracts either.
There are teething problems with the new rig and the demand is simply not there so the push out beyond 2017 could continue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that's an interesting thought process an interesting view of the future.
When we bring our sixth-generation assets into the market we prepare them extremely well.
I mentioned the success we've had with the Rhino.
It came out of the traps and frankly knocked the ball out of the park.
We don't necessarily see that with others in this marketplace.
And there are 164 ultra-deepwater assets out there and I think utilization today is about 83%.
If you go down to the fourth-gen assets there's much fewer in the market.
I think there are about 40-plus in that space.
Sure the utilization in the fourth-generation assets is lower.
But as we were asked I think by Ian earlier in the call do we have a secret sauce as it relates to how we are able to interface with our clients I can't say we do but we do seem to be better at it than others.
So for now we still are very very comfortable in terms of where we sit from a fleet perspective and the opportunities that we see going forward.
So sure a lot of people are pushing deliveries of sixth-generation assets out by two years.
But I don't think in that particular sub-segment of the market it's going to be balanced within the next two years.
It's going to be a long hard drawn-out fight for the sixth-generation assets.
All right thanks.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Theo Meryanos of Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Good morning and thank you.
All things being equal do you have any visibility on how far along Diamond is on rate revisions with its customers? This is Ron.
Clearly we work with our customers routinely on their needs as it shifts over time.
We do certainly respect and our customers do as well the integrity of contracts.
But if there's a way for us to perhaps get something of mutual interest in the way of additional work we do work with our customers accordingly.
We've got I think a pretty good track record built up.
And perhaps part of our secret sauce that Marc had mentioned that we find a way to find solutions with operators that have sort of challenging needs here.
So we're open to mutually I think beneficial trades but certainly expect that contracts will be respected.
Fair enough.
And can you guys just speak to what factors influenced the increase in contract drilling expense for the Deepwater segment this quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me look at that real quick.
The biggest things were the two drillships going to work the Hornet and the Rhino – I'm sorry I should've know that.
Okay I thought they would be in the ultra-deepwater category but my apologies.
Great that does it for me.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Praveen Narra of Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Praveen hi.
Inc.</span></strong> A question on how you think about M&amp;A now? You guys sound like you're expecting a bit longer than you had before going into 2017 in terms of the imbalance.
So how big is that gap and is it at least closing in terms of the bid-ask spreads and how you approach M&amp;A from here? The bid/ask spread is still very very wide in terms of specific strategy options moving forward.
Our plans continue to evolve as the market somewhat develops.
And capital allocation is of course very very important for us as an executive management team; and anything we do has to build long-term value for shareholders.
So specifically to your question here one of the five basic principles of value creation is knowing the true value of assets and being prepared to take the right action at the right time.
But with that in mind I believe today that the arbitrage between the buyer and the seller expectation is simply too wide it's too high; and that the market will present better opportunities further down the road.
Well let me just say at the same time I also believe that there are other issues in our industry that that are going to be addressed to be the value chain.
And from a strategic perspective we're looking at exploring ideas in that regards as well.
So it's not just an M&amp;A strategy moving forward there's other things we can do.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Our final question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte of Guggenheim.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Marc if I could ask you to compare and contrast your experiences with attrition in the onshore market versus how you see the fifth and sixth-gen floater market unfolding here over the next four or five years? And specifically I think we all tend to think about the bigger deepwater assets as really being around forever but is there a risk that rigs that never go to work that the stacked cost and the reactivation on the DP units et cetera just becomes too much so that those rigs actually never find work and we find ourselves in another bid cycle before we know it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Very good question.
This is very different to the experience that I have in unconventionals and pressure pumping in the onshore market.
I entered the industry well over 30 years ago – sorry Mike.
So I might.
And I believe that in terms of this market moving forward it's going to be long and drawn out.
I would be surprised if there are assets out there that never to go work but what will happen as those assets will become distressed; and I think the owners of those will look at shifting them and moving them onto others.
So in essence if you've got a buyer out there that can buy an asset of sixth-gen drillship for a substantial discount then the economics change on the project and you're able to then price that asset accordingly into the market moving forward.
So how long can you stack these assets? There are some people that have come up with new rates for stacking that really is taking the asset down to a level that it would take quite a bit to bring it back up to speed.
So I would be surprised if certain assets never work the project economics will change if they become distressed; and then you could probably put them to work at a different day rate.
Okay thanks so much.
And ladies and gentlemen we've reached the allotted time for questions and answers today.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> So thank you very much folks for attending the session today.
I would like to thank you for participating in the call and we will look forward to speaking to you next time around.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's Diamond Offshore's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to Diamond Offshore's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode.
Following this morning's remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
We do ask that while you pose your questions that you please pick up on your handset to allow optimal sound quality.
Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maria.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Woll Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I'll remind you that information reported on this call speaks only as of today and therefore you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay of this call.
In addition certain statements made during this call may be forward-looking in nature.
Those statements are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks and uncertainties many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by the statements.
These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed in our filings with the SEC including our 10-K and 10-Q filings.
Further we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued earlier today.
And please note that the contents of our call today are covered by that disclosure.
And now I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call this morning.
Today we are pleased to report solid third quarter results.
We recorded earnings of $0.99 per share for the quarter versus an impairment impacted $0.38 per share in the third quarter of 2014.
Gary will drill down on the numbers shortly.
But in summary I can characterize our results as reflecting our ability to execute as it relates to both the operational performance of our fleet as well as on controlling costs.
So allow me to first address the performance of our fleet.
During the third quarter our three drillships working in the Gulf of Mexico the Ocean BlackHawk Ocean BlackHornet and the Ocean BlackRhino together delivered a combined operating efficiency of 99.3%.
In other words these rigs have come out of the yard and immediately gone straight to the top of our client's rig performance rankings.
This is class leading and is an example of the Diamond difference.
By focusing on project delivery to include our state-of-the-art in-house training center and systems these brand-new vessels have surpassed our client's expectations and provided an exceptional revenue uptime for the third quarter.
As previously announced recall that the Ocean BlackRhino delivered its first well 30 days ahead of the drilling curve.
Similar performance is being delivered by the other Black ships and we expect more of the same across the rest of our fleet as our fourth and final newbuild drillship goes on contract with Hess near the turn of the year and starts contributing revenue for Diamond Offshore.
So the ability to execute from a top line perspective is only part of the solution and what is rapidly becoming the most severe downturn for many decades.
So while continuing to invest in training maintenance and safety we are also laser-focused on cost control.
Earlier this year we announced plans to control costs aggressively and we took a charge related to restructuring and employee separation costs.
We have taken the difficult steps of reducing variable pay and benefit throughout the company.
And we have significantly reduced head count at onshore bases and at corporate facilities including our Houston office.
As we entered 2015 having secured what became the last significant term contract available for our final two newbuild drillships at $400 000 per day we embarked on a strategic review of our cost structure.
Following execution of this strategic plan at the end of Q1 the full benefit of such a cost reduction has now fallen through to the bottom line and is positively impacting results.
As our Q3 numbers illustrate we have been successful in reducing our corporate expense SG&amp;A and overheads by over 20% and continuing rig-based wage expense by in excess of 15%.
Many of you will understand salaries and wages form the majority of our rig operating expense.
As we embark on our 2016 budget planning cycle we are continuing to look for additional ways to positively impact the company's cash flow.
These are difficult measures for any organization.
But against this backdrop we remain as focused as ever on continuously improving our safety performance.
Earlier this year we delivered the best quarterly safety performance in the history of the company and we remain on track to deliver our best ever annual performance.
So now turning to the market.
We all know our industry is cyclical.
But as we have been saying for a considerable period of time this will be a long and a hard downturn the likes of which we have not seen for decades.
And over 12 months ago here at Diamond we took the initial steps to prepare accordingly.
We initiated a head count reduction.
We increased our revolver.
We were the first driller to retire assets in this cycle and of course we worked hard to successfully secure the Hess term contract for our last two drillships.
The recovery in deepwater drilling remains well over the horizon and any green shoots that would indicate that the market is turning are a very long way out.
However allow me to suggest that as anemic as the market is we see more activity in contracting rigs for mid-water than we do for the sixth-generation drillships an asset class that will remain heavily oversupplied.
This trend is apparent when examining the rise in the number of mid-water exploration drilling plan that's issued year-to-date here in the Gulf of Mexico at the expense of ultra-deepwater permits.
So staying with mid-water today we have confirmed that the Ocean Guardian has been signed for a one-year term in the North Sea beginning in March of 2016 at a rate of $220 000 per day.
This is a very attractive contract in a very competitive market.
And while we do have a GAAP price to the commencement of work we will minimize controllable cost during the warm stack period.
Further our client has agreed to pay a portion of the daily warm stack costs prior to contract startup.
Additionally we announced this morning that we have reached agreement with Petrobras to end the contracts on the Ocean Alliance and the Ocean Clipper as of October the 30 while concurrently adding 875 days of new term to the Ocean Courage at a rate of $380 000 per day extending the contract term into mid-2020.
The existing three-year terms on the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor will remain at a rate of $455 000 per day and a new term added to the Ocean Courage represents a backlog addition of $333 million.
While we have ended contracts early for two rigs one of which by merely two months we have added a net backlog of approximately $242 million.
In other words for every $1 of backlog that we gave away we have received an additional $3.50 in return.
And we have maintained our dayrate for the remaining sixth-gen assets working for Petrobras.
So finally allow me to share my observations from a visit which I made this past quarter to the Ocean Monarch as she was just commencing work in Australia.
I am aware that Petrodata reports this rig as being of a 1974 vintage.
Of course the original hull was laid at that time but I can assure you that neither we nor our client would agree with this characterization.
The Monarch was redelivered from the yard in 2008 effectively as the new ultra-deepwater rig with an entirely new derrick drilling package and crew quarters.
We have added sponsons to the hull that have vastly increased all of the rigs' key capabilities such as water depth hook-load and variable deck load.
We have replaced much of this deal and the entire accommodation so that even small details such as the electric cabling are all new.
To the layperson it doesn't even look the same in terms of dimension and size.
This is an extremely capable rig in excellent shape and our client could not agree more.
The reason I bring this up is to reiterate that not all offshore drilling projects will be carried out by six-gen drillships.
The conventionally moored assets that remain in the worldwide fleet will continue to offer the technologies that are needed in our client's operational portfolios for many years to come.
Yes we have scrapped 10 of our less-capable semi-submersible over the past year and many more have been scrapped across the industry.
I think we will continue to see a bifurcation between the most complex projects requiring the newest generation assets and the large bulk of projects for which moored rigs are the most cost-effective solution.
Diamond Offshore has a very good maintenance record on the assets in our portfolio.
And when demand comes back we think it will be across both ends of the spectrum to include the fourth-gen moored assets.
With this in mind I would not swap my fleet my balance sheet nor my employees for any others.
I will now hand over the call to Gary to give further color on the financials and then I will have some closing remarks.
Gary? Thanks Marc.
As always I will give a little color on this past quarter's results and then cover what is expected for the upcoming quarter.
For the quarter just ended we reported after-tax net income of $136 million or $0.99 per share.
This compares to net income of $90 million or $0.66 per share reported in the previous quarter.
The increase in earnings quarter-over-quarter was mainly driven by a significant decrease in rig operating cost of which Marc has already discussed.
I'll give a little more detail on that in a moment.
Contract drilling revenues decreased from $617 million in Q2 to $599 million in Q3 primarily as a result of a number of rigs rolling off contract and failing to secure follow-on work due to the continuing depressed market conditions in our industry.
These decreases were partially offset by a couple of rigs securing new work specifically the Ocean Monarch which began an 18-month contract in Australia in Q3 and the Ocean Victory which began its new two-year contract with BP in Trinidad in the second quarter and earned a full quarter's revenue in Q3.
Also our third drillship the Ocean BlackRhino worked the entire quarter after beginning its initial contract with Murphy Oil and Gas in mid Q2.
In addition as Marc has already pointed out revenues in Q3 were aided by excellent uptime on our high-spec rigs as our three new drillships operating in the Gulf of Mexico had better than 99% paid uptime.
But our two six-generation semis working for Petrobras in Brazil the Ocean Courage and Ocean Valor also turned in exceptional performances combining for a 98% paid uptime percentage for the quarter.
When taken together our five active six-gen floaters were on payroll and earning dayrate for 98.8% of the time during the third quarter of 2015.
Moving on to the other lines on the income statement.
First contract drilling expenses for the quarter came in at $278 million which was substantially below our guidance of $320 million to $340 million that we gave out in our last earnings conference call.
A strong U.S.
dollar particularly in Brazil was responsible for a portion of this favorable variance.
But as Marc has previously stated the primary factor contributing to our favorable expense results was that we executed on cost saving initiatives even above our expectations.
These include targets that we set for ourselves to quickly reduce costs on rigs that rolled off contracts and controlling costs on operating rigs.
We anticipate that we will continue these cost efficiencies on an ongoing basis and that will be reflected in my Q4 cost guidance that I'll give in a moment.
As I've stated in prior earnings calls after safety cost controls and efficiencies have been and will remain among our top goals.
Next depreciation and G&amp;A expense at $118 million and $17 million respectively for Q3 came in within our guidance.
Interest expense of $22 million for Q3 2015 came in slightly below our guidance as a result of our ability to take a $3.5 million credit to that line on the income statement.
This was due to the statute of limitations expiring in Q3 on a tax reserve related to a prior year that we've previously booked.
And finally our tax rate at 14.6% also was within our guidance range of 10% to 16%.
Now for a look at some of the items that will affect our financial performance in the upcoming quarter.
Reflecting our ongoing cost savings initiatives we expect rig operating costs to decrease for the fifth consecutive quarter.
In Q4 we expect to report contract drilling expense between $255 million and $275 million.
This includes approximately $10 million to mobilize the Ocean Onyx and Ocean Alliance back to the Gulf of Mexico.
Offsetting that will be reduction in cost from the Ocean Baroness which is now cold-stacked in the U.S.
Gulf.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line on our income statement contract drilling expenses.
These numbers that I've just given you do not include costs incurred in the line reimbursable expenses.
Reimbursable expenses whatever the amount incurred will be offset almost dollar for dollar with additional reimbursable revenues.
With regard to the other items on the income statement we are again expecting depreciation expense to come in between $116 million and $120 million in Q4 and G&amp;A expense to also remain at between $16 million to $18 million this quarter.
Interest expense should rebound back to $25 million to $27 million as we don't anticipate any unusual adjustments in Q4.
As for taxes based on current projections we believe our tax rate for the fourth quarter will come in somewhere between 12% and 16%.
Of course any changes to the geographic mix and the source of earnings as well as tax assessments or settlements or movements in exchange rates will impact or effective tax rate.
And finally moving on to our capital expenditure guidance.
We are slightly reducing our CapEx projections that we gave in our last quarterly update estimating that we will now spend $280 million on maintenance CapEx in 2015 and $630 million in newbuild CapEx which includes: the final 70% shipyard payment for our fourth newbuild drillship the Ocean BlackLion which was delivered in Q2; oversight costs for the Ocean GreatWhite along with several other projects completed during the current year.
Together maintenance and newbuild capital expenditures are expected to total approximately $910 million in 2015.
And with that I'll turn it back to Marc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Gary.
Because of the severe downturn and demand for offshore drilling services the rating agency Moody's recently downgraded most of the companies in our sector and we are all collectively on negative outlook.
However Diamond Offshore remains investment grade at Baa2 and we share the highest credit rating within the offshore drilling space.
Additionally during the past quarter we extended our revolving credit facility by one year to 2020 and we are positioned currently with a revenue backlog totaling approximately $5.7 billion.
We continue to hold the view that the market will be characterized by a significant oversupply of six-generation drilling capacity well into 2017 and possibly beyond.
But Diamond Offshore remains well positioned with our conservative capitalization strong liquidity and backlog profile.
We will continue to execute on conducting safe operations delivering quality performance for our clients rationalizing costs and utilizing our capital efficiently.
And with that we will now take your questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Sean Meakim of JPMorgan.
Hey.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Sean.
So I was just hoping to talk a little bit more about the improvement that you guys saw in terms of operating performance 3Q over 2Q.
Does this indicate that the break-in period has already run its course and from here while it's not a given you'd expect the performance in 3Q to be mostly sustainable going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
The performance and the cost improvement that we've seen Sean is sustainable moving forward.
This isn't a one-off.
As I said in my prepared remarks we embarked on a strategic cost review well over 12 months ago.
We implemented it in Q1 and now we are seeing the benefit of those actions taken earlier in the year so that the 15% improvement in rig-based salaries and wages is sustainable.
In fact we put over 15%.
And of course the improvement in SG&amp;A overheads corporate expense of 20% is sustainable.
And as Gary gave guidance into Q4 this will be the fifth consecutive quarter of improving costs.
So it is sustainable.
This is not a one-off.
No it's definitely been impressive.
Just thinking about with the Ocean Guardian announcement how would you characterize negotiations in terms of pricing? Is there anything kind of specific to that contract in terms of its location type of work that it's doing that you think helps contribute to where things shook out in terms of dayrate? Yeah.
Sean this Ron.
The work there with the Guardian with Dana I think was a good outcome for us.
Dana of course had some more work required to get done and we're glad that we could propose a rig and are right on schedule which worked for them.
So I think overall that was a largely I think positive outcome for us.
Okay.
And then I guess just the last question for me just thinking about the outcome with Petrobras would you be able to characterize your current situation as being relatively de-risked in terms of opportunities for further renegotiations or are they still – is the go forward still somewhat uncertain for parts of the fleet? Yeah.
Sean again this is Ron here.
I think I'd agree with that broad characterization.
I think the Petrobras renegotiation was a widely recognized force that we had to work our way through.
In the end we were able to meet needs that we have meet needs that Petrobras had and take aside I think a large I think negotiations to do for us.
I think that was probably the biggest I think nail to pound back in the board.
All right.
Understood.
Thanks.
Appreciate the detail.
Our next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my question.
The question relates around some of the rigs that are still idle but not stacked or cold stacked like the Quest America Confidence you continue to market them.
Do you see any near-term opportunities or should we assume that in a few months you may reconsider and stack those rigs? Yeah.
This is Ron here.
I think those questions make a lot of sense.
If you look at the certainly the Quest that's a rig which has done well for us in the past.
But quite candidly with the oversupply in the market I think that's going to be a while before she goes back to work.
So from a modeling point of view I think we'll see I think a lower utilization in 2016.
The America has undergoing some safety upgrades right now and we have no announcements today but we continue to market her and I think we'll promote her good reputation in Asia and Australia.
The Confidence – that is a tough one.
We have been and continued to talk to operators about their interest in the Confidence.
We're not making any announcements today of course.
But candidly we acknowledge it's going to be tough to contract her with a surplus of sixth-gen drillships in the market.
We kept her cost to a minimum and we'll make – I think a more permanent call about marketing her versus stacking her in Q4.
Okay.
And then on the rigs that are cold stack you have quite a few rigs now cold stacked why not retire them now? Why keep them in the stacked category? Well Waqar there's always an option on some of these rigs that is worth keeping for some time in the future.
We'll make further decisions as to what we do with these rigs down the road but as I've expressed before every quarter we look at whether we need to take an impairment or not.
And suffice to say during this quarter we elected not to take a further impairment as it stands today.
We'll relook at it in the next quarter.
And what would be the book value for these cold-stacked rigs? It's in the order of approximately $0.5 billion I would think.
Okay.
I don't have the exact number.
Okay.
And then just last question on any M&amp;A opportunities either for single assets or for companies.
You have a pretty good balance sheet.
You could be a national acquirer of assets.
So what are you thinking along those lines? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Another good question Waqar.
Look we were the first in this downturn to retire assets but we may not be the first to acquire assets.
And valuing any distressed asset you have to consider the future revenue stream.
The most important factor in any valuation methodology is the first five years of revenue.
It doesn't matter which tool is used and if revenue stream is uncertain over or near zero in the short to medium term then it's not difficult to see why the seller buyer arbitrage is so wide at present.
And in a market that is looking troubled for a good number of years with significant excess supply in the sixth-gen space the price will need to be very very attractive.
One of the main responsibilities that I have for the shareholders of Diamond Offshore's future capital allocation and the proper goal accordingly is to focus on long-term value per share.
So buying distressed assets at current prices is not in my opinion maximizing future shareholder value.
However I'm not ruling out such as an option at some stage in the future.
And really the same goes for consolidation.
One has to look at the balance between long and short-term contract coverage that is out there.
And not all rigs contribute the same to EBITDA.
But I had to say our high-earning sixth-gen assets are all contracted through to 2019 and beyond.
And we have no sixth-gen assets that we have to cold stack or defer delivery on.
So that's why I would say I would not swap my fleet or balance sheet with any other.
So in essence any acquisition would need to have a price which is very much more attractive than I think where we are today.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker of KeyBanc Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Marc I was wanting to ask you a little more about the bifurcation that you spoke about because as you know in many down cycles high-end rigs work in mid-water at very low rates and especially given the high-stacking cost of ultra-deepwater rigs you would expect that to reoccur.
But you're signaling a different kind of phenomenon this time and I just wondered if you could shed a little more light on that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks for the question.
I think we will see a further bifurcation in the market between the high-end sixth-gen fleet and let's say a fourth generation moored floater.
As I've previously mentioned more scrapping is needed but from looking at what has happened already this will really only help the fourth-gen market where we as a company are well positioned with relatively capable assets I might add.
Having said that we have demonstrated that our fourth-gen and fifth-gen assets have opportunities.
In my last call four of our seven fourth-gen assets actually started new contracts – about a number of months ago.
We've previously announced the new contract for the Apex is a very good rate for this market.
And the Monarch as I earlier referred to has recently commenced work in Australia.
The real problem is in the sixth-gen category where we simply have too much supply and there's no scrapping occurring in that category at this time.
That's why effectively it's so hard to value put a true value on sixth-generation assets at present unless they have committed long-term contracts like our own fleet does.
So if you look at – again as I said in my prepared remarks if you look at the number of exploration permits being issued in the Gulf of Mexico they're all in the deep – well they're primarily all in the mid-water space.
And we've seen a lot of tenders coming out that are more specific for our moored fleet whether it's in Australia where there's quite a bit of activity right now or certain other places.
So a lot of people suggest that we're somewhat encumbered by having a more mixed fleet.
I see it in a different way.
We will see bifurcation and we're very very comfortable with our fleet mix at this moment in time.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
It's an interesting phenomenon.
So one follow-up question.
When you have these warm stacked assets like the Quest or the America Confidence and they're in a particular location is the way the market works now with idle rigs available in essentially all markets that the real opportunities you would pursue would be close to where that rig is actually sitting today and that mob cost and so forth would basically rule out moving to another market or bidding that rig into West Africa or somewhere else.
Robin this is Ron.
I think that's largely true with the surplus of assets.
I think coming to terms with the mobilization cost that's hard to make that work in economics.
And so where you got surplus in regional markets I think that plays pretty heavily into decision making on what rigs end up where.
So we've seen I think less cross regional moves because of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
Well thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson of Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ian.
We've covered the Confidence and the America and the Quest but also you've got the three rigs rolling this quarter right the Onyx Endeavor and Valiant and I wonder if any of those have decent visibility for follow-on work with the current customers or future customers? Ian thanks for that question.
This is Ron.
So let's talk about kind of each of those here.
So the Onyx following her work with DG (31:10) I think we're going to have to focus on minimizing her costs during this phase of the oversupplied market.
That's just a reality.
We do see a future for the rig I think when the market does tighten up.
And candidly her good performance and low operating cost favors some budget-minded programs.
So look for that rig in the future.
But I think you've got to be realistic here in the short term.
The Endeavor of course she's working for Exxon; to date good feedback on her performance.
Her work case was just passed the start of the year.
Exxon has not announced or declared any additional scopes of work for the Endeavor so we have nothing to announce there today.
I think you can expect us to clarify the outlook on Endeavor between now and year-end.
And thirdly on the Valiant doing well for Premier today.
Again good feedback on how she's drilling.
I think in contrast to the Onyx and Endeavor though I'd be a bit more I think optimistic on what we see for her in 2016 in terms of her work in the UK.
Nothing specific to talk about but that's one we have I think just a bit more traction around operator interest.
There's more demand in that region you mean? Yeah.
There is more.
It's not the kind of long-term programs that we've just kind of enjoyed in the past.
But we're seeing good honest I think short to medium term scopes of work and the Valiant is doing well there – good reputation the operators like her.
And so that's one where we continue to put some energy into.
Okay.
Thanks for those answers.
And you also mentioned in the beginning of the call that Dana will be paying part of the Guardian's pre-startup warm stack costs.
Is that included in the $220 000 dayrate that you've reported? Or would that be above and beyond that? Yeah.
Ian it's Ron again.
That is not included in the $220 000 that's above and beyond.
Okay.
And then last one for me if I can.
Marc you've talked a little bit in the past recent past about the merits at least hypothetically of a next generation newbuild as opposed to buying a sixth-gen rig that's idle that looks cheap but might not as you say have a clear value without any demand prospects.
Any progress on that idea or do you think it's just more of an abstraction at this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So thanks for the question.
Look I would suggest that there is not much more the drillers can give away to E&amp;P companies in terms of dayrates.
In the current oil price environment with the excess supply in fifth and sixth-gen assets.
We're struggling to put rigs to work at even cash cost and this is obviously not sustainable.
So you really have to look at the structure of the deepwater industry itself and address efficiency capital efficiency for ourselves and our clients.
We have to lower the costs and shorten the cycle time.
In my prior life this is exactly what we did for the unconventional shale developments here in North America.
We need to take a similar approach to deepwater drilling.
So suffice to say I have a lot of very capable people here at Diamond working on a floating factory concept.
Obviously we can't address cost savings let's say relating to umbilicals or top sides no right of penetration.
But we can address the 80% of the time a rig is over a well without the bit turning.
The opportunity is significant and the savings could be material.
The industry successfully took a factory approach to solving unconventional shale economics.
We need to do the same to deepwater.
But in terms of – well let me express it this way.
We at Diamond know what we want to do in terms of the floating factory concept.
But I bring you to the capital allocation conundrum in terms of what we're likely to do.
I think this is where your question is really pointed.
And the correct answer is that it depends based on price and value of alternatives or all of which we will continue to monitor as they track lower.
Our industry is somewhat self-correcting.
There is a price for a distressed asset that meets double-digit WACC hurdles with lower dayrates and this needs to be compared with efficiency gains from the floating factory which we believe are material.
So I'm not going to declare at this stage on what we're going to do.
Suffice to say we're looking at all opportunities and there is a possibility we might have somewhat of a hybrid strategy moving forward.
Very good.
Thanks Marc.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis of Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Thank you and good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Over the last couple of months was – and this is regarding the GreatWhite.
We're seeing some issues with shipyards unable to deliver the rigs on time and that's resulted in contract issues.
You mentioned earlier that we are spending some money on the rig oversight of that rig.
If you could just give us any sort of update.
Is that rig on schedule ahead of schedule? I mean it's still a year out but it seems like this is generally when we've seen issues start to creep in with rigs that are eventually delayed.
So just any sort of update on that I think would be pretty helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
Look we're all watching what's happening in Korea today with a lot of interest.
The GreatWhite was scheduled for delivery at the end of this year.
That's not going to happen.
But with our own experience from working with a particular shipyard involved on the delivery of the drillships we factored somewhat of a delay into the delivery itself when we contracted the rigs with our client.
If you look at the particular stage of where the GreatWhite is today and compare it with where we're at with the Black ships we are very confident that the rig will be delivered let's say April May next year.
We've communicated that early with our client and they are very comfortable.
I believe that they've actually publicly announced that they will commence drilling around October November in Australia.
So as it stands today even with a delay that's factored into it even with the commitment that our client has publicly stated regarding start date of the rig.
We're not concerned about the contract being canceled or us having to relook at the delivery date from the shipyard itself.
So at this moment in time we are comfortable that the rigs will be delivered in time to meet the obligations that are required from our client to commence drilling in Australia.
But obviously we've got a keen oversight on the rig.
Okay great.
And then just Ron and just a little bit more color on the expansion on the Courage.
Just as you look at that and make adjustments I mean it look like the implied rate is somewhere in the $270 000 or $280 000 range.
That rate seems pretty good given the environment of rigs going idle.
Yeah you gave up a little bit on those two rigs that the contracts terminated earlier but were you surprised at the dayrate on that rig? Yeah Greg.
Good topic important win for us.
And of course Petrobras also liked the outcome.
From our standpoint having the rig extended at $380 000 per day I thought was a pretty good outcome.
Marc mentioned as a backlog multiple we certainly earned back a lot more than we gave up.
And for Petrobras I mean we comprehend why they had some and have some short-term pain in 2015 and 2016.
So that's the trade that we made.
I think we were quite pleased to have not traded away dayrate on the existing term.
I think that was an important I think point for us and Petrobras recognized why that mattered to us.
It was a good trade.
And although I get the algebra on the implied dayrate calculation that you mentioned but we looked at it as a $380 000 rate for added term on the back end and we both came away I think liking the deal.
Okay.
I mean even at $275 000 it seems like at an implied rate still good.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
And again I know how the algebra kind of takes you there.
But we certainly think of it as $380 000 on the back end and preserving the existing rate for the current scope of work.
Okay guys.
Hey thank you very much.
The next question comes from the line of Lukas Daul of ABG.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Guys I had a question on your comments around the tendering activity in mid-water and ultra-deepwater.
Can you talk a little bit more about what is driving oil companies to sort of be more active in mid-water as opposed to the ultra-deepwater at the moment? Yeah Lukas this is Ron.
I think what you see there is that longer term operators recognize that deepwater – mid-water will continue to be part of their overall portfolio.
And even though the economics are challenging I think today but there's a whole life cycle I think that operators have to manage.
And so they continue to acquire interest in stakes in different properties so they can continue to develop them over time.
And so even though again we're on a tough I think spot right now the operators want to keep feeding in mid-water I think parts of their portfolio.
And we will continue to serve those over time.
So it speaks well to long term the kind of fleet mix that Marc talked about.
All right.
And then looking at the overall drilling costs from the oil company perspective obviously rates have come down in excess of 50%.
But what would you say has been the decrease in the overall rig spread that the oil companies are bearing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the rates on the spreads themselves obviously haven't come down as much as the dayrate on the rig itself.
I think you're probably looking at currently 15% to 20% across the rest of the deepwater space.
Is there more to come? Positively I think perhaps maybe the average breakeven point for deepwater was around the $85 rate.
I think you're going to see another $15 coming off of that.
You see unconventional.
It's more transactional and therefore if we look at competing against unconventional certainly here in North America that cost could come down much faster than we can bring costs down in deepwater.
And that's why we at Diamond are looking at this floating factory concept to see what else we can do other than just imply lower dayrates because that's not just the answer.
I'll bring up a point here that we're looking at in terms of the long-term prospects for deepwater.
And I think some of – there is an overemphasis on the 2020 or similar future strip calling for a price that's still in the $65 a barrel range when really the elephant in the room is a combination of oil intensity of the economy economic growth decline curves geopolitical risk whatever you want to say.
And well I say this because one of the larger investment banks has recently published a very detailed and perhaps the most comprehensive report of the year looking into the melting pot that governs the price of oil and has some interesting conclusions.
And suffice to say that we also would be surprised to see a $65 price in 2020.
I think the price would be higher than that.
And I think deepwater will come back once we've implemented further cost savings as to how we deliver these projects over the next two to three years.
And I think we'll be looking at a very different market but it's not going to happen today.
So I hope that that will answer some of your queries there.
Yeah.
Thanks.
And just finally when talking about new contracts with the operators have you sort of experienced that they are more scrutinizing the financial health of the contractors? Yeah.
This is Ron.
The short answer is yes they are.
And quite candidly we know that customers are taking a very close look at who can survive this market cycle.
And we've received some pretty I think favorable feedback on the confidence that they had in Diamond with our strong balance sheet to make it through this market.
And they know that we'll navigate through this cycle.
And that during the cycle we'll stay focused on training and spares and maintenance and operational excellence things that are important to high performing drillers.
And so this is coming up as an increasingly important theme as we talk to our customers.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First on the fleet and planned downtime for 2016 I notice you haven't put anything yet in the fleet status report and I know that can be in flux given where we are in the budgetary process.
But could you at least identify what rigs might have some planned downtime in 2016? Hey Dave it's Gary.
You're right we're still going through the budget but at this point it's questionable whether we're going to have anything for planned downtime.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
All right.
And then Gary just as a follow up.
On your cost guidance the $255 million to $275 million that includes $10 million in mob costs? That is correct.
Inc.</span></strong> And so what kind of a run rate going forward is kind of the $245 million to $265 million just from an operating standpoint? It's going to depend on the activity of the rigs.
We have some cost for the Alliance and the Clipper in Q4.
We shouldn't have that in Q1 so it could come down again in Q1.
But we'll see what we'll have when we evaluate everything.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
I'll turn it back.
Our next question comes from the line of Judson Bailey of Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Question for Gary.
Gary with – as a result of your cost coming down quite a bit here over the last few quarters can you maybe help us recalibrate your operating costs or operating cost assumptions for our modeling purposes for some of your major asset classes? I'm thinking of the drillships in the Gulf of Mexico and maybe now the two remaining ultra-deepwater semis you're going to have in Brazil? Yeah Jud.
We're looking at the big drillships in the Gulf.
They have an operating cost of around $160 000 a day.
But we also have amortized mob that has to go into that.
So once you add that in it comes back to the $175 000 $180 000 something like that.
And then in Brazil those costs have come down; one because of the cost initiatives; and then two because of the strength of the dollar against the Brazil currency.
And so those costs are somewhere also in that $170 000 $180 000 range.
They had been over $200 000 a day to $220 000.
Okay.
And then last one – or the next one I was going to ask about the Guardian or just kind of your UK mid-water semis cost point there? Cost point somewhere in the $60 000 to $70 000.
$60 000 okay.
And then my follow-up question is just thinking about Brazil as a market for Diamond you will be down to two working semis.
Can you maybe talk us through how can that impact maybe your shore-based costs in that region? Can you start eliminating some bigger cost in that area and maybe move them back to the U.S.
or when you're down to that low of a number of rigs working can you help us think through does that help you eliminate some of your shore-based costs down there further? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
It does.
It does Jud.
We already started working on reducing our shore-based costs in Brazil a good number of quarters ago.
We've actually done two tranches of cost reductions there.
And in actual fact we started rightsizing for a two-rig operation probably about three four months ago.
So we're well into that process.
As the international players pick up in that part of the world we're looking at what other rigs we might take in there.
So I think an earlier question came is do we believe any of our other contracts are at risk? I think we're done with Petrobras.
I think they're very comfortable in terms of what we've negotiated and what they've negotiated.
It is a win-win for both parties.
And I don't see any more risk there for our backlog.
And indeed I think actually there is an opportunity to take one of our other assets in there in possibly a couple of years.
We're already in dialog.
So I think from a Diamond Offshore perspective we're looking at in the long run increasing our fleet once again down there rather than taking it back any further.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Smith of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
My questions have been answered.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question will come from the line of Mark Brown of Seaport Global Securities.
Hi gentlemen.
I wanted to ask just on your – how you think the sixth-gen asset demand will come back? Do you think it will recover by 2019 2020 when your new drillships come off contract? Are you considering potentially blend and extend type of arrangements in advance of that if you don't think it will have recovered by then? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Mark.
Look geopolitical issues aside the ultra-deepwater market will remain particularly challenged through in our opinion or my opinion through at least the end of 2017 and possibly into 2018.
So I would be surprised if by the time our current rigs come off contract in 2019 and 2020 that the market has not turned somewhat.
You can't escape the fact that at this year-end there will be over 40 capable assets looking for work with more to be delivered next year and many without a contract.
This number could double over the next few years.
There are not many drillship tenders available today nor will there be in the next few quarters.
If you look at our clients and what they're signaling vis-à-vis 2017 CapEx and you look at the current availability of contracting on the sixth-gen assets along with the cycle time and projects sanctioned to – rigs actually commencing operations then we are looking at a recovery that we believe does not materialize for these assets prior to 2018.
But as I've stated before and not by accident by the way all of our high EBITDA contributions sixth-gen assets on contract through to 2019 and beyond to include what we believe is a win for us the additional $333 million of backlog we have announced at a rate of $380 000 a day for the Ocean Courage.
And for those with a more diversified fleet for example capable moored fourth-generation assets the recovery may come sooner where excess supply will be less if we continue to see more scrapping in this particular space.
Okay.
Well thank you.
And then just on the moored semi market overall how do you see demand evolving next year or the year after that? Do you believe it will decline somewhat but not as much as the ultra-deepwater or do you think it will maintain some more resiliency and maybe flatten? Yeah.
This is Ron here.
I think to kind of echo some of Marc's comments there we certainly see in the sixth space the oversupply will keep that in sort of a tough sector for us for anyone competing.
But in the mooring space candidly there is – that's a smaller I think slice of the market in terms of what's out in the oversupply.
And so in fact there's probably maybe not in the short term here but if you think through the second bounce of the ball you could see some ways to see a more – slightly more optimistic scenario.
I think we're not prepared to call it a sort of – we're not prepared to say that improves it quickly but you can see a scenario where in fact enough supply comes out and the demand stays reasonable where that market tightens up perhaps faster than a sixth-generation drillship slice will.
That makes sense.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Well folks thank you for participating in the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in the next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome to everyone to the Diamond Offshore Drilling Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on to mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Darren Daugherty Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are Marc Edwards President and Chief Executive Officer Gary Krenek Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Woll Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer.
Following our prepared remarks this morning we will have a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our remarks I remind you that information reported on this call speaks only as of today and therefore you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay of this call.
In addition certain statements made during this call may be forward-looking in nature.
Those statements are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks and uncertainties many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by these statements.
These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed in our filings with the SEC including in our 10-K and 10-Q filings.
Further we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued earlier today.
And please note that the contents of our call today are covered by that disclosure.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Darren.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
I would like to start by highlighting some of our key achievements for the year just ended.
Despite the market turmoil during 2015 we delivered record breaking performance as it relates to both safety and uptime and our early efforts to position the Company for a protracted downturn proved fruitful in terms of reducing input costs which fell through to the bottom-line mid-year.
We are continuing to look at innovative ways to further reduce costs and drive efficiencies for the benefit of our clients and our shareholders.
This philosophy is what led to our announcement this morning of the industry’s first subsea Pressure Control by the Hour construct.
I’ll share more on that in a few moments but first let me continue with some commentary around our financial performance.
For the fourth quarter we continued to produce solid underlying results reporting $0.89 per share after adjusting for impairment charges.
And for the full year 2015 we reported $3.05 per share again adjusting for the impairment changes.
Fourth quarter results did benefit from a $33 million true-up payment for a customer who exercised an option not to extend the term on the Ocean BlackRhino contract.
Gary will provide more details on the financials but overall our results reflect our successful efforts to reduce costs while continuously improving our safety and operational performance.
Further across the entire fleet we delivered 97% operational efficiency that is the percentage of the time that equipment was available to work without unanticipated downtime.
And for 2015 we delivered the best safety performance in the Company’s history achieving a 34% improvement on normalized safety stats over the prior year.
But despite this very solid performance we are unfortunately yet to see any signs of improvement in the offshore rig market fundamentals.
All asset classes are struggling but as I said before the higher end dynamically positioned fifth and sixth-generation market has the biggest problem.
But on a positive note and as you are aware all of our sixth-generation assets are contracted to 2019 or beyond.
The market will recover as oil supply and demand fundamentals come into balance but we believe that due to the long lead times in the deepwater space any uptick in activity could be further over the horizon than current consensus.
Therefore despite sharing the best credit rating in our industry we are taking action to bolster our already solid balance sheet.
And with that this morning we announced that our Board of Directors has eliminated the regular quarterly dividend which was previously $12.05 per share.
This will add an additional $69 million per year of liquidity for the Company.
We have paid a regular dividend for a considerable period of time so it’s only after careful deliberation that such a decision was reached.
By conserving additional cash we will improve our flexibility to take advantage of strategic opportunities that may materialize.
So let me now return to our press release this morning announcing our agreement with GE Oil &amp; Gas.
We are entering an industry first of its kind performance based service and maintenance arrangement for the provision of pressure control.
In other words GE as the original equipment manufacturer will now be a key stakeholder in improving the availability and performance of the subsea stacks on Diamond Offshore’s sixth-generation ultra-deepwater drillships.
These are the Oceans BlackHawk BlackHornet BlackRhino and BlackLion.
We already know that the breakeven cost of deepwater drilling is coming down.
But as I have said before all stakeholders in offshore drilling have to continue to look at the structure of the industry and address efficiency capital efficiency for ourselves and our clients.
We have to lower both costs and cycle times.
One of the largest impediments to delivering the required economic returns at deepwater projects today relates to the poor uptime availability of the subsea systems.
A single stack pull can add up to an expensive 20 days of non-productive time to our client's well construction process.
Presently downtime on subsea equipment is by far the largest cause of non-productive time.
Each day of downtime can represent as much as $0.5 million of lost revenue to Diamond Offshore in addition to another $0.5 million of unwanted spread expense for our client.
The new service model which we refer to as Pressure Control By the Hour transfers full responsibility for the maintenance service the management and supply of spare parts equipment upgrades continuous certification and data monitoring back to the original equipment manufacturer.
GE employees will be permanently stationed on our rigs but Diamond will retain operation and control of the subsea stack itself.
Not only will GE maintain the subsea stacks but they will buyback Diamond Offshore systems which include all eight units two boarding ships as well as the diverters and control systems.
Under the arrangement Diamond Offshore will pay a dayrate similar to how we are paid by our own customers.
If downtime occurs because of the subsea stack GE will not be paid and will therefore feel the financial impact similar to the way the driller and operator are affected today.
This is new to the industry.
GE will be further incentivized to improve subsea equipment performance through a bonus-malus system based on an already determined performance metric.
As an example should uptime not meet the certain threshold which is higher than where we are today malus payments will be made.
These performance incentives will drive further improvement in deepwater drilling efficiencies by motivating all parties to prioritize availability.
Under our 10-year agreement GE as the original equipment manufacturer will be in a performance-based alliance that leverages the scale of their data predictive analytics including condition-based monitoring and maintenance that will proactively improve the availability of our subsea stacks.
In essence they will be further incentivized to embrace the design for reliability ethos.
Now the task at hand for us is implementation.
The agreement will phase in our four ultra-deepwater drillships over the course of 2016 beginning next month.
So what will this mean to the bottom-line for Diamond Offshore? For obvious competitive reasons I will not share specific commercial terms.
However we will record the sale of the subsea stacks as we transition to the arrangement throughout the course of the upcoming year with this target implementation.
Going forward we will not provide rig level cost guidance to drillship operating under the agreement but Gary will continue to provide it for total drilling expense.
However we do believe that this arrangement will provide for incremental contract revenue in the long run.
This is a tangible example of the Diamond difference a new way of thinking that would drive continues improvement in offshore drilling.
Pressure Control by the Hour is a new service model for our industry that is long overdue.
We hope that along with our service partner GE Oil &amp; Gas we can help further improve the full lifecycle NPVs of deepwater drilling and in so doing further differentiate Diamond’s sixth-generation assets from the rest of the pack.
With that I will now hand over the call to Gary to discuss the financials and then I will have some closing remarks.
Gary? Thanks Marc.
As always I will give a little color on this past quarter’s results and then cover what is to expected for the upcoming quarter.
In addition as is our custom with our fourth quarter earnings call I will spend some time providing additional selective information on what we expect for the entire year of 2016 with regards to various line items on the income statement expected capital expenditures downtime et cetera.
For the quarter just ended we reported an after-tax net loss of $245 million or $1.79 per share based on contract drilling revenues of $556 million.
This net loss compared to net income of $136 million or $0.99 per share reported in the previous quarter was of course primarily driven by the non-cash impairment write-down recorded in Q4.
The impairment charge to our rig fleet totaled $499 million which resulted in an after-tax charge of $2.68 to EPS.
I'll add a little color on that in a moment.
Contract drilling revenues decreased from $599 million in Q3 to $544 million in Q4 primarily as a result of a number of rigs rolling off contract in mid to late Q3 or early Q4 and failing to filing follow-on work in this depressed market.
Partially offsetting this decrease was the additional revenue received by the drillship Ocean BlackRhino due to a customer exercising the contractual option in Q4 not to extend the rigs contract.
This resulted in the contract dayrate reverting back to the higher original rate from the reduced dayrate that we'd reported in our last rig status report and thus enabling us to build and record approximately $33 million of additional revenue in Q4 over and above what we would have recorded had the dayrates had stayed at its revised rate.
During the fourth quarter the Company made the decision to actively market in attempt to sell its jack-up fleet with the exception of the Ocean Scepter which is under long-term contract in Mexico.
The remaining five jack-up rigs were included in our impairment charge this quarter and have been return to nominal amounts that we expect to receive as a result of their sales.
We expect these sales to occur within the next 12 months and as a result have reclassified these rigs from fixed assets to assets held for sale on the balance sheet at December 31st.
I'll now address some of the additional line items on our fourth quarter income statement.
First contract drilling expenses for the quarter came in at $256 million which is $22 million less than the prior quarter and at the very low end of our Q4 guidance of $255 million to $275 million.
However the BlackRhino's extension cancellation not only impacted revenues for the quarter but also contract drilling expenses.
GAAP accounting requires us to defer and amortize mob and contract prep cost over the expected length of a contract.
When the contract was shortened required it required us to amortize the contract drilling expense of approximately $9 million more than what we had anticipated for Q4.
Had this not occurred we would have come in below our guidance for the quarter again reflecting the efforts of the Company to be as cost efficient as possible.
As I've stated in prior earnings calls after safety cost controls and efficiencies remain one of our top goals.
Depreciation expense decreased slightly in Q4 and came in at about $3.5 million below our guidance mostly as a result of a normal true-up of depreciation at year-end to reflect exact timing of capital expenditures made during the year.
G&amp;A cost and interest expense for the fourth quarter 2015 also came in at or slightly below the low end of our previous guidance ranges while our effective tax rate excluding the impairment charge was 11.9% again slightly below the guidance range of 12% to 16%.
Now looking forward in 2016 and some of the items that will affect our financial performance next quarter and for the coming full year.
First to look at anticipated downtime for our rigs under contract.
For the first time in recent memory we have no special surveys for rigs in our fleet scheduled for 2016.
We do have several rigs that will be mobing during the year and also have some acceptance testing and modification downtime schedule.
For the exact number of down days expected 2016 and the timing of these projects I'll refer you to our rig status report that we filed this morning.
Now turning to our guidance for the full year ahead I'll give estimates for the first quarter and full year 2016 for individual line items on the income statement with the exception of contract drilling expense.
Because of the uncertain industry outlook it is difficult to predict longer term rig utilization and therefore I'll only comment on operating expense for the first quarter of 2016.
We expect rig operating cost to decrease for the sixth consecutive quarter.
In Q1 we expect to report contract drilling expense between $205 million $225 million.
While a part of the decrease in this guidance from Q4 actual cost is activity related for example the Ocean Clipper and the Ocean Alliance going from working in a portion of Q4 to currently either sold or cold-stacked it also reflects our ongoing cost savings initiatives.
As always I remind everyone that I've been talking about the line contract drilling expenses on our income statement which does not incur in the line reimbursable expenses.
Depreciation expense for the full year 2016 is estimated to be in the range of $420 million to $440 million a decrease compared to 2015 DD&amp;A.
This decrease is primarily due to the sale of a number of rigs in 2015 along with the impairment charges we took in Q1 and Q4.
We expect Q1 2016 depreciation cost to come in at between $100 million and $110 million and then increase slightly when we begin normal depreciation of the Ocean GreatWhite subsequent to the delivery of the rig from the shipyard.
G&amp;A costs are expected to total 60 million to 80 million for the year with approximately 15 million to 20 million incurred during each quarter of 2016.
Interest expense on our current debt and expected borrowings on our bank line of credit net of capitalized interest is projected to total between 105 million to 115 million in 2016.
Net interest in the first two quarters of 2016 should run close to $25 million per quarter and then increase slightly to closer to $27 million or $28 million in the final two quarters when we're no longer capitalizing interest on the GreatWhite.
We’re currently looking at an effective tax rate for the year to be in the range of 10% to 18%.
As always any changes of the geographic mix and the source of earnings as well as tax assessments or settlements or movements in exchange rates will impact our effective tax rate.
For the sake of clarity I’d like to point out that while we are not going to share the commercial terms of our Pressure Control by the Hour agreement with GE the expected financial impact of the agreement has been included in the guidance that I’ve just given you.
In addition the sale of the subsea stacks back to GE will not generate any recordable gain or loss on our financial statements.
And finally moving onto our capital expenditure guidance reflecting decreased rig activity we believe that we will incur maintenance capital cost of approximately $150 million for the full year 2016 which is down from our 2015 maintenance CapEx spend of $215 million.
Newbuild capital CapEx for 2016 is expected to be $525 million which includes oversight costs and the final 70% shipyard payment for the Ocean GreatWhite.
Adding those together maintenance and newbuild capital expenditures are expected to total approximately $675 million in 2016.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Marc.
Thank you Gary.
For a little over a year I have expressed view we are facing a severe and prolonged down cycle.
And today it seems clear that the oversupply of drilling capacity may persist well into 2017 and possibly beyond.
Eventually however the price of oil should stabilize at a much higher price than where we are today and deepwater production should again be a growing component of total global energy supply.
We are in a cyclical business and eventually our clients’ priorities will shift from reducing spending to growing deepwater production and reserve replacement.
The industry may look different in the future but supply and demand will eventually comeback into balance.
Today with the suspension of the dividend we have further bolstered our already strong balance sheet.
And although the introduction of our Pressure Control by the Hour service also improves our liquidity this was not the reason why we introduced the concept to the industry.
Instead we are further differentiating our fleet in a manner that meets our clients’ most pressing well construction needs.
So let me be clear we intend for our Company to come out of this downturn well-positioned to succeed during the eventual recovery.
We will continue to focus on conducting safe operations delivering quality performance for our clients rationalizing costs and utilizing our capital efficiency.
And now with that we’ll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Do you think that this business model will roll out fairly rapidly or do you think that we’ll be looking at this as a test case for a year or more before it’s adopted more broadly across your fleet or across the industry? Ian thanks for the question.
Look by the end of the day this is our idea and we reached out to GE because they were already familiar with guaranteeing availability and other industrial segments.
And importantly we have the subsea stacks of course on our new drillships.
If they were to have correct skin in the game from a financial perspective we needed for them to have the total accountability that comes with owning the assets too.
So we’ve collected $210 million from the proceeds of the sale but I’m not sure the OEMs will be willing to repurchase subsea stacks carte blanche.
So as a result we have significant advantages that come with first mover advantage.
And this is actually a huge vote of confidence regarding Diamond Offshore as a leading offshore driller one that comes from a cooperation of the scale and sophistication of GE.
This was a difficult construct to put in the industry.
There was no precedent.
It’s a culmination of eight months of negotiation.
And we are there now and our clients are applauding.
So we aim to bring uptime and availability performance improvements to the subsea stack similar to what we’ve seen for example in other industries such as aviation and power generation with rotating equipment.
Let me not underestimate the difficulty of putting this in place.
What I wanted to do is I wanted to have the original equipment manufacturer to have total skin in the game.
So that involves selling BOPs back to the OEM back to GE in this case.
For us we did it on our new drillships because clearly that was as you rightly mentioned perhaps the best test case.
I see this rolling out across the industry the reliability of subsea stacks needs to improve to drive the efficiency gains to make this more economic.
So to answer your question yes I think it will expand across the industry.
But clearly we’ve got first mover advantage in this particular case.
Very interesting thanks Marc.
Then just as a separate follow-up I think we can make our own judgments about some of your rig rollovers this year.
But one that I’m curious on is the Endeavor as is coming back from the Black Sea.
What are your current plans for that rig as it's being brought back I presume to this side of the world? Ian this is Ron.
We got high marks from Exxon on the work that Endeavor did in the Black Sea but really based on markets and this geology what they found that work is not extended in the Black Sea kind with Exxon.
So she is in Romania now where the derrick will be removed so we can take it back to the Bosporus on a heavy lift.
We definitely see it as part of our fleet going forward but there is no immediate follow on work that we are announcing today.
So likely cold stacks in pretty short order is that a reasonable assumption? Yes we’ve got several months worth to work I think before we take her down to a cold-stacking status.
So we’ve got to -- there is some work still ahead before get there but we will minimize our costs and then see where the market takes us.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Clearly what you are doing is turning the industry a little bit on its head here.
I guess as I think about this and the profitability side of working the subsea control system and the stack do we think this actually longer term reduces overall returns for the industry? Is that a concern that we should be having? Not at all I see it actually a quite different to that.
The nature and impact of this arrangement is not material to earnings this is a part of long term strategy that will address one of the Achilles heels of offshore drilling today.
The subsea downtime is huge in the industry.
And if you think of each day we are down from drilling the stack pool that’s a loss of million dollars for our clients on a daily basis.
The stack pull can be up to 20 days.
So in terms of drilling the well you lose the subsea stack whatever reliability issue then that adds some time up to $20 million to the cost of the well.
The reliability just isn't there.
And by incentivizing the original equipment manufacturer from a financial basis and as I said in my prepared remarks when -- the current when today they do a direct sale and they hand us a spare parts price list.
They are not really incentivized like the driller or the operating company to minimize downtime.
I would like to think that they do have the design for a reliability ethos.
But by bringing them to the table so that they have financial skin in the game then I can be certain that they are designing their equipment for maximum reliability.
GE know this construct; they do it for aviation turbines.
The GE90 engine as we all fly across the Atlantic they are riding with the GE90 engine on the 777.
That’s the power-by-the-hour philosophy and we are going to a similar philosophy here with the subsea stacks.
They do it for rotating equipment and compression plants and power stations.
So it's already well-known.
And if actually study those industries you can see that when you go to this construct there is an improvement in reliability.
And any improvement in reliability puts money on the bottom-line for Diamond Offshore and helps out my shareholders.
So really the construct here is to have more uptime of the fleet itself based on dragging the original equipment manufacturer to the table with skin in the game.
This is what our clients want.
This is not a technology push from a Diamond Offshore perspective; this is a demand pull from my clients.
Okay perfect.
And then just shifting gears over real quick on the rig side.
I guess I saw that contract extension on the Scepter in Mexico.
Does this sort of pave the way for potentially an extension or an incremental work on the Ambassador as it rolls off later this quarter? Greg this is Ron.
The Scepter I think it was a good arrangement between us and Pemex but I would probably not connect the dots to the Ambassador.
I think it is quite likely here that it should be winding down in ‘16.
So I wouldn't model her -- I wouldn't model the Ambassador beyond where she is today.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Does the agreement with GE require any change in the contracts with your customers or does that relationship remains the same? The relationship effectively stays the same.
Obviously our customers were involved as we were getting to the finish line on setting up the agreement with GE but both customers were very very positive.
And as I go around the industry and I visit the executives in charge of drilling not just for my own customers but for other E&amp;P operators out there they are very positive on this construct; they see it as a win for everybody in deepwater drilling.
And then I understand completely you don't want to share specific commercial terms but just in general terms in terms of the mechanics or the accounting that goes into it since you’re selling the -- effectively selling BOP would that be a reduction in the carrying value of the rig and therefore the depreciation and that do you offset that a little bit with presumably higher OpEx with the payment that GE go into the OpEx line? Pretty much hit it on the head there Mike.
We'll have less depreciation.
Of course agreement with GE will be treated as operating lease so cost will increase there but it will be offset by cost savings by us for things that we no longer have to provide for that BOP maintenance.
So at the end as Marc said in his opening remarks we don't see it having a great bottom-line impact or very material particularly when you factor in our expected increased utilization on rigs.
So let me just reemphasize one point here.
The subsea [ph] downtime is the Achilles heel of our industry.
I’ve used that expression quite a bit.
These four Black ships now effectively go to the fronts of the daily line in terms of desirability from our clients.
This is -- yes it's helped us from a liquidity perspective for sure but more importantly our assets become extremely attractive as it relates to future contracting opportunities moving forward.
We're the first to do this in our space.
Is there a possibility of further rolling it out throughout the fleet I would say that there is.
I'm not saying at this time that we're going to do it.
But this is all about competitive differentiation.
And I believe that our four Black ships now frankly in a market that is oversupplied have become very very attractive assets from the client perspective.
If I could sneak one more in since presumably this would lower the cost of a new build rig it's just one less piece of equipment you have to buy and then of course the reliability factor.
Does that change or increases the likelihood that you might go forward with the floating factory concept? So yes thanks for that question.
As we put thought leadership in the industry here it's very important to be focused on the immediate future.
We've positioned the Company early for an extended downturn both from a backlog liquidity and an operating cost perspective.
And we're executing very well on the short-term strategy but it's also important not to lose sight of the longer term either.
So as much as we listen to our clients’ needs on Pressure Control by the Hour we're also listening to clients’ needs as it relates to efficiency gains.
For example in the 80% of the time a rig is actually over the wellhead not drilling.
The conundrum is how do we lower cost through efficiency gains.
And here at Diamond we continue to ask ourselves such questions and we have some neat answers that we share with our clients.
They like what we're saying.
But I’d bring you back to the capital allocation conundrum.
My management team and I are laser focused on maximizing shareholder value over the long-term.
And in this respect it's important that we have a series of strategic options that are available to us.
We pulled the trigger on Pressure Control by the Hour but -- and that’s somewhat of a no-brainer.
However I cannot say it's right time to declare on other strategies for example.
The important thing is to have as many alternative options available frankly as possible.
And the floating factory is simply yet another option that I have on the table.
But first and foremost I have to review everything in the context of long-term shareholder value.
And right now at this moment in time frankly we're just keeping that on the table as an option for further down the road.
Our next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
In terms of -- just going into further detail on that just broadly -- you still won’t get the dayrate in case the BOP is not functioning is that correct? Waqar that is correct just to be specific here.
What happens today is that the stack goes down for performance related issues around the liability et cetera and we have to pull the stack.
Then from the client perspective obviously they are not progressing the well yet they're still paying for the spread costs.
From our perspective in the most part we go off dayrate because we're not preceding the well.
The OEM the manufacturer of the stack doesn't suffer at all.
So part of this construct moving forward is I'm paying a daily rate for pressure control moving forward.
When I have to pull the stack I no longer pay that daily rate.
So I'm off right the OEM is off right and the operator is suffering the cost of the spread that he is paying for the other services.
So I'm still off right but I'm no longer paying for the BOP stack on a daily basis.
And if during the course of the year the OEM performance is below a metric that we’re already at today they are not only off dayrates but they are paying the amount of payment for poor performance.
So effectively what GE is agreed to do is guarantee performance backed up by financial consequences.
So for the first time in the industry the OEM is sitting at the table when we have problems as an equal stakeholder as the driller the operator and of course the OEM.
That makes sense.
In terms of the liabilities in case of any third-party consequences damage does that change at all that the BOP -- pressure control equipment is owned by somebody else? That’s a good question.
I mean part of the reason the negotiations took so long was to actually sought out and get agreement on the liabilities.
In essence there is no real change to the liabilities moving forward.
At the end of the day the manufacturer or product liability remains in place as do other liabilities.
So there is no real change moving forward.
But that was an extensive part of negotiations that we undertook with GE.
And so for this model to work do you need only the sixth-generation rigs or could this work on some of the older rigs as well or the OEM wants to have like dual [ph] -- a piece on the rigs to reduce their rigs? So this is in the industry first; it made sense that we looked at our brand new rigs -- well in essence they’re brand new one of them has been -- well a couple of them are drilling for well over a year now.
It was easier to convince the OEM to buy back the BOP stack the subsea stack on equipment that was relatively new.
If it’s equipment that was sold to a driller let’s say five years ago I think that conversation will be a much harder discussion because obviously the passage of time creates an understanding of just exactly how well was -- was the stack maintained and then you’ve got further discussions around the true valuation of the BOP.
One of the things I insisted moving forward was this was not just a standard maintenance contract.
I didn’t want to do that.
I needed these guys to truly sit on the table with skin in the game.
And I wanted them to own their performance which included owning the stack.
This is perhaps something that’s easier to do on new drillships as they come out.
But what made it a little bit more complicated is I needed to sell the BOP stack back to the OEM.
And that’s actually harder than you naturally think.
And I think it will be even harder on stacks that are older than the stacks they got on our drillships take it from me.
And then with respect to the GreatWhite have you heard from the customer; are they on track to receive the drilling rig and -- had they budgeted for all what the plan to do with the rig? Well I can’t speak for what their budgets are but right now at this moment in time we’re planning to deliver the GreatWhite as planned and to move forward.
The GreatWhite was supposed to be delivered in December of last year and -- but we’ve now long been in communication with our clients that there will be a let’s say a six months lay on it.
But our contract is quite robust and that the rig called for delivery before the end of this year and we are still on target.
We’ve go to a lot of wiggle room on that to deliver it accordingly.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Meakim with JP Morgan.
So just falling up a bit more on GE could you have discussions with any other OEMs about this type of work? It sounds like perhaps you approached to GE; just curious if what that discussion could look like outside of GE? Yes.
That is an interesting question.
A lot of things actually came together quite well for us to kick this off.
First of all GE understand this kind of concept.
I spoke about how they approach the aviation industry and industrial products they fill in there; I spoke about what they do with rotating equipment in compression and power plants.
So they already get it.
We look at how -- when GE introduced let’s say power-by-the-hour to the aviation industry we looked at how the uptime improved once they were on that construct.
Then we -- our newest assets in the fleet also had GE stacks on them.
So it came together quite well.
And yes we did approach GE.
We wanted to -- if you stand back and you look at the issues in our industry and you look at it from an economic perspective this isn’t just about dayrates this is driving efficiency gains.
This is what I did in my prior life when we were developing unconventionals in North America.
It’s about efficiency gains.
And you’ve got to bring efficiency gains to deepwater drilling to make it economically viable at this kind of oil price.
We know the oil price is going to come back up.
And then the other thing we need to do is differentiate Diamond for the rest of the fleet that’s out there.
And I think everything came together well.
GE understood what we were looking at.
We had long and detailed discussions over the course of what is an eight-month period to put together this construct.
There was no precedent.
But we knew what we wanted to do GE got it and the CEO really came to the table on this GE Oil &amp; Gas and gave it the vote of confidence where the people that they wanted to bring it to the market to as well.
So it will came together due to the fact that GE knew what we wanted we had the assets already on our new drillships and so here we are.
Great; that makes sense.
Shifting to the dividend not surprised to see the move today but just curious if your thoughts have changed or as you think about across cycles do you still think that the offshore rig business is capable of having regular dividends? I am not sure I’ve got an easy answer for that one.
But every quarter our board meets to consider the dividend.
We agree that our balance sheet is relatively strong and we are comfortable with our liquidity but let me put it this way.
There will be winners and losers in offshore drilling as we progress through what is frankly a super cycle.
And we are positioning Diamond to be one of the winners by enabling us to take advantage of the right opportunities if and when they materialize.
And I spoke about many different strategic options that we are considering right now.
And whether it's a floating factory whether it's distressed asset purchase whether it's consolidation through M&amp;A it's all on the table.
But my management team and myself are positioning us to when the cycle starts or we start exiting the down cycle that Diamond Offshore is one of the best if not the best positioned company to take advantage of the wave so that we ride that wave when it comes back.
Because perhaps let me answer the question in this way.
Deepwater drilling will recover of that I have no doubt.
What I can't tell you is when.
And until that point let me reiterate in the past we have no given future guidance as to our long-term dividend policy and we have changed that stance so perhaps as much I can say.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Mackenzie with Iberia Capital.
Thanks guys.
I am going to ask another on the GE contract in a little different way I guess.
What kind of increase in BOP reliability would you need to see to break even in terms of the incremental costs you are incurring? And further to that what kind of upside looking at power by the hour in aviation dollars do you think you could really achieve for your customers and yourselves? Yes both very very good questions.
Now I’ll remind you that the near-term impact of the arrangement is not material to earnings.
So that is as much as I am going to say here from a competitive perspective because I don’t want to broadcast exactly what's going on here.
Gary pointed out what will happen in terms of how it looks from the financial statements.
But be careful around suggesting this is going to be hugely incremental or detrimental to earnings moving forward.
And as to uptime this is not -- we are not switching a light switch here and then tomorrow automatically we’d certainly have improved reliability.
This is a journey this is a journey that’s going to see incremental improvement.
And the same happens with in aviation same happens in power generation that over the course of time will improve subsea downtime.
We look to how much money we lost in 2014 relating to subsea stack pulls.
And it's significant; it's a very very large number.
If I can improve or reduce that number by 50% then it's material to my shareholders.
So it's an incremental improvement.
And what it mean is we will be -- our revenue uptime will improve moving forward and my partner in terms of the OEM providing the subsea stacks will have a stake in the game from a financial perspective.
So it's going to be beneficial from revenue but it's going -- I’ll admit it it’s going to be hard to model for you guys right now.
I will remind you that with our current status in reliability if that doesn’t improve on our subsea stacks then the OEM is already paying us a malus payment.
So they are expecting it to improve moving forward we’re expecting it to improve moving forward and our clients are applauding our efforts.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
So I was wondering if you could comment on what several other of your peers have talked about in terms of the customers requesting relief from existing long-term contracts.
And a second part of that is if you had -- if you negotiated a blend and extend deal or since this GE contract goes for 10 years and your current contracts go for 3 years what kind of market risk does GE have under these contracts? Robin this is Ron let me take the first half of that question first in terms -- from a contract renegotiation standpoint.
Look the current market provides ample incentive for operators to try to renegotiate contracts; any even observer in the market can see that today.
So we get that motivation.
That said though we do believe in the validity contracts.
And we're willing to work with customers to find some mutually agreeable trades that help both parties.
We did that with Petrobras earlier in 2015 on Courage in rotating some older rigs; with did that with other clients along the way.
So those trades are things that we have I think a history making where they are good for both parties.
So I have to emphasize that we do stand behind the contraction and what they mean.
Where we could help partners solve their problems and help our shareholders at the same time that's good.
But as such I think one customer or with Pemex that has some unique rights absent that we do stand behind our contracts.
So from the second part of the question yes it's a ten-year agreement.
I don't think deepwater drilling with sixth-generation assets is going to disappear.
I would argue however that if you have this kind of construct and I really believe that not all sixth-generation assets are going to be able to do this.
Let me just say that we have the highest -- we share the highest credit rating amongst all offshore drillers that are sill investment grade; we've received another $210 million of liquidity moving forward.
I can't say that every OEM is going to do that with all of my competitors.
Now to that point within the contract there is an ability to ramp down the costs and reduce the services that’s being provided if the rigs go idle.
But in -- when my rigs come back for contract renegotiations we all know that deepwater drilling still exists --- my rigs will be – let’s say the expectation that they will be very very attractive in the market because of this construct.
And they will go to work.
So I don't think that there is much of risk at this time of these assets becoming idled moving forward.
And that's the key issue here.
What we've done is we’ve differentiated our assets.
I would like to remind everybody once again this was not a liquidity issue for us.
This was to lower downtime improve efficiencies of deepwater drilling lower the cost for my clients and make my drillships or my assets more attractive than the others that are out there in the industry.
Okay understood.
So if we thought about a stacking cost of the deepwater rig one of these four rigs in the future obviously there is some cost with this contract associated with that.
Well I don't want to get too much away but basically it goes down to the cost of borrowing the other cost goes to zero.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Darren Garcia with ALR Group.
[Ph] Thanks for taking my questions.
I am going to stay on where everybody else I guess just from different functional angle; forget about the economics.
When you talk about GE servicing this is this something where you’ve leased a specific BOP or is it something where -- they have service spaces everywhere are you leasing a BOP from their pool so that they can run at -- in terms of maintaining BOPs on and off rigs what’s the mechanic of how it works with specific asset? So Darren this is -- as it relates to the BOPs we have on the rig itself these BOPs are actually very very heavier items it's actually quite difficult -- well it's not difficult it's just as usual logistic issue to transfer a BOP offering and get a new one on that but BOP is modular.
So part of the construct here is actually we'll be first in line from modular upgrades to the BOP stack itself all in terms of driving reliability forward.
So this is not selling around the world and picking up a new BOP this is a continuous condition maintenance type contract moving forward where the GE as the OEM is continually incentivized to improve availability and uptime of the BOP stack over and above where we are today in the industry.
So again one of the things of partnering with GE on this deal is because they have a huge global footprint.
So we're not really worried about their ability to service us as we pick up contracts around the world.
But I don’t expect we’ll be switching BOPs on and off the rig on a carte blanche manner.
This is about continuous upgrades modular improvements to the BOP stack over the course of time that just continues to drive availability and uptime.
So for the risk that GE takes and sort of hopefully -- it sounds like they have it within a contractual business sense of reward -- what is that due to kind of the average kind of cost of BOP in a rig over time? You used to buy something depending on what the BOP cost was [indiscernible].
Then you sat there and maintained it thereafter.
If you think about kind of the costs of BOP given the fact you are getting added an element to service and you are catching on some bigger risks.
How does that price back in terms of the cost of BOP on a comparable basis to what you were doing before? So again I’m going to be very very carefully here because I don’t want to broadcast -- I don’t want to give competitors kind of leg up on adopting this construct should they so desire.
This is an extensive negotiation over a long period of time.
All I’m going to say again is that the mid-term impact of the arrangement is not material to earnings.
So draw your own conclusions from them.
It’s not a significant impact on cost for us.
There is very settlements of the deal itself as it relates to how we reward GE for leasing or the service arrangement moving forward however you want to put it in the construct? But from a perspective of your models moving forward we’re to hoping to see an improvement in revenue in the long run but the cost the incremental cost to us as you can imagine if it’s don’t material to earnings is de minimis moving forward.
And then just one last if that’s okay.
The malus payment does that only relate to the -- in terms of how they’re calculated is it a cost of your overall downtime like the overall spread costs in terms of your downtime or what are the components that go into -- even if you don’t want to quantify what are the components that go into malus subs? So we pay a dayrate for a pressure control; when the stack is down for whatever -- well for maintenance reasons or reliability issues then we don’t pay that.
Then on the top of that there is a construct that enables us as GE does provide an uptime metric which again I am not going to share with you all then a malus payment is due.
If however they provide a standard which is much higher than we are at today then of course we provide them a bonus payment because we will more than be rewarded by having additional revenue uptime on these rigs.
And our final question comes from the line of Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Thanks for the follow-up.
Did you agreement address renewal or extension terms after 10 years or will that only be revisited later in time? Ian is your question regarding renewal of the GE arrangement? Yes.
Sorry yes.
So we do have the ability to renew that agreement before the 10 years is up.
We’ll have given the complexity and what it means to continue or not I think there is a pretty substantial lead time in the agreement so we have to declare our intentions.
But yes there are provisions to renew that agreement.
And pricing is attached to those provisions already? In addresses some of the pricing topic it’s not pretty wider in that sense.
But yes that is a topic which -- obviously pricing is something 10 years in the future is not an easy undertaken.
So it’s addressed conceptually but it’s not an arithmetic calculation.
Thank you.
So thank you for participating in the call today and we look forward to speaking again with you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.