Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the first quarter 2011 DiamondRock Hospitality Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I  will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Mark Brugger CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Grace Anne.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by John Williams our President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would just like to remind everyone many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under Federal Securities laws and may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties described in our securities filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP in our earnings press release.
In reviewing current trends and logic fundamentals in the macroeconomic outlook we continue to believe that we are in the early stages of a strong and sustainable lodging recovery.
The major indicators that correlate with logic demands such as employment trends GDP growth corporate profits and corporate capital investment continue on their positive trajectory that started in 2010.
We expect this momentum to accelerate as confidence in the economy continues to grow.
Additionally the lack of meaningful new supply remains a critical storyline to this current cycle.
Consider the following 2 factors: First the 4-year Compound Annual Growth Rate or CAGR of supply entering this downturn was less than 1/2% much lower than the previous 2 lodging cycles which respectably experienced do supply as 4-year compound annual growth rate of 3 1/2% and almost 4%.
Second although annual supply growth peaked above 3% during the most recent downturn it is currently projected to be less than 1% during the next several years dramatically lower than the historical average.
Thus we believe that normal cyclical demand growth combined with limited supply environment will result in a robust and long lodging recovery.
We reported first quarter pro forma RevPAR growth of 4.7% and Hotel adjusted EBITDA margins expanded 48 basis points.
Our RevPAR and operating margins exclude Frenchman's Reef because it's undergoing a major renovation and related partial closure this year.
Our RevPAR growth was driven almost entirely by higher room rates that resulted from increasing pricing power and the positive mix shift away from the Discounted Leisure segment into the higher rate of Business Transient segment.
It is important to reiterate that DiamondRock reports filing the unusual Marriott fiscal quarters due to our portfolio's concentration of Marriott hotels.
Consequently our first quarter excludes March results for 7 of our hotels.
To provide a better comparison to first quarter results reported by our peers if our first quarter included March results for the 7 monthly hotels then first quarter RevPAR growth would have been 5.5% and profit margin growth would've been 73 basis points.
For the quarter DiamondRock generated adjusted EBITDA of $18.9 million and adjusted FFO of $11.8 million or $0.07 per share.
The first quarter results were solid despite some unique headwinds such as unusually poor weather in several markets and short-term supply absorption in New York and Vail.
It is worth noting that our first quarter is seasonally slow and represents less than 12% of our annual adjusted EBITDA.
Looking forward March and April results were on track and our outlook for the balance of this year remains very strong.
In the first quarter more than ¼ of our portfolio enjoyed double-digit RevPAR growth led by the Sonoma Renaissance Boston Renaissance Orlando Airport Marriott Charleston Renaissance and the Chicago Conrad.
Although excluded from our comparable RevPAR Renaissance REIT expectedly underperformed in the portfolio as groups were hesitant to book the hotel immediately prior to the commencement of our large renovations.
It's also worth noting that the Boston Westin and Chicago Marriott which are both significant drivers of our portfolio results are seasonally slow in the first quarter.
As John will discuss both of these markets are expected to be strong in the back half of the year.
Turning to capital structure.
DiamondRock continued to strengthen its already terrific balance sheet with $150 million equity offering in January and more recently $100 million nonrecourse loan on the previously unencumbered Minneapolis Hilton.
Today the company enjoys very conservative leverage with projected net debt to 2011 EBITDA of approximately 3.6x.
Importantly the company's balance sheet remains straightforward no preferred equity no corporate debt and 12 unencumbered hotels.
Moreover we project to have over $300 million in excess cash this year along with an undrawn $200 million corporate revolver.
All of this is potentially available as dry powder to pursue hotel acquisition opportunities.
With a solid pipeline we plan to be active in 2011.
Before turning the call over to John I want to provide a quick update on a few matters.
First the Allerton Chicago foreclosure.
As many of you know we took advantage of this distressed debt opportunity in early 2010 by buying a note at the substantial discount at prosecuting a foreclosure of the hotel.
We had a favorable hearing on foreclosure last month and the next step is summary judgment hearing in May.
We anticipate one or 2 outcomes this year either completion of the foreclosure giving us an attractive cost basis of less than $140 000 per key; or alternatively get a repay of the note in full at a substantial profit.
It remains hard to handicap which outcome is more likely but both are positive.
Additionally we want to provide update on the hotel being developed for DiamondRock in Times Square.
The demolition is complete on the site and construction is expected to start this summer.
We continue to be very bullish on this deal.
The completion is expected no later than mid-2013 and as a reminder our price-per-key on this deal is only about $450 000.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
Thanks Mark.
Given the unique headwinds in the first quarter we were pleased with the results for our portfolio and remain confident that the balance of the year will be strong particularly the second half.
Some of those unique headwinds included severe weather in the Northeast that caused group cancellations in Boston and impacted travel to New York City.
And an ice storm in Atlanta in January impacting both group and transient sales.
Chicago also had an impactful snowstorm.
However the trends remained positive with period 4 RevPAR up over 7% and group pace for the balance of the year is showing strength all of which give us confidence that the recovery remains on track.
Additionally as Mark mentioned the first quarter is the least statistically meaningful representing less than 12% of our annual EBITDA.
As I discuss portfolio first quarter operating trends for the balance of my comments in order to make it useful I'll exclude Frenchman's Reef from all of the numbers because the extensive renovations distorts comparisons.
Pro forma RevPAR increased 4.7% for the portfolio in fiscal Q1 as a result of a 4 1/2% increase in average daily rate and a small increase in occupancy.
The increase in portfolio RevPAR was driven by improvements in several room segments.
Group revenue increased 1.8% but business transient revenue by far the highest-rated segment was up an impressive 11.4% displacing lower rated Leisure and Discount Transient revenue which was up only 1.2%.
We expect this profitable shift in mix to continue throughout the year.
In the first quarter corporate and premium demand was very strong.
Room nights in these 2 categories increased 17.2% at a rate 6.7% higher than Q1 2010 resulting in a 25% increase in rooms revenue coming from the highest transient rate categories.
In addition special corporate revenue was up over 10 1/2% in the quarter.
Q1 also continued the positive trend of accelerated short term bookings.
In the quarter for the quarter group revenue booked was higher compared to Q1 2010 with most of the increase coming from higher group rates.
2011 group revenue pace continues to improve.
As of the end of Q1 group revenue pace is up almost 3% versus the same time last year this represents a 2 percentage point increase since last quarter and a 17.4 percentage point increase compared to Q1 2010.
2011 quarterly booking pace is up over 4% in the second half of the year.
We already have 77% of the group revenue on the books needed to hit the 2011 group revenue budget.
2012 group pace is strong as well with revenue on the books of 8.4%.
For the particularly bright outlook for Chicago up 10% and Boston up over 20% as they will benefit from good city-wide convention calendars next year.
Hotel adjusted EBITDA margin improved 47 basis points in the quarter and we remain vigilant about cost containment despite being impacted by items relatively unique to this quarter.
Margins were impacted by higher bonus accruals state unemployment charges medical costs lower food and beverage profits which I'll comment on later and higher support costs due to sales and marketing charges and higher repairs and maintenance costs.
Because of the seasonally low revenues in Q1 many of these items had an outsized impact on Q1 margins.
In 2010 we had some great success improving food and beverage revenues and profitability.
However total food and beverage revenue in Q1 this year was down 2.4%.
F&amp;B [Food and Beverage] departmental margins were challenged in the quarter.
The portfolio had 3 800 fewer group room nights in the quarter versus Q1 of 2010 significantly impacting our high margin banquet revenues.
Our asset management group remains focused on F&amp;B and is working closely with their operators to institute new action plans adjusting menus and operating hours and finding even more operating efficiencies.
Overall labor and benefits rose 4 1/2% in the quarter wages rose 2.4% and benefits were up 8.9% as a consequence of the items I mentioned earlier.
Productivity in the quarter was good.
Man hours per occupied room improved by 1% and sales per occupied room improved 1 1/2%.
Support costs per available room including property level G&amp;A repairs and maintenance utilities and sales and marketing were collectively up 4.2% in Q1 due mainly to higher sales and marketing costs and bonus accruals related to 2010 outperformance.
In 2009 we together with our operators identified over $10 million of cost savings in our hotels.
We preserved the bulk of those savings in 2010 and thus far in 2011.
Our asset management team is diligently monitoring our hotels to ensure these costs don't creep back in until occupancy increases warrant the additional costs.
Turning to CapEx.
DiamondRock expects to invest $65 million into the portfolio in 2011.
Most significantly we are engaged in the exciting $45 million renovation and repositioning project at St.
Thomas Frenchman's Reef Resort.
The repositioning of Marriott's flagship Caribbean resort will provide significant rate potential improved operating efficiency and dramatic energy efficiency and savings.
We've already seen great customer reaction with fourth quarter group pace of Frenchman's Reef up nearly 25% in this year and 2012 pace is up significantly as well.
After years of planning the project construction will commence in this quarter and conclude in October.
Two of the 4 resort buildings will be closed approximately 300 rooms during the seasonally slower period and will impact full year 2011 EBITDA by approximately $5.5 million.
Before I move on from the CapEx discussion I wanted to summarize several ROI initiatives and their results.
Over the past several years we have focused among other things on parking and energy projects.
In parking we've generated an incremental $6.5 million in profit through marketing studies analyzing competitive pricing and investing in new technology.
The enhanced revenue cost savings and internal control improvement from these projects have generated a 67% annual profit improvement.
We've also invested $3.7 million in various energy savings technology which in most cases pays back the investment in less than 2 years.
Now on to acquisitions.
Our 2010 acquisitions continue to outperform achieving a double-digit year-to-date RevPAR increase through March.
In 2011 we've previously announced that we have contracted to purchase at completion a development project at 42nd and Broadway in Times Square.
The hotel will be branded and we expect the hotel to contain about 285 rooms for a total investment around $128 million although there is a small chance we may be successful in obtaining entitlements for additional rooms.
Demolition has been completed and construction is scheduled to begin this summer.
We remain very excited about this exceptional location.
The pipeline continues to be strong and we've been active.
We are closed on several deals and we'll announce them after closing which we anticipate will be in the next 30 to 60 days.
We'll continue to be active on the acquisition front while remaining disciplined in our underwriting.
Our pipeline contains a number of interesting opportunities and we continue to mine attractive acquisitions in our target markets.
Overall we feel good that the lodging market recovery is continuing as demonstrated by continuing positive trends in group and transient pace.
And it should persist as increasing business investment recovering consumer confidence and constrained industry supply provide a very healthy environment for sustained growth in the lodging industry.
Mark? Thanks.
As John noted despite some headwinds in Q1 we remain bullish in lodging fundamentals as demand is improving and supply remains limited.
Quarterly our outlook continues to be for the hotel industry to deliver RevPAR growth of 6% to 8% in 2011.
We are reaffirming our guidance for DiamondRock to deliver comparable 2011 RevPAR growth in the range of 6% to 8%.
Based on our RevPAR outlook we expect DiamondRock to generate adjusted EBITDA of $156 million to $160 million.
Accordingly adjusted FFO is expected to range from $98 million to $101 million which assumes income tax expense of $7 million to $9 million.
This translates into adjusted FFO per share of $0.59 million to $0.61.
Adjusted FFO guidance was revised to reflect the impact of the recently announced $100 million financing on Minneapolis.
Note that no additional acquisitions are assumed for purposes of providing guidance.
In concluding the prepared remarks let me say that we believe DiamondRock is extremely well positioned to deliver shareholder value.
Our high-quality portfolio continues to reap the benefits of the lodging recovery.
Here are a few interesting data points to ponder in terms of long-term growth potential.
If our portfolio EBITDA margins return only to prior peak they would still increase 490 basis points from 2010.
Similarly if hotel EBITDA returns just to prior peak EBITDA of DiamondRock's comparable hotels would increase more than 45% over 2010 EBITDA.
Additionally we remain optimistic that thoughtful asset management initiatives like the Frenchman's Reef repositioning will enable our portfolio to outperform.
For an external growth we have already announced close to $500 million of acquisitions since early last year and our balance sheet and pipeline position us incredibly well to growth through additional opportunities.
With that we would now like to open up the call for any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from line of Ian Wiseman of ISI Group.
A couple of questions.
First on the decision to potentially terminate the contract with Hilton on the Conrad.
It looks like there's been considerable momentum at that property.
You did report 60% RevPAR growth so how do you think about the termination and what other flag would you consider? This is John.
Where we are with Hilton is we're in the process of evaluating what our action is going to be.
Their option to cure the termination failure comes up June 1.
We talked to Hilton at length we talked to some other brands as well.
And we remain kind of open to various potential actions there.
You're right the first quarter of the Conrad was good.
They earned occupancy by dropping the rates a little bit.
The question we have to ask ourselves and analyze is the Conrad brand going to maximize the value of that hotel? And that's really what we are in the process of trying to understand.
And just moving to acquisitions.
You said you're going to be active for the balance of this year.
We've seen a lot of price discovery in the gateway cities.
You do have exposure outside of those cities as well.
Can you maybe describe what the activity looks like or the potential pipeline looks like everywhere else in the U.S.
outside of gateway cities? Or are you still in the same deals in the primary markets? Ian we're focused on the primary markets and our target markets.
Thus far I'd say in the last 6 months we've looked at deals in New York City Denver Seattle San Francisco Miami Beach Los Angeles.
In some cases we were reluctant to achieve the pricing that was ultimately achieved.
In other cases we've been successful.
So it's really a function of our staying in the target markets and our feeling that it's not the right thing to do to stretch on price too far.
Right.
But if you look at sort of outside gateway cities like New York Boston Chicago and the West Coast is there deals coming to market in markets like Atlanta? Or I mean you mentioned -- I know you did the financing on Minneapolis.
I'm just trying to get an understanding that are people willing to go a little bit further out on a risk curve for higher yield at this point in the cycle? Or is there still capital concentrated in the primary markets? I think in general capital is concentrated in the primary markets.
We've demonstrated our acquisition of the Minneapolis property for $150-plus million.
We're not stuck -- we're not coastal centered if you will.
We see growth and opportunities in other markets like Denver like Minneapolis and we'll continue to do that.
I thought what you meant was more kind of middle the -- middle of America type markets like Kansas City St.
Louis.
We have not seen a fight [ph] coming there.
And now how would you describe the cap rate spread let's say between the coastal cities and a market like Atlanta or Denver or Minneapolis? So much goes into how you look at the cap rate what the potential improvement in the hotel is.
Currently there is a premium paid for the coastal cities whether it's 100 200 basis points.
In the case of San Francisco it's even more dramatic which some people don't understand some people do.
But in the fact of the matter is the coastal cities do achieve a premium but it depends in Minneapolis or Denver how much potential improvement there is what else is going for the deal? Let me just put it -- ask it a little bit different then I'll end the questions.
But if you look at them having IRRs in markets like New York City or the West Coast how would that compare to  a market like Denver or Atlanta? And what would that spread to? Would it be 200 basis points? It is Mark.
Yes the IRR there's different growth rates if you -- let's say you take a 10-year period.
So New York is going to grow faster than some of these other cities that you're mentioning.
So the IRR on unlevered basis and you're playing a little bit with what you think the extra cap rate must be differential but it's probably 100 to 150 basis points on an IRR basis.
The next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask you I guess 2 things.
On the room count for your Times Square development.
I know that you had been looking into a higher room count.
I'm just wondering kind of what was the process was on getting the clearance for the 285 rooms.
And is there a point where supply in New York starts to I guess concern you going forward? I mean I know it's -- it's traditionally thought of as a high barrier market but that's kind of proving not the case right now and just kind of maybe having your overall thoughts on supply in the market going forward.
It just looks like there's lots and lots of new hotel announcements.
Yes Smedes this is John again.
On your first question we achieved the additional 35 rooms without much in the way of variances.
The big jump we'd comment if we were able to achieve one particular variance with regard to a loading dock.
So I think we're probably at 285 which didn't require a lot of changes.
So that's probably where we wind up.
In terms of your question on supply in New York.
You're right.
A lot of rooms have come in to New York City and I think they've been felt in this first quarter.
Having said that the first quarter is from a volume standpoint the lowest of the 4 quarters and the thinking is that the depth of the demand in New York is such that the second third and fourth quarters will remain strong.
I think the jury's out.
I think we have to wait and see.
The phenomenon that's going on in New York that's caused this increase in supply is people have figured out the formula of taking mid-block locations very small sites and building spikes on those small sites and so they are able to achieve 150 to 300 room hotels where previously people really didn't pursue them.
A lot of the supply is on the West side and lower than mid-town and even now lower than Chelsea.
There are a couple more coming into Chelsea but not many so downtown.
I would say that our feeling is that supply is a risk but we think that the volume in New York the depth of demand particularly if the dollar stays where it is or continues to weaken will be such that the higher volume quarters will be able to absorb the demand or the supply.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Do you have a sense of what the construction cost per key are on the hotel that you're -- on this Times Square development if you're acquiring it for $450 000 do you have a sense of what it's going to cost to build? We have not been -- we agreed on a take-out price understanding there was a profit in it for the developer.
In terms of overall we're seeing $350 000 type per key costs in other areas.
I think Times Square is going to be higher because of the land costs.
But some of the other deals we've looked at in Chelsea and elsewhere are probably in the $300 000 to $350 000 cost range.
Yes Smedes this is Mark.
Just on the 42nd Street deal that we're doing.
It was to stress that deal that the current owner got in 2009.
So they bought it -- they bought it down at a huge discount and that's what gave them a low cost basis in the land.
And we think that's why we were able to achieve what we think is a very attractive price going in because we're taking advantage of their low basis from that stretched out deal.
Your next question comes from line of Ryan Meliker of Morgan Stanley.
First I was wondering it looked like you guys had some almost 100% of your RevPAR growth came from REIT but margins were only up 48 bps.
Can you give us some color on what you need to see at the property level to see margins? Or is it just more RevPAR growth? Is it more REIT growth? Or was 1Q more of an anomaly? I know Marriott had said during the first quarter call that 1Q margins were a little softer because of where expectations last year for 1Q 10 so bonuses acted [ph] things a little bit in margins in 1Q 11.
And the second question was regarding Marriott.
I was wondering if you can give us any color on how group sales are trending particularly with regards to sales force on whether you're seeing any concerns or not.
I know we've heard from a lot of owners that there will be some properties aren't necessarily too pleased with the sales force.
And I wanted to get some color on what you guys think.
Okay.
On the first question.
I think we mentioned what we view as well in some cases what we view as anomalies in the first quarter.
The other thing about the first quarter is that if you get a hit it's on a low volume quarter.
So it's an outsized impact on margin.
And I'll give you an example.
New Year's day holiday fell in our first quarter this year as opposed to 13th period or fourth quarter last year.
That $212 000 hit was 20 basis points almost on our margins.
So that just -- that tells you how a relatively small impact can have an outsized impact on our margins.
I think that the bonus issue will go away.
I think the unemployment tax will be spread across the year but because the other quarters are higher volume the impact will be less.
I think the food and beverage this quarter was an anomaly and it had a fairly measurable impact on our overall margins.
We are working hard to make sure it is an anomaly I'll represent that.
In terms of group sales our pace is up.
Sales force one is a relatively new program it's been rolled out.
I think the last market is being rolled out later this year where it has been in place for an extended time period like Washington D.C.
I think and we only have one small property here we are seeing a fairly impressive increase in that property whereas in the early years of sales force one the property loss grew to group sales.
So our view is that a its too early to make adjustment on sales force one.
I think a lot of what you're hearing out there is a bit of a snap reaction.
I think also that sales force one will get better as it becomes more mature and in general we are very confident that Marriott  is going to do what they have to do to make sales force one a success whether it's tweaking the sales force offices or tweaking the resources on property.
We're confident they'll get it right and we're going to help them.
No that make sense.
I'd have to agree with that last statement.
One other quick question for you guys in terms of the share count it looks like you're guiding for full year share count of $167 million shares so I think the weighted average in the first quarter was $168.6 million.
It's only about $1 million higher but is that implying share buybacks? Or is there something else going on that might lower that share count throughout the year? The $168.6 million are you referring to the back pages of the press release? Exactly.
That's the share count as of the end of the quarter which on a weighted average basis was obviously less than that for the first quarter.
Okay.
Do have the weighted average then for the quarter? We do.
Bear with me.
Ryan there is no share repurchase in our guidance or implied there.
It's $164 million for the first quarter.
Your next question comes from line of Enrique Torres of Green Street Advisors.
Its Nick Nickerson on behalf of Enrique.
We were wondering -- you acquired a bunch of hotels last year budgeted yields on '11 of 8%.
We were wondering where those are coming out now and what you're looking at on these more recent acquisitions for 2011 yields? Nick this is John.
I think we mentioned that the acquisitions last year were averaging double-digit RevPAR increases.
So in general they are over our underwriting.
I think Charleston is slightly down from our underwriting.
But cumulatively they're above it.
And in terms of what we're seeing now we've been fortunate we've been able to buy at basically 7 7 1/2 caps.
I think that number has come down and I think now we're looking at numbers in the 5 to 6 1/2 range.
Whether we pull a trigger on those or not is another question.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a quick question on first of all the group business comments.
Obviously your group revenue pace up to 3%.
Just could you give us a little bit more color on maybe kind of how you saw that trend in March and April? I think you said that there were some cancellations in some of the markets in January and February which makes sense but kind of wondering how much of a snapback you've seen in that business recently? Well I think as you pointed out January and February had some anomalies.
We had cancellations and we had snowstorms and ice storms that really did impact the actualization of the groups.
What we're seeing across the balance of the year is a relatively flat slightly up second quarter and then a relatively strong second half.
We want to concentrate on the second quarter because the second and fourth quarters are the biggest group quarters quarter of course being the highest volume quarters so it's encouraging that that's up over 4%.
But for the back half of the year we're looking at a plus 4% and generally an acceleratingly positive trend.
Shaun this is Mark I'll just add for 2012 we're already seeing pace up well over 8%.
And some markets like our Boston Westin the pace for 2012 is already up over 20%.
So we're very encouraged about the trends and we're very encouraged about next year.
That's helpful.
And then I guess to go back to the F&amp;B issue in the quarter I mean kind of any sense on how much of that is group-related.
And I mean it makes sense that the Banquet business which is also high margin relies a lot on that on that Group business being in the hotel.
So I mean do you need to get the group mix up in order to get that business to fall back in or is there some more I guess like property level specific things that played into that shortfall? I think what we need to do is obviously group contributes to banquet but local catering is the other key.
And in the first quarter local catering is just traditionally slow.
So our pace on local catering for the balance of the year looks better.
Margin is definitely driven by your level of banquet and catering sales.
So that's a focus.
On the outlet side we spent a lot of time in the last year and a half working with our operators to reduce hours to adjust menus to adjust staffing levels to make outlets profitable in the hotels.
That was a major effort on our part and we achieved some great results.
We just have to make sure that we preserve those results going forward.
And then I guess just one last one on the Allerton I mean I know the process is still working there.
But just kind of wondering I mean strategically if you guys were to take over -- well first of all I mean do you have any more I guess in terms of timing about when you think that process will be resolved one way or the other? And then secondarily if you guys take over the hotel your thoughts on I guess getting a brand in that box.
Shaun this is Mark.
On the process there's another hearing set for this Friday on our summary judgment motion.
A lot of it depends on what the judge does.
They can rule quickly.
They could take their time in ruling.
Once they rule then you have to go through the auction process of doing notice and whatnot and that probably takes another 2 or 3 months to wrap it all up.
So that's the timeline so we're a little bit at the whim of how the judge -- the judge's calendar system and his deliberation time.
As far as brand options the thought is once we actually have ownership of assets that's probably the appropriate time to really engage a number of different brands on what makes sense.
It would be a full-service hotel and it could be everything from a well-known boutique operator to one of the major brands.
We'll assess all our options at that time.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital markets.
LLC</strong> I apologize I jumped on a little bit late.
Just going back to the group bookings did you give the rate for '11 as well as I think you mentioned some pretty attractive bookings for '12.
I'm just curious to what you're seeing on the REIT versus the pace there? Mike this is John.
The rate is the bulk of the growth going forward in both this year and next.
Although the fourth quarter has a nice room night bump as well but we're seeing some positive trends on rates.
LLC</strong> Okay you talked a little bit I think about Boston I don't -- could you give us kind of a sense of what you're seeing in Chicago as well as Minneapolis some of your larger group houses there? In terms of citywide activity? LLC</strong> Yes.
That'd be helpful.
Yes.
We didn't mention Boston but in the case of Boston 2012 has more city-wides and more BCEC events which is important to us because we're located adjacent to the BCEC as opposed to Heinz in the Back Bay.
In Chicago 2012 room nights are basically at 3/4 of pace and pace is scheduled to be above 2011 levels.
So there's every possibility that they'll get up the pace and 2012 will be a good convention year.
New York City is probably down a little bit this year and it's going to be probably flat next year.
It doesn't impact us that much at our Courtyards and the Chelsea Hilton Garden Inn so hosts for example would chart that a lot more closer than we do.
In Austin we're looking at strong market-wide group sales this year.
Of course in Worthington we had the Super Bowl this year.
And overall I think city-wides are flat to slightly up next year those are up.
And Atlanta is basically head paced for 2011 with '12 scheduled to be up.
LLC</strong> That's helpful.
Did you give the statistics on corporate negotiate year or corporate negotiate rate first quarter? Unless [indiscernible] on that and how much you saw in the special corporate [ph] as well.
Ours was up 10 1/2% in the first quarter.
In general I think high single-digits would be a rough generalization.
But it sort of depends on the market.
Generally a rate of -- or excuse me a range of probably 7% to 12%.
LLC</strong> Just finally in terms of the acquisition pipeline.
Should we generally tend to focus more so on abrupt schedule but we have seen a few select service how would you characterize the pipeline at this point? A little bit more select service in urban markets or are you still primarily focused on the urban upper upscale? We're primarily focused on upper upscale.
We do have one limited service hotel in our pipeline but that limited service hotel looks acts and feels like a full-service hotel because there is a leased restaurant connected to it and it provides room service and catering as well as providing three meals a day of breakfast lunch and dinner.
So it acts like a full-service hotel and achieve rates like a full-service hotel.
LLC</strong> And then finally Sean not to leave you out.
Can you just talk about what you're seeing in terms of -- I know you guys are -- you just did a new financing there on the Hilton curious as to what you're hearing in terms of terms rates LTVs things of that nature.
Sure Mike.
We're still continuing to see positive momentum in the secured markets.
We're seeing LTVs creep into the mid-60s for some high-quality assets.
We're seeing -- as the hotels become more accepting of securitizations we're seeing debt yields in the 10 to 12 range which has obviously come in from where it would have been 3 to 6 months or so ago.
We were very happy with the terms that we got on the Minneapolis financing which represents a mid-60% LTV at a very attractive all in rate for a 10-year fixed mortgage.
So we think that's a strong representation of the strengthening of the secured market.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Malvans [ph] of KeyBanc.
I just had a quick question.
I wonder if you could give more specifics on the acquisition environment specifically where you're seeing the most opportunities and what markets in particular are most attractive to you right now? Sure.
This is John again.
I think the most activity is in the gateway cities.
The pricing is most aggressive there which is obviously attractive to potential sellers.
I think I mentioned that we're pursuing in our target markets cities like New York City Denver Seattle San Francisco Miami Beach L.A.
There's not I mean -- now I'm speaking only upper upscale because there's significant limited service activity in the middle of the country but I think the bulk of the activity is on the coast.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Donlan of Janney Capital Markets.
Mark first question on the guidance on the EBITDA guidance.
Was decision not to move your guidance was that just more of a function of first quarter kind of playing out how you guys thought it would? Or was first quarter a little bit weaker than you expected but you expect third or second third and fourth quarters to be a little bit more robust than you previously expected?" Yes on our guidance.
We maintained guidance.
First quarter there were some weather events and some other things -- a couple of properties were a little bit behind but if we looked at the revised forecast for the full year and we look at our group pace we still feel confident with our prior guidance based on how the year is going to play out.
Okay.
And then just going back to the Allerton and if you could handicap it do you think you're going to likely wind up with this hotel or do you still think there's a strong potential for you guys to just sell the debt piece as it is? Yes its hard to note.
There is a very well known broker that's engaged by the what is now the equity and they're trying to call for offers in the next week or so.
We're obviously in the dark on how that process is going.
So if they're successful and they can pay us off so be it.
If not we'll continue along the lines of foreclosure and try to get ownership of the hotel.
We're okay either way.
Okay understood.
And then from a -- I guess Sean from a capacity standpoint you guys have quite a bit of cash now that you've erased this debt.
Just kind of curious and you have your lines available to you just kind of curious and you maintained a very low leverage where do you think your kind of capacity is before you have to come back to the acquisition capacity before you have to come back to the equity markets? Dan I think our capacity is right around $400 million is where we think we could comfortably deploy that capital.
Obviously capping equity markets is based on specific market conditions the types of deals were looking at et cetera.
But we think we're very comfortable at $400 million as our dry powder today.
Okay.
And then just lastly on the acquisition environment.
Some of your peers have been fairly aggressive.
Just kind of curious why haven't you guys been as aggressive? Is it more or less just pricing where you're seeing returns? Is it that some of these hotels are independently branded and you guys have historically been more associated with branded hotels? Any type of comments you could provide would be helpful.
This is Mark.
Most of the deals we've taken a look at and taken a run at it's been pricing.
Obviously if it's an auctioned deal the highest bid won.
But we pursued a number interesting opportunities but we are staying disciplined with our underwriting and with the price number of these opportunities.
Okay.
And just curious come independently branded would you guys potentially pursue some of these independently branded hotels that are probably coming to market to in the next 2 to 3 months? The answer is in the right markets we would pursue it.
If it was a D.C.
New York San Francisco-type markets where we think the independent names can...
there is enough demand there that they make their own brand.
So in markets like that we would consider those opportunities.
The next question comes from the line of Sule Laypan of Barclays Capital.
I was wondering if you could clarify the comment you made on guidance.
So is your outlook for second third and fourth quarter today up or flat from what it was 3 months ago? It's up slightly.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then did I hear correctly you said on the 42nd Street development there is not much chance that could be upsized now? Yes we're -- that's right.
I think the probabilities are that it will be 286 rooms.
Okay.
And then just lastly the room renovations at the Courtyard and the Renaissance Waverly have those started already or when will they start? They're going to start in the back half of the year.
And you have no questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Grace Anne.
To everyone on this call we would like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
And you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stacy and I'll be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today to Mr.
Mark Brugger Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Thanks Stacy.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to DiamondRock Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by John Williams our President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would just like to remind everyone many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties described in our Securities filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP in our earnings press release.
Let me start the call today by saying that the lodging recovery is going well.
As the industry is coming off six consecutive quarters of demand growth we continue to be very optimistic about the future of the travel business.
With recent mix macroeconomic indicators and headline news it's understandable that some investors have grown more cautious.
However based on the trends we are seeing in our portfolio and the industry comparison to trough results and constrained new hotel supply it is our strong belief that we are setting up for a significant multi-year recovery in lodging.
In particular we are very optimistic about DiamondRock during this cycle.
Despite some unevenness in the first half of the year working pace and transient trends support a stronger second half of 2011.
More importantly we expect our portfolio to perform very well in 2012 due to several factors including: One strong city-wide calendars in Chicago and Boston our 2 largest group markets; two a renovated and repositioned Frenchman's Reef back online; three increased exposure to New York City; and four strong growth from Salt Lake City Marriott due to the opening of $1 billion City Creek development surrounding the hotel.
For the second quarter 2011 DiamondRock's portfolio of hotels generated RevPAR growth of 6.4% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin improvement of over 100 basis points.
This RevPAR margin data is for our 25 owned hotels as of the end of the quarter and excludes Frenchman’s Reef.
For the quarter DiamondRock generated Adjusted EBITDA of $41.1 million and adjusted FFO of $0.15 per share.
It is worth noting that the renovation disruption of Frenchman's Reef displaced approximately $5 million of revenues and $3.5 million of EBITDA during the second quarter alone which was modestly more than we originally estimated.
Our second quarter results were led by outstanding performance at the Chicago Conrad and the Marriott Atlanta Alpharetta both of which grew RevPAR over 20%.
We also experienced double-digit RevPAR growth at 5 additional hotels including our hotels in Charleston Sonoma Chelsea New York City Oak Brook Hills Chicago and Salt Lake City.
Our single hotel in the Washington D.C.
market gained market share with RevPAR increasing a respectable 6.1%.
With all that said year-to-date group revenues and in particular group spend in the portfolio has been behind our expectations particularly at 2 of our largest hotels the Westin Boston and Chicago Marriott.
Despite strong overall transient demand in both Boston and Chicago the softness in second quarter citywide resulted at least 2 convention hotels being down 7% to last year in group room nights and 9% in highly profitable banquet and AV business.
Fortunately both hotels expect stronger group business for the back half of 2011 with group revenue fees being up almost 8% to last year.
Even better for 2012 the Chicago Marriott and Westin Boston are collectively showing group fees up over 14%.
We remain committed to and excited about the Chicago and Boston markets going forward.
Turning to acquisitions.
The company has been very active during 2010 and 2011.
It's been a great time to buy.
Since early last year DiamondRock has completed almost $900 million of hotel-related investments in 8 separate transactions.
Since the start of second quarter alone the company acquired the Lexington Hotel in Midtown New York the JW Marriott Denver and the Courtyard by Marriott downtown Denver.
In addition early this year we agreed to acquire a hotel under development in Times Square.
Each deal represents excellent value provides significant upside over the next few years and enhances the overall DiamondRock portfolio.
Although John will discuss our recent deals in more detail I do want to provide a few data points from the hotels acquired since early last year.
First the hotels were purchased at attractive valuations averaging an 11.8x multiple projected 2012 hotel EBITDA.
Second the hotels increased our portfolio quality raising portfolio RevPAR by $7 and increased margins by 225 basis points.
And third we increased our exposure to markets with excellent long-term growth prospects including increasing our profits derived from New York City from 9% in 2010 to over 25% beginning in 2013.
On a related note we continue to evaluate selling certain non-core hotels over the next 18 months to create additional investment capacity to invest in high-growth opportunities.
Now turning to our capital structure and balance sheet.
In our opinion balance sheet strength I think gets the focus it deserves at this stage of a lodging cycle.
Since the company's inception DiamondRock has remained committed to low leverage and a straightforward capital structure.
We believe that over an extended period this will yield stronger returns for our shareholders provide capacity to pay a predictable and sustained dividend and prevent value-destructive capital decisions under duress during the inevitable next cyclical slowdown.
We believe that our balance sheet distinguishes us from a number of our peers.
Moreover providing income to our shareholders is very important to us.
Our dividend yield is over 3% is well covered and substantially higher than many of our peers.
Our projected 2011 net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is a moderate 5.4x.
The solid debt ratio should only get better in 2012 as hotel cash flows improve and we regain the displaced renovation business at Frenchman’s Reef.
While we believe that this ratio is conservative in its own right it is even more meaningful when taken into consideration that we did not have any preferred equity outstanding and we have no complicated joint ventures.
Before turning the call over to John I want to provide a quick update on a few other matters.
First property taxes.
Property taxes are notoriously difficult to predict due to timing of reassessments and appeal settlements as evidenced by our positive results in Chicago and Atlanta during last year's fourth quarter.
We are currently actively managing tax yield at 15 of our 26 hotels.
The pilot tax program at the Boston Westin ended on June 30.
We recently received our 2012 tax assessment which somewhat surprisingly raised the hotels' annual property taxes.
Although we are taking steps to appeal this new assessment we will accrue for the higher property taxes in our forecast.
The increase in property taxes will have a $1 million impact in the second half of 2011 which was not reflected in our prior guidance.
Second the Allerton Chicago.
As many of you know we took advantage of this distressed debt opportunity last year by buying the note at a substantial discount the equivalent of about $140 000 per key.
Despite triggering a recourse guarantee the owner put the hotel into bankruptcy last quarter.
We intend to see the process through and are vigorously pursuing our rights in bankruptcy as a secured creditor.
We will have more to report on our next call but we now anticipate the process will be completed in the next 6 to 12 months.
In the meantime we expect to collect $3 million in cash interest payments from the note this year.
Additionally we want to update you in the hotel being developed for DiamondRock in Times Square.
The demolition is complete and construction is expected to start late this year.
Hilton has approved the powerful Hilton Garden Inn brand for the hotel.
As a reminder the hotel is expected to open in 2013 and our price per key on this deal is fixed at only about $450 000 per key.
We remain very very bullish on this deal.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
Thanks Mark.
For the second quarter DiamondRock's pro forma RevPAR excluding Frenchman's Reef increased 6.4% to just over $124.
Our RevPAR growth was driven by a 4.2% increase in ADR and a 1.5 percentage point gain in occupancy.
We're pleased with the portfolio of room revenue performance especially in light of the group challenges Mark mentioned in Boston and Chicago.
Our RevPAR growth was propelled by a 9.3% increase in business transient revenue which represents our most profitable segment.
Our business transient revenue increased to 31% of total room revenue for the quarter which is up from 29% in 2010.
We're still below our historic business transient mix of 35% of total revenue.
We're encouraged by the continuing demand growth from this segment as this is a segment that is most susceptible to negative economic news.
Leisure revenue was flat due to selling 5 400 fewer room nights or 2.7% of total portfolio leisure rooms as a result of displacement from the renovation of Frenchman’s Reef.
As Mark mentioned our second quarter group room night production was lower than 2010.
We sold 9 100 or 3.5% fewer group rooms than last year primarily as a result of difficult comps and city-wide challenges in Chicago Boston and our 2 Texas properties.
The lower rooms sold negatively impacted our high-margin banquet sales for the quarter.
These 4 hotels accounted for 100% of the portfolio of banquet and AV sales shortfall to Q2 2010.
It's encouraging that the portfolio group pace indicates a stronger second half of 2011 and a very good 2012.
For the second half of the year group booking pace by revenue is up about 2.7% with Boston Westin pacing impressively at up over 15%.
Most encouraging 2012 booking pace is up a robust 10% compared to the same time last year for the portfolio.
Both Chicago and Boston our 2 most significant group hotels are expected to benefit from strong citywide convention calendars in 2012.
Boston Westin's pace is up over 16% for 2012 and Chicago Marriott's pace is up over 12% for the year.
In reviewing our portfolio performance many of our hotels turned in strong quarterly results.
I'll just point out a few top performers in Q2.
Sonoma Renaissance's RevPAR increased over 15% as leisure was very strong and midweek group has improved.
The JW Marriott Denver experienced RevPAR growth of almost 16% due to strong production from both group and leisure.
The Chicago Conrad's RevPAR increased over 20% due to increased business transient and group.
Acquired in 2010 the Charleston Renaissance continues to outperform with quarterly RevPAR growth over 13%.
Boeing is generating midweek business demand and leisure continues to be strong on the weekends.
However Chicago Marriott downtown our largest asset by revenue underperformed in the quarter with RevPAR growing only 2.3%.
These results materially impacted our consolidated results.
The hotel sold 5 600 fewer group rooms than last year because of a tough prior-year comparison and some implementation challenges with Marriott's sales transformation program.
We're working closely with property-level and senior management of Marriott to improve sales transformation by adjusting sales resources and responsibilities to improve booking pace at the hotel.
We've already seen results from our combined efforts as pace is up 5% in the crucial fourth quarter.
And as I mentioned 2012 pace is up over 12%.
The 2012 citywide convention calendar in Chicago shows room nights up almost 30%.
The Boston Westin RevPAR grew only 2.5% although the hotel gained 3 percentage points of market share during the quarter.
Boston Westin is our second largest asset by revenue.
The results were impacted by the BCEC convention calendar which was down 38% in room nights in the second quarter but will be up 10% for the balance of the year.
The BCEC convention calendar shows 21 citywide conventions in 2012 versus 17 this year and a 46% increase in projected room nights.
Cost containment and profit margins were a bright spot in the second quarter as we managed to improve EBITDA profit margins by over 100 basis points.
The margin expansion was impressive in light of the challenging group results in particular the $3 million year-over-year decline in food and beverage revenues concentrated in high-margin banquet sales.
Our entire team remains committed to cost containment and is focused on maximizing profits.
We believe that our focused asset management is one of the strengths of DiamondRock.
Let me give you a few examples of our successes in asset management.
We've achieved tremendous returns by focusing on energy initiatives ranging from simply installing energy-efficient light bulbs upgrading thermostats in the rooms to conserve energy when the room is unoccupied investing in energy-efficient kitchen equipment and implementing green programs in the hotels to reduce housekeeping costs by helping the environment.
In 2007 we implemented a successful portfolio parking program to employ best-in-class strategies to maximize parking profits including implementing automated self-parking systems reviewing pricing practices and changing vendors.
These initiatives have resulted in nearly a 70% increase in parking profits at our hotels.
We've increased productivity at our hotels consistently over the past several years by increasing efficiency at all levels of management and hourly associates.
We've combined management positions in many hotels.
We've revamped housekeeping at several of our hotels by differentiating stay-over versus checkout room cleaning procedures.
We've improved food and beverage profitability by adjusting outlet hours managing menu design to reduce food and labor costs implementing banquet preparation efficiencies and combining kitchens to reduce costs.
These are permanent improvements and should lead to better profit flow through next peak.
Turning to capital spending.
DiamondRock will spend $65 million on capital to improve its portfolio in 2011 with a big focus on the dramatic renovation and repositioning of the Frenchman's Reef resort in St.
Thomas.
The reaction from group meeting planners has been better than expected.
Groups are actively booking the hotel and group revenue pace is up 20% in Q4 and is up substantially in 2012 at rates approaching peak levels.
This project will solidify Frenchman’s Reef position as Marriott's flagship resort in the Caribbean.
The project has 2 major components: First we will be creating a new guest experience by creating a new luxury pool complex luxury spa and fitness center and completing a property-wide rooms renovation.
Second we will upgrade the hotel infrastructure and energy system.
This will dramatically improve the guest experience by replacing ineffective PTAC units which allow very humid air to enter the rooms with a new fan coil system which will deliver conditioned air more efficiently cooled into the guest room.
We'll also generate our own power at the resort allowing us to get off the grid of the extremely inefficient island energy provider.
This phase of the renovation will significantly reduce our energy cost at the hotel by reducing energy consumption approximately 40% and our cost per kilowatt hour over 20% saving well over $1 million annually.
The project commenced May 1 and should be substantially complete by October 1.
Two of the 4 resort buildings are closed approximately 300 rooms and renovation disruption will impact full year 2011 EBITDA by approximately $6.5 million which has increased by $1 million from our original disruption estimate.
The variance is a result of incremental costs we've added to improve guest experience during renovation and higher energy costs.
Turning to acquisitions.
2011 like 2010 has been a very active period for DiamondRock.
I'd like to touch on each of our 2011 acquisitions.
Our first deal of 2011 was a take-out commitment for the Times Square Hilton Garden Inn.
We feel that this represents a rare opportunity to own a newly developed hotel in one of the best locations in Manhattan.
The Times Square area is among the most sought-after transient destinations in the world and this site is adjacent to the former Knickerbocker Hotel at the intersection of 42nd Street and Broadway one of the highest-traffic intersections in Manhattan.
The hotel will be less than one block from iconic Bryant Park.
Over 5 million square feet of office space has been developed over the past several years within a half block of the hotel including the new Bank of America Tower and the Verizon building.
Additionally some of the highest per square foot retail rental locations surround the 42nd and Broadway intersection.
We anticipate that the combination of the hotel's premier location and significant demand generators will allow the hotel to quickly generate an unlevered annual yield of more than 10% on our investment when it opens in 2013.
Our second deal was the acquisition of the 196-room JW Marriott Denver at Cherry Creek in an off-market transaction.
The high-quality newly renovated hotel is located in Denver's affluent in-town neighborhood of Cherry Creek.
The property has consistently been the market leader among its competitive set which consists of the highest quality hotels in Denver and was renovated in the first quarter.
Denver has long been one of our target markets because of its superior RevPAR growth rates over the past 25 years and excellent growth prospects.
The Denver market has been one of the top 5 lodging market measured by RevPAR growth since 1987 the first year Smith Travel began keeping records substantially outpacing markets such as San Francisco San Diego and Seattle.
The hotel is the only Denver property to be featured on Conde Nast Travelers 2011 Gold List.
The purchase price represents 11.5x multiple of 2012-forecasted EBITDA.
The third acquisition in 2011 was our largest the 712-room Lexington Hotel in New York for $335 million or $471 000 per key.
The hotel's forecasted 2011 RevPAR of $198 is 70% above our portfolio average and is expected to generate hotel adjusted EBITDA margins that are 12 percentage points higher than our portfolio average.
We underwrote executed the purchase and sale agreement and closed on this hotel in less than 8 weeks.
We're currently evaluating the brand options for the Lexington Hotel and are finalizing a new master plan to upgrade the hotel.
Our most recent acquisition the 177-room Courtyard in downtown Denver was acquired in an off-market transaction from the seller of the JW Marriott at Cherry Creek.
This $46 million investment brings DiamondRock's total investment in the Denver market to 373 rooms and approximately $130 million.
The Courtyard Denver is arguably the best-located hotel in the city.
The hotel is consistently #1 in its competitive set of upscale hotels in Denver.
The hotel achieved a RevPAR premium to the nearest full-service Marriott for 7 consecutive years.
The hotel a redeveloped historic department store is centrally located on the 16th Street pedestrian mall in the heart of Denver's CBD.
With its premier location recently completed renovation and strong brand the hotel will continue to achieve full-service rates with a limited service cost structure which is a model we have and will continue to seek.
Including our 2010 acquisitions we've invested approximately $900 million in well-priced and well-located hotels which collectively dramatically increased portfolio RevPAR profit margins and growth rates.
The acquisition market continues to be active and we're evaluating a number of opportunities.
While we will continue to work hard looking at all potential acquisition opportunities the company's primary focus over the summer is on maximizing the value of our existing portfolio by integrating the new hotels into our asset management program evaluating potential rebranding options for the Lexington Hotel and the Conrad Chicago evaluating and planning valuable renovation opportunities and ensuring that best practices are implemented at our recent acquisitions.
Before turning the call back over to Mark let me just say that in spite of the macro headwinds I still feel good that the lodging market recovery is continuing as demonstrated by the continuing positive trends in the industry and in our portfolio.
And it's been my experience that even with some choppiness these recovery stages last for several years.
I think DiamondRock is in a great position today as we can selectively grow and refine our portfolio to maximize investor returns.
Mark? Thanks.
As John noted we remain constructive on lodging fundamentals.
Demand continues to improve.
Supply remains fairly limited dropping below 1% in the second quarter.
Accordingly our outlook for the lodging industry is for full-service hotels to generate RevPAR increases in 2011 of 6% to 8%.
We expect DiamondRock's portfolio to deliver RevPAR growth in the range of 6% to 8% as well with our current operator forecast around the middle of that range.
Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $172 million to $177 million.
This range incorporates both the incremental $1 million disruption in Frenchman's Reef and the incremental $1 million in property taxes at the Westin Boston.
Based on our EBITDA expectation adjusted FFO per share will range from $0.66 to $0.69 for 2011.
In concluding the prepared remarks let me say that DiamondRock is well positioned to deliver shareholder value for several key reasons.
One our portfolio has tremendous upside in this recovery.
As hotel EBITDA returns just to prior peak EBITDA at DiamondRock's comparable hotels will increase more than 45% over 2010.
Two our acquisitions are creating shareholder value.
DiamondRock not only bought at attractive prices with assets that have value-add opportunities these deals have improved our portfolio quality and position the company for even higher growth going forward.
Three there are numerous value-add opportunities to be mined within our existing portfolio.
We've demonstrated our ability to create value with repositionings rebrandings parking initiatives cost containment efforts and energy programs.
Going forward we have significant upside opportunities the include the Frenchman’s Reef reposition the energy project that is under way the repositioning and rebranding opportunities at the Lexington Hotel and the Conrad Chicago and the expansion parcel lot at our Westin Boston.
Lastly we believe that our capital structure continues to distinguish DiamondRock from many of its peers with our conservative debt level no preferred equity issuance and a significant and well-covered dividend.
With that we would now like to open up the call for any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
The first question I just want to ask a clarification.
So that change in guidance the $1 million from Frenchman’s Reef already has taken place and the $1 million property tax has not yet is that correct? Substantially the $1 million property tax is the back half for the year.
We just got that assessment so that will kick in starting in July.
And most of the incremental $1 million in disruption was in the second quarter.
And then in terms of the second quarter what else came as a surprise to you if anything? Well I think the group F&amp;D[ph] contribution was lower than we anticipated.
And we mentioned particularly at the Boston Westin and Chicago Marriott.
So we would have anticipated -- we originally anticipated that the group spend of the groups coming to the hotels was going to be stronger than what actually came through.
Few other things one you mentioned that the 3 recent acquisitions in the 2012 multiples individually and in an aggregate.
Can you give us a sense of what kind of growth assumptions you have for those? Let me try to do the math.
I don't have it on a consolidated basis.
I'll have to get back to you on that one.
On a couple of other things.
Just in clarity of the margins in the press release it looks like the 3 hotels with maybe the most negative performance Austin Fort Worth and Vail any sense -- was there anything going on in any of those 3 markets that stands out? Will this is John.
Yes.
In Austin there's been a tremendous increase in the number of rooms in downtown Austin.
So where we used to get compression on a fairly common basis from citywide conventions we no longer get that because of the increase in supply and there's more coming.
So the hotel has had to do much more in-house booking which was a little bit of an adjustment in their marketing efforts.
We think they're making progress.
Their 2012 pace is very good and -- very very good and the back half of the year I think has promise.
In Fort Worth as you know the city subsidized the Omni to be built next to the Convention Center.
That's kind of thinned things out for everyone and the hotels is still adjusting to that and the Omni is still in the stabilization process.
In Vail we had a first quarter issue.
We had new supply in the market to the tune of about 38% of the Vail supply.
It was a new Four Seasons and it was rebranding of a hotel The Sebastian which also added rooms.
That created -- that and the typical demand generators on the East Coast and Dallas were not as strong as the hotel had anticipated.
So we didn't have a big enough group base so we lost some business there.
Just one final question.
Can you explain the issue with the Conrad? You had a great quarter and just what's going on exactly there? The Conrad is having a great -- had a great second quarter.
And a lot of that has to do with the fact that it is closer on to the luxury segment than the big Marriott.
And of course they went down harder than the downtown Marriott so their comeback is a little stronger.
Also the hotel has focused very effectively on corporate transient and small group.
And so they've done a very good job in the last several months of booking small groups and thereby compressing the hotel and getting better rates on the corporate transient.
This is Mark.
Just to add on the brand itself Hilton failed its performance test under the management agreement.
So they're operating currently under a 90-day -- a 30-day management agreement at our option.
So we're currently evaluating talking to Hilton and another global operator about the best way forward for that hotel.
Well just a look back on I know you dropped off your question earlier on the acquisitions that assuming an 18% EBIT increase in 2012 over 2011? And also I'd note the 2 Denver deals both were renovated in Q1 of 2011 so that's an easy comp in part for them.
Your next question comes from the line of Sule Laypan with Barclays Capital.
Hi it's Sule.
I just was wondering as you think about future acquisitions which markets are most attractive right now in terms of pricing? And on the flip side are there any markets that are not obviously are getting too pricy? Let's see.
I think at this point the cap rates that we have seen in 2011 versus 2010 have been materially lower this year.
I think everyone's focused on the coastal cities and I think that's compressing cap rates.
We had looked at a couple of deals recently where the pricing just got out of our range.
So if that sort of thing continues then cap rates will continue to compress.
But I think what we're seeing with stock prices doing what they're doing I think we're going to see a slowdown in the price escalation for the short term anyway.
In terms of markets where pricing is attractive they tend to be markets that we're really not looking at because they're lower-growth markets.
And just I noticed that the Courtyard on Fifth Avenue underperformed the other in New York City hotels by a bit.
I'm just wondering if there is anything specific driving that? Yes they had some comp set issues.
The Algonquin Hotel close to the Fifth Avenue Courtyard became an Autograph Collection a Marriott Autograph Collection and that impacted the hotel somewhat.
The Hotel Tudor became a Hilton-affiliated hotel and that also had a bit of an impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Just a few questions to shoot them off first just kind of going on the Allerton  can you just talk about maybe a third option such as maybe selling the loan maybe just don't want to deal with it for the next 6 to 12 months if that is an option.
And then with the loan it seems like you've collected a little over $1 million year-to-date but you still expect to receive $3 million by the end of the year is there seasonality with that? Sure this is Mark.
As far as what we're going to do with the note our current plan is to pursue the process.
We're the secured creditor in bankruptcy.
We have a series of hearings scheduled over the next several months and that's the current course.
Would we consider selling the note if we got a par offer? I think we've always indicated that we would be sellers of the note or we'd be fine being satisfied if the note close to its face amount.
So those options remain.
As far as the collectability what we're getting paid on the interest I'll let Sean answer that.
Sure.
Eli with respect to seasonality of Chicago Chicago was a very seasonal market.
The first quarter is a very slow quarter.
So the Allerton is cash flow negative.
During that quarter -- during the first quarter rather so we really didn't collect much of any interest.
As we head into late spring and summer and the fall the cash flows are much more positive with the hotel which generates cash sufficient to pay us our interest.
And then just -- you then touched on a little bit on in the prepared remarks but just on sales transformation it sounds like you've made a lot of headway with Marriott there.
Do you think there's more to be done? Or are the issues with the program behind it? Or what's your latest thought on the sales transformation? This is John again Eli.
The sales transformation process is in different stages in different markets.
So while in Chicago we hope that we've gone a long way towards solving the problem.
We're not finished working on that yet.
So we'll continue that in some of the newly introduced hotels into the system.
And we have a little better understanding of what some of the pitfalls are and we're trying to work with Marriott to minimize those pitfalls.
But I would say -- and then in established markets they're also making some adjustments.
Even where the hotels have been in for a period of time and have shown RevPAR index increases they're still trying to refine the program and make it better.
If you look at sales transformation in general it was a huge program that required huge adjustments not only in sort of strategy but also just in the jobs of individual salespeople it created a lot of uncertainty.
And so everyone knew it was not going to be a simple transformation and it's proven to be as difficult as everyone thought.
But I think as we refine it and as we get more experience with it I think everyone will be more comfortable with it.
And we have every expectation that the program will be very successful.
And then just finally on the Radisson it sounds like you're getting close to making a decision.
Do you know when you'll have something buying[ph]? Also it sounded like you were planning on at least putting some more money into it.
Are you definitely -- are you going to go ahead with some temporary branding or maybe you'll upgrade the rooms but won't do any type of rebranding? And then that's it.
Okay.
We haven't made that branding decision yet.
We're right in the middle of that process.
It's a master planning process.
It's an investment analysis process.
And then it's of course a pro forma process.
So we're doing all of those things as we speak.
We anticipate that by late fall we'll make an internal decision as to what to do.
And then we'll finalize the planning process to get it done by spring or soon thereafter.
This is Mark.
Our original underwriting on the deal has about $25 million of capital over the first several years for not only a rooms redo but just a general upgrade and repositioning of the hotel itself.
So that's in our original underwriting.
We've engaged designers and have a team of architects and project managers currently working on different options for the hotel.
And we're engaged in discussions detailed discussions with several brands about what's going to be the best ROI for our investment at the hotel.
So we'll get through that over the next several months.
And as John indicated we'll hopefully have something to announce perhaps as early as the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citigroup.
Can you talk about your RevPAR growth assumptions for the back half of the year? It seems like the first half the portfolio is running about 5.5%.
And that in order to achieve the higher end of your guidance of 7% to 8% you'd probably need to do 10% to 12% in the fourth quarter.
And I heard your comments on group bookings accelerating in Boston and Chicago but is that the magnitude of the ramp that you're anticipating? Josh this is Sean.
No.
For the back half of the year to hit the low end of our guidance we need 6.3% RevPAR growth; at midpoint approximately 8%; and the high end a little under 10% RevPAR growth.
And the reason why the math is a little different as to you is because the weighting of our year.
It's so weighted towards the fourth quarter that that time is just that much more impactful.
I mean it seems like and I know you didn't give specific third and fourth quarter guidance but it seems like most companies are guiding to kind of a weaker third quarter and a stronger fourth quarter.
So it seems like toward the high end you probably would be over 10% in the fourth quarter if the third quarter was a little lighter.
Yes although we're not -- we don't give specific quarterly guidance we would expect the trends to accelerate as the year progresses.
And can you clarify did you say the portfolio is 45% below peak? The 2010 EBITDA if we return prior peak you'd have to increase the 2010 hotel EBITDA by 45%.
Versus 2010.
Right.
And how did you get -- when you did that analysis I guess for the hotels that you owned did you use 2007 EBITDA? And how did you treat the hotel there already operating close to that number? We did the same thing.
So we took all the hotels and it was either 2007 or 2008 was their prior peak.
So we took those whatever the prior peak level was.
Whether it was good or bad it didn't matter we're consistent throughout the portfolio and then just averaged out.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis Forst with KeyBanc.
I had a few kind of unrelated questions.
First of all the Marriott Cherry Creek who's the manager of that property? Sage out of Denver is the manager of the property.
Were they the manager prior to acquiring it? Yes they've been the manager since its opening in 2001.
Okay great.
And then what was the available room nights at Frenchman’s Reef during the quarter? We'll look that up.
Do you have another question Dennis? I'm trying to come up with what the actual RevPAR was for the quarter.
The available rooms Dennis were at Frenchman's Reef was 34 614 for the second quarter.
3-4-6-1-4? Yes.
And then lastly you were talking -- I think maybe it was John talking about the business transient business was up 9.3% and composed 31% of room revenue.
I wonder if you could give us the same numbers for leisure and group.
Sure.
For the second quarter group revenue was up.
Excluding Frenchman's Reef group revenue was up 1.1%.
Leisure and discounts was up 5%.
And other was up 47.6% which makes them as a percentage of total revenue I'll have to get you that number -- oh here it is.
I'll have to get you that number.
Okay.
The numbers for all 3 of those components? Yes.
So that it adds up to 100? [Indiscernible].
Your next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to see if you can give us kind of more color on the booking window.
I know you had mentioned the group pace.
Are you seeing -- last quarter I mean one of the trends you mentioned was in the Quarter 4 the quarter booking was also increasing.
Are you continuing to see that? Or would also categorize like the booking window as lengthening? Enrique this is Mark.
In the Quarter 4 the quarter obviously we had some issues in Chicago and Boston given what the citywide trends were at those 2 hotels.
What we are seeing is a lengthening out of some of the group bookings.
Particularly we're seeing in 2012 very good pace in groups.
So we are seeing that window get a little wider.
I wouldn't say it's back to anywhere near normal.
But we are seeing positive trends in that it's lengthening now.
Inc.</strong> And then I wonder if you could provide also what the RevPAR growth was for the calendar quarter? Was there a big difference versus your reporting numbers? It was roughly the same Enrique.
Dennis in response to you -- I know you're off but in response to your question the room segmentation and this is without Frenchman’s Reef group is this quarter 38% of total.
Last year same quarter it was 40%.
Business transient 33% against last year's 32% again this is without Frenchman's.
But it's a little different from the 31% we gave you with Frenchman.
The leisure and discount 25% in both years.
Contract and other 4% this year 3% last year.
Hopefully those total 100%.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker with Morgan Stanley.
Just a couple of quick questions here.
First it sounds like from what John you just mentioned with regards to the group segment that volumes were down about 3.5% but revenues were up about 1.1% indicating that you've had group rates up 4.5%.
Does that sound correct? Did I understand that correctly? Let's see rates in groups were up about 3.1%.
3.1% okay.
And out of the 2.7% growth you have for the back half of the year and the 10% for '12 can you break that down between room nights and room rates for the group segment that is? Yes just a second.
For the -- I can break it down for the balance of this year.
For the third quarter rates excluding Frenchman's are up about 3.8% and they're down slightly in the fourth quarter.
For 2012 the rates are -- the ADR for next year on the books is about 4.3% up.
Great that's helpful.
And then as you guys think about the group segment a little bit and some of the challenges that you've have encountered with SalesForce One this year and probably in the last couple of years I'm wondering do you have any properties that SalesForce One has not yet rolled out into? And are being proactive to make sure that you don't encounter the same kind of start-up challenges that you encountered in Chicago this quarter? Yes.
We have hotels in Texas and some others that just got implemented in June of this year.
And that's the last batch.
We are trying very hard to adjust the sales resources and the focus of the group sales effort to make sure that we don't encounter some of the problems.
But some of the problems are a little bit intractable in that so many people are changing jobs.
They're going from the property level to the regional level.
That is very difficult to get immediate focus.
Hopefully the training process and -- the training process have been more effective in the recent rollouts.
Okay.
And then one last question as I look at Austin being down 4% this quarter.
And we've seen in the press over past couple of weeks that it seems like both convention center hotels are breaking ground and planning to go ahead.
Is that a property that you're still interested? Is that still considered a good market that you want to stay in? Or does it make sense to exit that property before those properties ramp up? Well the impact of the new supply in downtown has already been felt.
We get virtually no compression out of downtown Austin.
So the impact of the citywide convention loss of compression has already been felt at the hotel.
It really can't get any worse.
What the new hotels and the existing supply -- where they'll challenge us is the in-house bookings when there aren't citywides.
And so inevitably there will be some impact.
Austin is a great growth market.
There's no question about that.
But it's clearly a hotel that faces some challenges coming in the near future -- in the distant future.
Your next question comes from the line of David Katz with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask how soon what kind of timing would you expect to get back to what your normal group mix of 40% of revenues is? I mean is that something you think is maybe a next year dynamic or beyond? David it's different by market and hotel.
I think if we look at the overall portfolio it's probably closer to 2013 till we get to the normalized levels of segmentation still ramping up on the group particularly.
Inc.</strong> And how aggressive the scale of 1 to 10 or in some other subjective measure do you feel rates are being pushed? And I ask the question I guess specifically related to Marriott.
Quite frankly there's been a lot of discussion in the investment community about that and about them being aggressive in terms of pushing rates at this stage.
Dave this is Mark.
They've been very aggressive about pushing rates and we've encouraged them to do that.
It hasn't always worked out immediately.
Chicago Marriott for instance they pushed too hard early in the year and we lost some business.
In the 2 New York Courtyards Marriott pushed rate early in Q1 without having -- and let them hold anticipating that the strength would be there to allow them to do that.
We're encouraging them to continue to take those chances because we think it's important to the industry and our properties that we have price integrity and that we move the rates forward.
They are clearly trying to be a market leader in that segment though in pushing rates.
Inc.</strong> And if I can just go back to SalesForce One briefly am I hearing correctly John that we are sort of past whatever issues or challenges the implementation has brought with it? Or do we perhaps have another quarter or so where it will still be a point of discussion? It's hard to tell David exactly how effectively they will do in this most recent round of implementations.
We -- as I said we have tried to focus hard on what we learned in the earlier rounds.
And I would just have to say time will tell.
It may very well continue to be an issue in some markets because there is a lot of disruption for people in the program.
I mean salespeople are completely changing their responsibilities and it's kind of a "somebody moved my cheese" type of phenomenon.
They have to get used to the new environment.
And as I said there's been a lot of work going into training and into sales resources.
But time will tell.
I wouldn't make the prediction that the problems are all solved at this point.
Inc.</strong> And if I can just follow that up quickly.
I mean it sounded from your commentary that most of the cheese was in Chicago.
But is that -- is there lesser amounts elsewhere? Or did I mischaracterize what your comment was? No.
I would not say most of it was in Chicago.
Chicago was an immediate problem we're facing in the second quarter.
As we pointed out the balance of the year next year look pretty good.
The problem in Chicago was a pull-through problem.
It was conversion problem.
So the leads are great but there was an issue with converting the leads into definite room nights.
Again I think we've made great progress towards correcting that.
That's inevitably going to be a problem to the extent we haven't effectively addressed it at the new properties.
But I think we have effectively addressed it.
But it's not unique to Chicago.
Chicago had a particular problem with its stage in the turnover.
And it was literally it was a conversion.
The funnel is great and looks great throughout the portfolio.
It's converting those tentatives to definites which has to be back to prior averages.
Your next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just wanted to I guess well beat the dead horse a little bit more on SalesForce One.
But just specifically we've heard mixed views from people as to whether or not Marriott and some of the bigger properties is allowing additional people to be added back at the property level.
Is that something that you guys -- I mean when you talked about some of the adjustments that they've worked on specifically like at the Chicago Marriott at an important property like that are they adding people back to the sales effort at the hotel level? We are not at Chicago Marriott because it's a very -- I'm not going to give you the long answer all right.
I'm going to -- we have made adjustments at the sales office level.
So there's not a Chicago land as it's called sales force that is addressing only the Chicago land hotels.
And you have to keep in mind that the SalesForce One is a program that's set up to book less than 300 room-night on peak groups.
The over-300 room nights on peak are still handled at the property level.
So the performance of the Chicago Marriott at above 300 peak room nights has been very very good.
It's been improved -- it's been an improvement over the last year.
It's been the sub-300.
The problem was as I said conversion.
So we had to get specific resources at the sales office to address the conversion problems.
The other advantage that a big hotel has that is potentially a problem at a smaller hotel is a big hotel has event planners that service the group once they're booked.
And as they project the group spend they make sure that the meeting space is properly allocated.
They make sure that they're available to make changes that the group may have.
These are resources that big hotels have that small hotels don't.
And so in a small hotel the problem is a different set of problems I should say than the big hotels.
And so on-property resources becomes very important in smaller hotels less so at the big hotels that have the resources to handle some of the pull-through issues.
My second question was just on the group side.
It looked like -- and I apologize if I don't have the exact right numbers here but it looks like your group pace is actually pretty similar right now as it was last quarter.
So I guess what I'm just kind of wondering academically was most of the delta the expectation for this quarter anyway was it driven primarily by just in the quarter for the quarter that didn't materialize? Is it as simple as that given particularly Boston and Chicago? Or was there anything else that we should think about? And the reason I'm asking is I'm just trying to think about the visibility or confidence level that you have that we should have in the back half.
That's a great question.
And it's something we watch really carefully.
For probably 8 quarters consecutively in the quarter for the quarter group bookings have improved.
And they did again on a revenue basis this quarter.
We were up I think about 9% in total revenue booked in the quarter for the quarter.
But it was really a rate-driven game.
Room rates were up mid-20s whereas the room nights were down fairly substantially in the quarter for the quarter.
You can read that 2 ways and we're in the process of analyzing it.
That can be great news because they could be more selective in the groups that they book because they had a good base of business.
And at 76% occupancy they have a pretty good load.
So that could be one answer.
The other answer could be that the volume of groups was down but they were able to charge more money for the groups.
We're in the process of trying to understand that.
But in general it was a good -- we take it as good news that rate was so effectively increased in the quarter for the quarter.
And Shaun this is Sean.
The other issue on the group side of the business was the food and beverage contribution for the groups was not as high this quarter as it would have been in the past and was a little below our expectation which also impacted our quarter.
And then I guess my third question is just thinking about how the acquisitions are kind of layering into the portfolio.
And just to kind of think about it this way at the beginning of the year your RevPAR expectation was up 6% to 8%.
But you've added in some hotels particularly the Denver JW and now the Denver Courtyard in markets that seem to be outperforming the average.
So my question is would still be at 6% to 8% if you excluded the acquisitions? Or is the core portfolio doing a little less well than you would have expected? And any specific call-out to why that might be the case if so? Shaun this is Mark.
If you look at our acquisitions the 2 Denver deals both had renovations in Q1.
So their full year numbers aren't going to be above the -- substantially above the portfolio average.
The Lexington Hotel in New York had the Q1 New York issue like all of New York which wasn't that strong.
So it's not going to move the average substantially either.
So those are the 3.
I don't think it's going to be a material difference with or without the acquisitions in the full year RevPAR numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answers.
Just had a couple of quick follow-ups here.
John in your comments you talked about planning for it seem like a lot of renovations.
Do you have any idea in terms of what the spend can look like for '12 at this point relative to 2011? Well we're right in the middle of that I would say for the existing portfolio.
It will be on par with the last couple of years maybe a little bit higher.
For the acquisitions particularly the Lexington.
There won't be anything in the Denver properties abnormal.
But in the Lexington property there will be significant capital probably going in -- certainly going in next year.
So that will impact the overall spend.
LLC</strong> Also in your comments you talked about expecting to outperform the industry from a RevPAR standpoint next year because of Frenchman’s Reef.
If you take Frenchman’s Reef out just to make sure we're comparing apples to apples is that still the case? It's hard to know with all the properties with the visibilty we have now.
We know that Chicago and Boston have excellent citywide calendars and the group pace for the whole portfolio looks very strong for next year.
So we're very encouraged for 2012.
LLC</strong> And finally not to leave you out Sean a quick question in terms of capacity here for the second half just as you guys are looking in investment opportunities would the plan be at this point to lock in a mortgage on an additional property if you see acquisition opportunities that meet your underwriting standards? Sure that's one of the capital sources that we would look at.
We also still have capacity on our line of credit.
And as Mark mentioned in his prepared remarks there is still the possibility over and this is more long term to recycle some capital within our portfolio through dispositions.
So all of those options are available to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citigroup.
If I could just follow up on that question can you talk about what you think your financial capacity is today the size of the acquisition pipeline? And also eventually how you plan to turn out the revolver if you're considering issuing preferred stock or you want to incur more mortgage debt at this point.
Josh this is Mark.
I'm sure happy to answer your question.
I think our investing capacity today we would be comfortable with perhaps another $100 million in acquisitions.
As far as the line of credit we have about $150 million outstanding on today.
We don't view that -- although it's very expensive we don't view that as long-term financing.
So the most likely outcome is that we'd explore doing permanent financing on the Lexington Hotel.
But we'd have to -- we want to make sure we determine the brand and the capital plan before we proceed along that path.
Again we keep our options open as obviously the market changes every day.
Have you given more thought to adding preferred stock to the capital structure? That's one of the options we have.
We have a preference towards a very simple capital structure for a number of reasons.
So that's still on the table but that's probably not at the top of the list right now.
Your final question comes from the line of Bill Crow with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Three quick questions for you.
Can you help me understand the failure to convert the leads? Is that the loss of market share? Or are those meetings that never came to the market at all? Those were meetings that had been put in the tentative funnel if you will that the property didn't effectively or the sales team didn't effectively convert to definite room nights.
It could be in any number of issues but it tends to be -- the problems we've seen have tended to be lack of focus on the conversion process and that...
Inc.</strong> So they still come to the market they just didn't come to that hotel likely? They may or may not have come to the market.
They may have been looking at multiple cities and went somewhere else or they went somewhere else within the market.
Inc.</strong> And then the disappointment in the food and beverage in the group business is that a sales transformation issue? Is that specific to the groups that were there in the second quarter? Or is there something we should read into the economy and the willingness of groups to spend at this point in the cycle? Yes it's really hard to explain that one because we were seeing the opposite trend last year.
So I would say that it was unique to the groups that were in the hotel this year is our hope.
However this quarter -- excuse me is our hope.
We had to do a better job of what we call qualifying the groups ahead of time so that it gets into our forecast rather than getting into our final numbers as a -- at lower numbers than we anticipated.
So there are a number of steps that we can take to minimize the effect if in fact it is not a unique thing to our couple of hotels.
But I'd tend to think that trends would tell us that it was unique to the quarter and to our hotels.
Bill this is Sean.
The lack of F&amp;B was really felt in 4 hotels across our portfolio.
It wasn't system-wide across the entire portfolio.
So I think that would answer the question whether we think it's systemic or whether it's just specific to those markets.
A big chunk of it was at Frenchman’s Reef obviously because of the disruption.
Inc.</strong> So that's included in that food -- that $1 million food and beverage area okay.
And then specific to Frenchman’s Reef when you put that back into your RevPAR statistics when you start reporting this is that going to be excluded throughout next year? The plan though is we report it both ways currently and we'll continue to report it both ways next year as well.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Stacy.
To everyone on this call we'd like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
Enjoy the rest of your summer.
We thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tony and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Mark Brugger CEO.
Please proceed.
Thanks Tony.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by John Williams our President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would just like to remind everyone many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties described in our Securities filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP in our earnings press release.
Let me start the call today by saying that we are pleased with the third quarter operating performance of our portfolio.
We remain optimistic about the continued strength of lodging fundamentals.
In particular demand at our hotels is very good.
In fact even preliminary indications for 2012 are strong.
With the recent volatility in the capital markets slow employment growth and the ongoing concern about the European debt situation we understand why investor sentiment has grown more cautious.
However even with a more tempered world view the 2012 outlook for our portfolio is very positive for a number of reasons some macro and some unique to DiamondRock.
I will highlight just 5 for you.
First our portfolio of 2012 group booking pace is up 10% in revenue as a result of favorable convention calendars for our 2 most important group markets Chicago and Boston as well as strong forward group bookings at Frenchman's Reef.
Our Marriott hotels are leading the way up over 12% and we expect to outperform the industry on the group side next year.
Second our portfolio will benefit from the reopening of the fully renovated Marriott Frenchman's Reef Resort in St.
Thomas.
Third our portfolio quality will be even better after consummating the pending sale of the 3 non-core hotels to Inland American.
Fourth new hotel supply continues to grow at a rate significantly below historical averages.
For example during 2011 hotel supply grew at 0.07% and 2012 supply growth is forecasted to fall at only 0.5% which will provide our hotels with pricing power even with moderate demand growth.
And fifth government per diems are up nationally 3% to 7% in 2012 which will be a tailwind for the industry next year versus a headwind this year.
Overall for the third quarter 2011 DiamondRock's portfolio of hotels generated an impressive RevPAR growth of 7.2%.
Hotel adjusted EBITDA margins expanded 44 basis points.
Our third quarter margins were held back by high property taxes implemented upon the recent expiration of the PILOT tax program at the Boston Westin and a difficult comp as a result of a successful tax appeal recorded during the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding these 2 items our margins would have grown 185 basis points.
This RevPAR margin data is pro forma for our owned hotels as of the end of the quarter but of course excludes the Frenchman's Reef Resort.
Our third quarter results were led by double-digit RevPAR growth at half of our portfolio with particularly robust results achieved at our hotels in Boston Atlanta Los Angeles and Minneapolis.
We had outstanding results from a number of other hotels including an 11% increase in RevPAR at the Sonoma Renaissance and a 19% increase in RevPAR at the Worthington Renaissance in Dallas/Fort Worth.
Results were more challenging at the Griffin Gate Marriott due to tough comps and the Vail Marriott due to new supply.
Our single hotel in the D.C.
market the Marriott Bethesda Suites underperformed in that soft market.
However based on overall strong revenue growth DiamondRock generated third quarter adjusted EBITDA of $41.7 million and adjusted FFO of $0.16 per share.
It is worth noting that the renovation disruption at Frenchman's Reef displaced approximately $7 million of revenues and $1.5 million of EBITDA during the third quarter alone.
Turning to acquisitions.
The company has been very active during 2011.
We've committed more than $0.5 billion in forward transactions over $450 million committed in New York City and approximately $120 million in Denver.
We believe that both these markets have great long-term potential.
In fact our hotel acquisitions over the past 18 months are actually ahead of our underwriting.
On the disposition front we stated on our last call that the company was evaluating the disposition of certain non-core hotels over the next year to create additional dry powder to invest in higher growth opportunities.
I am pleased to announce the pending sale of 3 non-core hotels to Inland American for a purchase price of $262 million.
The portfolio consists of the Griffin Gate Marriott located in Lexington Kentucky; the Renaissance Waverly located in the northwest submarket of Atlanta; and the Austin Renaissance located in Arboretum submarket of Austin.
The disposition will provide the company with several key benefits including enhancing our portfolio quality and providing significant dry powder for future acquisitions.
We expect the transaction to close at the end of the year contingent upon the lenders approving Inland American's assumption of their related property debt.
Now let's turn to our capital structure and balance sheet.
Since the company's inception DiamondRock has remained committed to low leverage and a straightforward capital structure.
It is during times of economic uncertainty that a balance sheet such as ours is most potent.
We are protective if macro factors are worse than anticipated and positioned to take advantage of opportunities if industry fundamentals remain strong.
Our projected 2011 net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is 5.6x.
Looking at it another way if the sale of the 3 hotels had occurred at the beginning of 2011 this ratio would be only 4.8x.
The solid debt ratio will only improve during 2012 as hotel cash flows increase and we regain the displaced renovation business at Frenchman's Reef.
Additionally our debt is very well structured and flexible.
12 of our hotels are unencumbered by debt and have a cost basis well north of $1 billion.
That's a lot of potential borrowing power.
Although we plan to stay conservative it's nice to have the flexibility.
Moreover providing income to our shareholders is important to us.
Since our inception DiamondRock has provided our investors with over $0.25 billion in cash dividends.
Our current dividend yield of 4% is well covered and substantially higher than many of our peers.
Our ability to pay a strong dividend is indicative of the health of our balance sheet and our belief in the positive operating trends.
Before turning the call over to John I want to provide a quick update on a few other matters.
First the Chicago Conrad.
The Conrad has achieved outstanding operating results during 2011.
Year-to-date RevPAR grew almost 16% and market share improved an impressive 5 percentage points.
Earlier this week we signed a new agreement with Hilton Worldwide for them to continue to operate the hotel at the Conrad.
We are excited about the results.
Under our new agreement Hilton provided an annual operating performance guarantee which will last through 2015.
The new agreement also gives us the right to sell the hotel unencumbered by brand or management thereby maximizing our flexibility and exit value.
Moreover we have identified great ROI opportunities at the Chicago Conrad to add over 4 100 square feet of high demand meeting space in place of nonrevenue producing executive offices as well as re-concept the restaurant outside terrace and lobby.
The Chicago Conrad has a bright future.
Second although John will go into more detail we are pleased that our Frenchman's Reef Resort has reopened.
It looks great and is tracking its $45 million capital budget due to the extraordinary efforts of our asset management team.
Third the Allerton Chicago.
As many of you know we took advantage of this distressed debt opportunity last year by buying the note at roughly $10 million discount.
Our basis in the note equates to an attractive $140 000 per key.
In a move to hold us off from completing foreclosure the owner filed for bankruptcy last May.
Although the filing slowed things down it triggered a recourse guarantee that allowed us to file suit to collect legal fees et cetera from the guarantor that was put up by the owner.
Concurrently as secured creditor we are taking action to maximize value for our shareholders in the bankruptcy proceedings.
We had engaged best-in-class legal representation and will incur the concomitant legal fees.
Although we may recover the legal fees from the guarantor GAAP requires that we expense them now as incurred.
We anticipate the bankruptcy process to be resolved around the middle of next year.
Fourth earlier this month we reached a settlement to resolve litigation related to our LAX Marriott.
Our contribution to the settlement is approximately $1.7 million which we accrued in the third quarter.
We are pleased to put this matter behind us and this one-time expense is added back to our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO.
Lastly we want to update you on the Hilton Garden Inn Hotel being developed for DiamondRock in Times Square.
The demolition is complete on the site and construction is expected to start after the New Year's Day holiday with delivery in mid-2013.
Our price per key on this deal is fixed at only about $450 000.
We remain very bullish on this project as we believe that the A+ location and strong brand will enable the hotel to achieve high rates while maintaining great flow-through from its limited service cost structure.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
Thanks Mark.
Before getting into the details let me say that this was a very strong quarter.
We saw solid demand and the team did an excellent job managing hotel costs.
The outlook for 2012 looks good and we continue to see exciting investment opportunities at our hotels.
In the third quarter room revenue for the DiamondRock portfolio increased 7.2% and was driven almost equally by increases in rate and occupancy.
Food and beverage revenue was up 2.6% and house profit margins were up 136 basis points compared to Q3 of 2010.
All the comparisons I'll give in my prepared remarks unless I indicate otherwise will exclude the Marriott Frenchman's Reef Resort which was substantially closed during the third quarter.
I'll say more about Frenchman's Reef in a minute.
Our portfolio benefited from strong demand in all segments.
Group room revenue in the quarter was up 4.2% business transient was up 4.4% leisure and other discount revenue was up 12.6% and contract and other revenue was up 16.9%.
As you know the third quarter is a strong leisure quarter.
The room segmentation for the portfolio by revenue in Q3 was 34% group 32% business transient and 34% leisure and other reflecting our strategy to have a balanced revenue mix in our portfolio.
Our asset managers and operators have worked cooperatively to increase productivity of the hotels in order to enhance profitability.
Our team remains focused on controlling expenses.
Overall productivity for the portfolio is very good with man hours per occupied room down almost 4% and sales per man hour up 6%.
Salaries and wages were contained in the quarter increasing only 3.2% with the benefits up 5.1%.
We continue to battle higher travel agent commissions and credit card fees which continue to trend higher at approximately 8% and 12% respectively over Q3 last year.
Food and beverage sales were up 2.6% as I mentioned but margins were down slightly because of the mix of leisure in the quarter led to a less profitable mix weighted towards lower margin outlet sales.
Higher profit banquet sales were up a modest 1% with group catering up about 2% but local catering was off 2.5%.
As a result of menu planning initiatives and volume purchasing programs food and beverage product costs were actually both slightly lower in the quarter.
Support costs in the quarter increased 3%.
Support costs were impacted by sales and marketing and repairs and maintenance costs which were up 6.3% and 5.2% respectively.
This impact was mitigated by moderate increases in hotel G&amp;A up just 2.3% and lower utility costs down almost 3%.
The utility cost savings were in part a result of the energy saving initiatives we have invested in over the past 3 years.
Overall a very good quarter for the company with revenue cost controls and both group and transient pace continuing to trend well.
We continue to aggressively work with our operators to maximize results in our properties.
We work closely with Marriott to improve the performance of the new sales organization as it relates to DiamondRock's portfolio.
Resources have been added or reorganized to concentrate sales efforts on important feeder markets and effectively convert tentative leads into definite group room nights.
Marriott has developed tools to measure lead response time and sales effectiveness and both measures have trended positively all years.
These efforts together with the positive impact of the reopening of Frenchman's Reef have undoubtedly contributed to our Marriott managed portfolio 2012 group revenue pace being up over 12.4%.
Our consolidated portfolio 2012 group revenue pace including all brands and managers is also up an impressive 10% compared to 2011.
No one is declaring victory yet in this complicated sales reorganization.
But the dramatic increase in account coverage 7x the number of accounts covered by the sales organization representing 110 000 accounts the improved lead response time and effective lead conversion rates and the improvements in pace and group RevPAR index are all signs of progress.
Our internal investment program has been extensive and we found excellent opportunities to invest in our hotels and deliver attractive returns.
Let me start with our largest initiative the repositioning of Frenchman's Reef in St.
Thomas.
I'm happy to report that the repositioning and energy project at the Frenchman's Reef resort is substantially complete.
The project is expected to be completed on budget and the resort reopened on schedule earlier this month.
The planning for this $45.3 million project began in 2008.
Construction commenced in May of this year and the resort has been transformed.
All the rooms have been renovated and the facade upgraded.
We've created a brand-new state-of-the-art spa and fitness facility which had been the primary objection for meeting planners.
We've rebuilt the pool into 3 world-class pools including a spa and plunge pool a family pool with the latest spray showers and an adult resort pool with a swim up bar and a breathtaking infinity edge overlooking the Caribbean Sea.
The new resort pool area includes a wedding gazebo in a secluded setting which will be an effective sales tool for the already popular wedding venue.
We added a newly constructed lounge attached to the main restaurant that provides guests with panoramic views of historic Charlotte Amalie Bay.
The energy program in the hotel is equally as exciting.
We've reengineered the HVAC at the resort to a central system providing condition dry cooling to the guestrooms and public areas to dramatically enhance guest experience.
We converted the hotel to self-generation and will no longer rely on the island energy provider.
The new system will have a compelling return on investment as it's projected to reduce our cost per kilowatt hour by 25% and our energy consumption by an estimated 30%.
Guest and meeting planner reaction to the revitalized hotel has been exceptional.
We expect the renovated resort will command significantly higher rates in both the leisure and group segments and recapture group business that had stopped meeting at the hotel and the energy savings will be substantial.
Next the Lexington Hotel in Midtown Manhattan is in the final planning stages for an exciting redesign and renovation.
We believe the hotel has significant rate potential with smart capital investment and potential rebranding.
Our underwriting during our acquisition of the hotel included a $25 million investment for repositioning the hotel in order to maximize our returns.
The repositioning will renovate and re-concept the 712 guestrooms and the public space to emphasize the hotel's history and create a unique guest experience.
When complete the hotel will be positioned at a 4.5 star level and depending on our final analysis will be either branded or compete as a very upscale independent similar to other well-known hotels along the famed Lexington Hotel corridor.
We're planning renovations to minimize disruption at this high occupancy hotel which means that some work occurring in the first quarter of next year and the bulk of the capital being completed in early 2013.
Turning to the Conrad Hotel that Mark talked about.
We are also in the final planning stages of re-concepting and significant meeting space addition at the Conrad in Chicago.
The plan will include activation of the lobby and food and beverage outlets including taking the already popular outdoor terrace to the next level.
We'll add over 4 000 square feet of highly valuable meeting space.
We will also create an additional deluxe suite by splitting the Presidential Suite into 2 deluxe suites with high demand outdoor terraces.
We expect to invest $3.5 million in the hotel that projections show will generate a very attractive return.
The work should be completed at low demand periods to minimize the disruption and we plan to complete the work by mid-2013.
As Mark mentioned we've restructured our financial relationship with Hilton to significantly enhance our returns from this hotel.
We've been very impressed with Hilton and we look forward to expanding that relationship.
I did want to touch on acquisitions and dispositions.
We had bought some great hotels over the last year.
Forecast 2011 EBITDA for the 6 hotels we've acquired over the past 18 months exceeds our acquisition pro forma EBITDA as Mark mentioned.
With that said dispositions also remain a key part of our capital allocation strategy to create value for our shareholders.
The disposition of the non-core hotels Mark mentioned will improve our portfolio growth increase portfolio quality and increase our portfolio concentration in high-growth urban locations.
For example the average rate of our portfolio will increase almost $5 after the disposition of the 3 hotels.
The hotels were identified as non-core for the company based on a number of considerations and we targeted their dispositions at our strategy session early this year.
The proceeds from the sales will allow DiamondRock to reduce leverage and more importantly substantially increase our investment capacity in what I think may be a very interesting time to buy next year.
The fundamentals of our portfolio are trending well into 2012.
However as we enter the 2012 budget season our instructions to our managers are the same as last year.
Don't add cost in anticipation of revenue improvement only in response to increase volume and then only if absolutely necessary.
With that said we're seeing strength in both group and transient pace.
Our 2 most important group markets of Boston and Chicago have strong citywide conventions next year.
The renovated and reopened Frenchman's Reef Resort will obviously have outsized growth.
The Salt Lake City Marriott will benefit from the opening of the 2 city block City Creek mixed-use project and after 4 years of impact from this massive construction project and all this against the backdrop of historically low new supply in the U.S.
We believe that these facts paint a very positive picture for DiamondRock in the 2012 fiscal year.
Mark? Thanks.
As John noted we remain positive on lodging fundamentals and expect the fourth quarter to continue demonstrating favorable demand trends with solid RevPAR growth.
The good group on the books for the fourth quarter gives us great confidence in the quarter.
However we are revising our guidance to take into account a number of things.
Notably that our RevPAR growth while expected to be strong had previously included the hotel operators overly aggressive fourth quarter rate assumptions for both transient and group.
We have taken a more prudent view of the forecast for both rate as well as for group F&amp;B contribution.
Additionally support costs are above trend line particularly sales and marketing impacting the fourth quarter by about $1 million mostly due to certain program true-ups.
Lastly as we discussed we've accounted for additional legal fees.
Thus we now expect the following results for the full year 2011: Pro forma RevPAR growth of 6% to 7%; adjusted EBITDA of $166 million to $170 million.
Note that this includes the disruption from Frenchman's as well as $2 million in incremental legal fees related to the LAX settlement and Allerton legal fees.
Accordingly we expect full year adjusted FFO per share to be $0.63 to $0.65.
In concluding the prepared remarks we would point out several key reasons that we believe DiamondRock is well positioned to deliver shareholder value.
One our portfolio has tremendous upside from the cyclical recovery.
For example if this recovery achieves prior peak DiamondRock's comparable hotel EBITDA will increase 45% over 2010.
Stated differently we are currently trading at a historically inexpensive cap rate of almost 10% on prior peak hotel NOI for our portfolio.
Two our portfolio has above cycle upside from attractive ROI opportunities.
Good examples of those opportunities include the Frenchman's Reef reinvention the Lexington Hotel potential rebranding and the Conrad Chicago additional meeting space.
Three the DiamondRock external growth story is strong.
Our recent acquisitions are high-quality with high-growth potential.
Moreover the pending sale of 3 hotels to Inland American along with our already great balance sheet positions DiamondRock to pursue acquisitions as others are sidelined by the turmoil in the capital markets.
And with that we would now like to open up the call for any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from line of Eli Hackel of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One just relates to the sale of portfolio and how you look at the proceeds going forward.
You mentioned 2012 may be an attractive year for buying assets.
Where would you look to take leverage to? I mean if you're going to be at 4.8x this year would you bring it above 5 again to purchase hotels? And then what are you seeing in that market? And second question just on the sale of the portfolio.
How active was the bidding for these hotels and maybe some color on who the bidders were or was this a special situation in terms of where you found the buyer of the portfolio? All right this is Mark I'll take your second question first and then turn it over to Sean.
As far as the marketing process for the assets we originally went to market with the Griffin Gate Marriott Hotel and from that -- and there was a number of interested parties.
From that we built a relationship with Inland American and grew to a larger portfolio deal.
So it was partially marketed and partially off market for the sale of the portfolio.
Related to your question on leverage and where we will go in leverage I'll turn it over to Sean.
Eli this is Sean.
With respect to the leverage I think as Mark correctly stated this will take our leverage down to 4.8 on a net debt-to-EBITDA basis.
I think from a long-term perspective we will continue to strive to have low leverage on our capital structure.
We're going to evaluate our long-term leverage again as part of our strategy session this fall.
I think what you'd expect from DiamondRock in the future is what we have done to date which is to have one of the lowest levered balance sheets within our space.
I wouldn't expect that to change as we look forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more actually just a clarification point.
On the group bookings you gave a number sorry if I missed it.
But could you just -- were group bookings the number that you gave for next year did that include Frenchman's or was exclusive of Frenchman's? The 10% I gave you included Frenchman's Eli.
This is John.
Research Division</strong> Do you have that number excluding Frenchman's? It's 8.7%.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Weissman of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Yes just one follow-up question on the acquisition or the disposition I should say of the non-core assets.
I assume that the transaction wasn't consummated in the last 30 or 60 days.
And it seems as though it's all the rage for institutional capital to be walking away from deals given the uncertainty.
What if any out does Inland have at this point? This is Mark.
The contract obviously is covered by a confidentiality agreement.
But we have a market deposit and it's contingent on the lenders approving the assumption of the secured debt.
So that's really the big contingency that remains in the contract to consummate the deal.
Research Division</strong> And remind us again the closing date is when? It's -- the closing date is going to be determined by the timing of the lender consent but we're anticipating by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And just any color that you might be able to provide on pricing cap rate or such? Yes as you know we're covered by a confidentiality agreement so I won't give any projections.
But our -- we publicly disclosed the trailing 12 in our press releases.
It's roughly a little over a 7 cap on trailing numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you on your costs as you look out into next year.
I think you noted that your benefits are running up 5% and labor is up 3%.
Do you think that's a reasonable rate kind of would expect to see that into next year? And then -- and what percent is benefits of your total labor cost? Okay this is John.
We would expect -- depending on volume of course we would expect the 3% to be sustainable.
As you know we have very few union hotels.
And where we do have them 3% should accommodate the increase.
In terms of the benefits as a percentage of total wages and benefits I'll get that for you in just a minute.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I just -- what was the -- you said you made a settlement at the LAX Hotel there.
What was the issue or what was it that needed to be settled? This is Mark.
The LAX involved the hotels in what is called the LAX corridor.
There was an ordinance passed a number of years ago related to wages in the way that the banquet tips are distributed.
So that was the crucial issue in the litigation.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay thanks.
And then I just wanted to ask you one thing.
You -- I think on your last call you had given some statistics around the pace of group bookings just for Chicago specifically and for Boston and I was just wondering if you could give us an updated number on those.
Sure.
The pace for Chicago is about 10.8%.
The pace for Boston is about 16.6%.
That's as of period '10.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it looks like for Chicago it slowed a little bit from your last update but picked up a little bit for Boston.
Yes but very slightly in the case of Chicago.
In answer to your question on wage -- on benefits as a percentage of total labor it runs in the mid-40s.
Your next question comes from the line of David Katz of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your profit flow-through.
And I may be just overly focusing on 2 numbers but you gave some RevPAR growth and margin expansion excluding the 3 hotel portfolio right? And I think on a year-to-date basis RevPAR growth would have been 6.3% with 108 basis points.
And then in the quarter without those 3 hotels it was 7.3% and 170 basis points.
Those flow-throughs are different.
And I wanted to just get a sense for what's in there what may be in there other than just rate differential.
And to that end I wanted to just talk about where you see breakeven margin relative to RevPAR as we look at next year and how that should roll.
I think we're trying to just calibrate that.
David this is Mark.
To answer the first part of your question related to the 3 hotels that are -- the pending sale and the way they impact the portfolio there's a number of things going on with those 3 hotels.
They're good solid hotels.
But the Waverly is impacted by a property tax appeal in the comparable period where we won and it all flowed through third quarter of 2010.
So that impacts the margins there and therefore clears into the portfolio.
Griffin Gate is also working against a difficult comp due to the fact that they had the equine world games there last year.
And so you'll see that comparison impacting the margins for that hotel as that comp remains there for both the third quarter and the balance of the year.
As far as 2012 and what the breakeven is for RevPAR it's really a much more complicated formula than that.
What we've seen is that almost as important of the driver of the profit flow-through given our group mix is about 1/3 of our portfolio is the F&amp;B contribution that's coming from these groups particularly at the high profit banquet.
So we could have relatively modest RevPAR growth and still have great margins if that group F&amp;B contribution picks up next year and the group starts to spend a lot of more on banquets.
We could have terrific profit flow-through even with kind of moderate revenue growth.
So it's going to depend on the mix and the ancillary contributions in large part.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So if we look at that third quarter relationship between 7.3% RevPAR growth and about 170 I think it gets to about a 2:1 right flow-through of profit growth to RevPAR growth? And does that mix change next year? In other words will the mix have more groups on it that might improve that or less or it's hard to say? I think there's enough moving pieces.
It's hard to say because while we expect next year to be a very strong group and our group to increase next year the business transient and also the group spend is going to be difficult to forecast as that flow-through.
Kind of 1:2 is the rule of thumb that I've heard other people use.
But our experience is that every quarter is different and the mix really plays a significant role in the ultimate flow-through.
Your next question comes from line of Sule Sauvigne of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering you mentioned your group revenues were up 10% next year but can you give us an indication on where rates are coming in for next year? Sure Sule this is John.
That breakdown works out to about 7 -- it's about 70/30 split rooms to rate.
But it's roughly a little north at 2% rate growth next year Sule.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there is a meaningful difference between the rate you're getting on the Marriott properties that have -- that are doing the new sales program versus the rest of your properties? I didn't hear the question a bit.
A part of what? Sule this is Mark.
I think it's a mix.
We've had the number of hotels that have just come in to the SalesForce One and some of that have been a couple of years.
So it's been different at the properties and I think a number of them are too early to tell what the rate differential is as they're ramping up their integration into SalesForce One.
So I don't think we have a definitive answer to that question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the group booking pace has that changed significantly since last quarter? I know you said it's excellent for next year but just wondering if you've seen a change.
It's improved Sule.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly you mentioned the Vail Marriott underperformed in the quarter because of new supply.
I was just wondering as you adjust for that new supply did you see any change in demand otherwise? And what are the forward booking trends for that property? Yes.
In the last quarter call we talked about The Sebastian and the Four Seasons adding those supply and significantly impacting the market.
We also commented that some of the East Coast and other out-of-market business which is the highest rated business didn't come in to the extent that the property had anticipated.
For the first quarter of next year which is really the key quarter that obviously some of that supply will have been absorbed.
But we are still seeing on the group side that -- the Four Seasons in particular is being uncharacteristically aggressive in their quotes.
But the Vail Marriott in general is -- for the first quarter next year is down year-over-year versus same time last year.
Second quarter is good fourth quarter is good third quarter is also down slightly.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
First I wanted to kind of just talk about the guidance a little bit.
I guess the implied guidance for 4Q RevPAR is plus 6% to 9%.
I think last quarter Sean you had mentioned that your back-half guidance was plus 6.3% to just under 10%.
So largely in line with what you're seeing here so was there a material change when you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you cut back your expectations for RevPAR based on property-level managers indicating stronger growth than you're necessarily expecting? Sure Ryan this is Sean.
As you correctly said we're adjusting our full year 2011 guidance and it just takes sort of -- to be helpful to everybody we've prepared kind of a bridge to our prior guidance.
The first is the hotel operators in our opinion did incorporate overly aggressive fourth quarter transient and group rate growth assumptions.
While we believe that mid- to high single-digit RevPAR is achievable we believe that it will be split between both rate and occupancy.
With that RevPAR mix we think it was prudent to model our rate growth assumptions to be more consistent with both year-to-date and prior quarter trends.
This conservative rate assumption impacted our guidance by about $1.5 million.
Second our F&amp;B profit growth is still expected to be in the high single digits for the fourth quarter.
Our prior guidance also included the hotel operators' projection that groups would significantly increase the amount of group spend on banquet from the prior quarter's trend.
This adjustment also impacted our guidance by about $1.5 million.
The third item is our support costs are rising above inflation and particularly the sales and the marketing costs were up about $1 million from prior expectations.
And this is mostly due to program true-ups.
And then finally the legal expenses are up a couple of million dollars to reflect both the LAX settlement legal fees as well as the Allerton proceedings.
So that all those in aggregate are about a $6 million adjustment to our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
So am I correct in assuming that your guidance does incorporate the performance of the 3 hotels that are being hold for sale? It does.
It assumes an end of the year sale for those assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So they won't be -- are you expecting to put them in discontinued operations in the fourth quarter or is that undetermined yet? We are.
Research Division</strong> You are? Okay and then the last question -- 2 questions I had was with regards to the Conrad in Chicago you mentioned the $1 million reversal of the accrual.
Was that incorporated in the adjusted EBITDA margins of that property? It's factored into the management fees so that is added back to our margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it is added back to your margins.
Okay and then last question I had was just looking at the Radisson in New York or the Lexington Hotel in New York I guess it looked like you had pretty strong or decent RevPAR growth of 6.6% fueled almost entirely by rate yet margins were down over 400 bps.
I'm wondering if you guys can talk a little about what happened with that property in the quarter and if those challenges from a margin standpoint were expected when you made the acquisition last year or I guess earlier this year.
Yes a significant part of that is property tax.
And it's -- obviously we are looking into potential appeals of the property tax.
But that number is -- that's driving a lot of the margin difference.
Research Division</strong> And was that expected when you made the acquisition? Did you think property taxes were going to go up that level or maybe not? Ryan this is Mark.
I think it's as much the property tax increased but it's the way we've spread it throughout the quarter.
So the way the assessment came in and the way we booked it it disproportionately affected the third quarter.
And while this will proportionately affect the fourth quarter as well the house profit flow-through was actually pretty good at the hotel.
But obviously that's something as we get to a full year comp next year will be spread more evenly.
But to answer your question the property taxes were assumed within our acquisition underwriting.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Marks of JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions.
One on the -- you mentioned you were referencing peak EBITDA.
Can you give us what that would be x the 3 hotels you're selling? We'd have to get back to you with separating that out with what our 2007 EBITDA.
And besides we have to go back into pro forma and everything.
I don't have that in front of me.
Research Division</strong> Did that percentage you were referring to it does include the 3 of them right? It does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay it would be great to know what it is without this.
And then just the only other thing I wanted to ask maybe given where you're located but with not much presence in terms of D.C.
what do you -- how do you look at that market next year in terms of growth? I mean I guess there's some impact to your asset but any views on D.C.
market would be helpful.
Well I think there are better people to ask that question of frankly because we have the small hotel out in the suburbs and we're not impacted by citywide conventions basically at all at this point.
I think in general the city is looking forward to the opening of the new convention hotels.
So I think bookings group bookings next year are down.
I think the hope is that with the new convention center hotel that that would dramatically improve the capture rate of the convention center.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of how the calendar or I should say the legislative calendar impacts that do you -- is next year expected to be a dramatically down year in terms of transient travel? Not that -- I don't think so.
Your next question comes from line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question in terms of the 3 assets sold.
How much -- how many more non-core assets are in the portfolio and are you marketing anything additionally currently? Yes this is Mark.
I'll take that one.
I think everyone always has a bottom 20% of their portfolio by definition.
We do not currently have anything on the market but we generally don't talk about acquisitions or dispositions until we have something definitive.
Mike I want -- Mike I'd like to be clear on something too.
This is John.
The quality level of these assets is not really what's driving the sale.
They're high-quality assets.
They are just simply not markets that we've targeted as strategic markets as we've talk to you and to other investors.
And so we targeted these markets as markets that we were not going to stay in.
In terms of the quality of the assets though I mean Austin is a high-quality asset in a high-quality submarket.
The Atlanta Waverly property is a high-quality property that does a great group business.
And in fact after the -- at the end of the third quarter their group pace for next year was up almost 24%.
And Griffin Gate is suffering from very tough comps this year because of the horse World Cup last year.
But it's -- in general it's a very good asset and good location.
So for our portfolio it does improve average rate.
But as a public company we're driving at a certain quality level and market level that others aren't.
LLC Research Division</strong> And there's no shift in strategy with those as well.
If you look at the 3 they seem to be more -- they seem to have bigger group functions there.
Right.
All 3 of them are significant group houses.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you have the breakout of the portfolio in terms of group versus transient x those 3 assets? No.
We'd have to get that for you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay if you could provide that that would be great.
Second of all in terms of -- you went through a number of projects on the docket for the next couple of quarters here.
Can you give us a sense of what you're thinking in terms of CapEx spend for 2012? And it should -- we would expect it to be a little bit lower correct because of absent Frenchman's Reef? Well yes.
I think absent extraordinary projects it will be similar to last year.
But keep in mind that we're going to begin spending money on the Lexington and on the Conrad.
But we have not finalized our CapEx with the operators yet -- with the brands I should say.
And so we still have work to do on that.
But I anticipate that it will be similar to last year excluding extraordinary projects.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Also to -- in terms of corporate negotiations I know it's a little bit early but can you give us a sense on what your thoughts -- or you talked about per diem rates and you also talked about group pace.
Just curious as to what you guys are thinking in terms of corporate negotiated rates? I think with where occupancies are at this point if you think about being 80% in the third quarter I think that there's some strength in the negotiating position of the brands.
It sort of depends on the markets but I think the anticipation is still that it will be in the mid- to high single digits.
Certainly the ask will be higher than that.
The bid will be lower.
The customers are reading the newspapers and watching TV and so their position is not weak.
So I think it's a yet to be decided number.
But certainly the anticipation is that it's roughly similar to last year.
And our target is certainly to be in the high single digits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then finally do you guys have an active buyback plan in place? Just given that you're -- you have a nice cash inflow there from the sale of the 3 assets is that something you guys would look at as well? To answer your question we do not currently have one in place and we would look at one.
As you know we've done share repurchases in the past and our board has considered them periodically over the years.
And while we consider our share price compelling as a trading -- where it's trading today in big place discounts or replacement costs we want to remain prudent with our balance sheet.
But our board is going to reevaluate the issue at our December board meeting what should be around hopefully approximate to the closing of the Inland portfolio and decide given all of our alternative uses of our capital what the best use will be going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Attie of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the portfolio strategy and maybe how it's changed over the last few years? Looking at the 3 hotels you sold Griffin Gate was a pre-IPO hotel but the other 2 were acquisitions that you made a few years ago.
I guess what's changed in those markets and how has your thinking changed in the last few years in terms of the markets that you want to be in and don't want to be in? Josh this is Mark.
I think our portfolio strategy continues to get refined.
We want to take the portfolio in a direction of higher growth markets over the next 5 to 10 years higher RevPAR markets over the next 5 to 10 years.
We're trying to keep the 3 legs of the lodging stool between group and business transient as well as discount leisure relatively balanced so we have that diversity.
We're trying to stay diversified geographically as well.
But what we're doing on each individual assets well is when we analyze potential markets that we want to be in as we continue to reevaluate what we think the potential is over the next decade in each of those markets.
And as time progresses we modify some of those positions.
They may have a great couple year run and then we may have different view on how the next 3 to 5 to 10 years are going to play out there.
So it's really a relative game in some ways looking at these assets versus some alternative uses of capital.
But the overall strategy of the company is to stay in the top 25 markets to stay with some destination resorts in the portfolio and try to figure out a strategy that will allow our company to outperform over the next 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your quarter began on September 9 or 10 can you tell us what the RevPAR growth has been to date? Mid-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you projected to get better than that in the next 3 months to hit the midpoint of the guidance? Yes our period '10 was impacted by some of the Jewish holiday calendar.
Yes we have a very -- Josh this is Mark.
We have a very strong period '11 '12 and '13 group on the books which we think is going to have a material impact on our ability to drive rates for the balance.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one more question.
I don't know if you addressed this in the prepared remarks but have you made a decision on the Radisson what brand it's going to be ultimately if it's going to have a brand? Right.
We are currently in discussions with a number of parties related to that and we hope to have an announcement on our next earnings call.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Didora of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions here.
First John you had mentioned the solid pace next year in Chicago and Boston.
But just curious maybe you can run down your maybe some other markets that you're most bullish on for RevPAR growth next year whether it be -- because of what you have on the books right now or just from a supply perspective? And then two just with your hotels in New York and maybe more specifically the Lexington Avenue Hotel have you seen any sort of slowdown from international visitors over the past 2 months or so I guess specifically from Europe? Okay on the first one Andrew Salt Lake City I guess I'd identify as a strong booking pace hotel.
It's up about 23.5%.
That's a significant group hotel for us.
The Atlanta Westin is up 43% which is a less significant group hotel.
Sonoma is up 32%.
Torrance is up 15% so -- and the Denver market has a strong first half in the citywide calendar and less robust second half but they still have time to fill that in.
With respect to -- the second question was what again Andrew? Research Division</strong> Just in terms of in your New York hotels or maybe just specifically at your Lexington since I know a high percentage of the demand comes from international there just curious if you've seen any change from your European customer just given what's been going on in the macro over the last 2 months or so? We haven't really seen any trend to speak of.
I think New York remains a fairly volatile transient market with the new supply there.
A softness in transient demand impacts the market a little bit more than it used to.
So there's a little more volatility but I wouldn't attribute it to European travel.
Your next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give me some color on what percentage of expected group room nights are already in the books for '12? It's in the mid-60s percent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my other questions have been answered so thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis Frost (sic) [Forst] of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to hone in a little bit on Frenchman's Reef.
Am I right at the beginning of this month we're back to all the rooms being open and for sale? Substantially all the rooms yes.
There are 20 or so that are still being turned over.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the third quarter about how many room nights did you have available? For the portfolio or for Frenchman's? Research Division</strong> No just Frenchman's.
I'd have to get you that number.
It's about 200 rooms per night.
Research Division</strong> A night? Okay yes.
That's -- I think you may have mentioned that at a previous call.
And have you been selling group business right along with the expectations that the property would be renovated by October 1? Yes we have our first big group check-in October -- tomorrow October 20.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there really is no ramp ups in of business.
It's like fully blown ready to go and...
Dennis this is Mark.
The meeting planners are very excited about it and they were excited as we were going through the process.
We'll say a number of people want to see it before they book it.
So they want to go down after the renovation before they put their groups in.
So there's a hesitancy to book the week after the hotel goes to reopen or even a month.
A lot of the planners want to go down to make sure that you delivered what you promised.
They want to see the brand new spa.
They want to see the [indiscernible].
They want to see the new fantasy pools.
So we're experiencing that and we're seeing that for 2012 in the bookings.
But it's not like you turn it on October 20 and the rooms are fully there.
Research Division</strong> Okay so there will be a ramp up in '12 and then hopefully a normal year in '13? Or hopefully more ramp.
Well yes.
I think '12 should be a pretty strong year in and of itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay even with the groups kind of holding off as of now? Well I think the groups kind of taking the wait-and-see attitude would affect the fourth quarter although the fourth quarter -- even with the first several weeks of the quarter the hotel is out of service.
We're still up in the fourth quarter year-over-year compared to last year.
And next year the booking pace next year is up 44%.
So we don't anticipate that there's going to be a long build next year.
We expect it to more or less hit the ground running.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Donlan of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could kind of talk about the scale of the Lexington redevelopment so to speak.
And are you definitely going to keep that a full service hotel and then maybe the timing behind that as well or is that mostly still up in the air? No it's definitely going to be -- we're going to take it to a higher level than it currently is.
We're shooting at a 4 to 4.5 star level.
The question of branding is still up in the air.
In terms of the scope of the renovation it's primarily rooms and public space and primarily soft goods and case goods limited construction and limited infrastructure.
Because when we underwrote the hotel the infrastructure had been very virtually redone in the late 80s early 90s.
So a lot of it is FF&amp;E and very impactful renovation from a guest perspective.
I would just add basically everything the guest will see and touch with the exceptions of bathroom work will be a new and fresh experience.
So the lobby will be completely reinvented so that will feel very different including the restaurant the hotel restaurant.
The corridors that you walk down that will have new ceilings new lighting new vinyl new carpet will be a much much brighter and fresher experience.
The guestrooms -- we're going to a very cutting-edge design and will feel much different and much fresher.
So for the guest experience it's going to be dramatically different when we're done with this renovation.
And Dan I think you also asked about timing.
We are in the process of planning that out.
But we're shooting for low demand periods so first quarter of '12 and first quarter of '13 as well as some periods in the third quarter of '12.
Research Division</strong> So would you anticipate kind of a little bit of disruption from those renovations or do you think you can kind of get around that by just taking one floor out or something to that degree? Well we'll minimize it.
I don't think we -- I'm certain that the occupancy level the hotel runs there will be some disruption.
We just haven't landed on the number yet.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then now that you own 2 assets in Denver and I guess it's probably less of an issue for the JW but what impact did you guys model or do you see from the Gaylord Development that could potentially go up by the airport? Well I think the whole city and particularly the downtown hotels and convention hotels are very concerned about that particularly given the level of subsidy that's been requested.
It's almost 34% as I recall.
So there's a substantial concern.
I think from our perspective the Courtyard wouldn't be impacted to the extent citywide demand is impacted in downtown Denver as with the JW to some extent but the JW is a little bit different in that it's in the Cherry Creek area.
So I think our concern is certainly there.
But I think there are other hotel owners in Denver that are very very concerned about the particular level of subsidy that Gaylord is requesting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we -- looking at your New York hotels it seem RevPAR was little bit lower than maybe I would have anticipated.
Does that have something to do with kind of the Marriott is beyond a different time period? And then secondly as it relates to New York your I think there's a new developments going up at Radisson and another brand.
How do you think that's going to impact your business and would you potentially look to monetize some of these assets given the prices that have been paid for limited select service hotels in New York City recently? I'll start at the beginning.
I think that calendar had some impact on -- I assume you're not talking about nominal RevPAR but you're talking about RevPAR growth.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Sorry.
Yes.
And that was impacted to some extent by calendar but it's also impacted to some extent by supply.
And I think that -- are you referring to the Radisson Blu in Chicago that's opening? Research Division</strong> No I'm talking about -- there's like a Residence Inn I think going up somewhere in New York and then I think there is another brand going up as well along side of it.
Right.
There's a combination Radisson -- I mean excuse me Residence Courtyard going in planning.
There are several hotels under construction in New York and we are concerned about it.
We have said in the past that we know that first quarter is impacted in New York by the supply.
We think that the higher volume quarters will be certainly less impacted by the supply.
But you can't add this many hotel rooms in any market and not feel the impact.
And just to answer your final question about would we identify these as opportunistic sales.
I guess everything in the portfolio is for sale for a price.
But we remain very bullish on New York particularly where our hotels are located compared to where the supply is coming in the city.
We think we have a little bit of insulation given that in our little areas whether that's Midtown East or given where the -- where our Chelsea Hotel is some supply is coming in but we think we're not going to be as impacted as some other parts.
And we feel very bullish about the future of New York and about the demand trends over the next couple of years in New York.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Crow of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions for you.
You indicated that group pace was up 10% revenue.
Is that room revenues or total revenues? No.
That's room revenues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then what would total revenues with F&amp;B be? We don't really have that number because the groups have to be qualified as they get closer to actualization.
And by contract we don't keep track of the food and beverage per contract per hotel.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What is your expectation next year for group room revenues relative to total revenues? I think they'll be in the same 35% to 36% range that they are currently forecasted to be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you've got 60% of 35% at -- up 10%.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes 60% to 65% and up 10%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Somewhere in that range okay.
And then how many -- you talked about reshaping your portfolio or continuing to refine the portfolio.
How many hotels within your portfolio today could we consider as non-core or potentially a source of funds? There are probably 3 other hotels that would be on the disposition list over the next 24 to 36 months.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally for me in the prepared remarks you guys talked about the -- what perspectively could be a very attractive acquisition environment in 2012.
It seems like lately the bid/ask spreads have widened.
Maybe your deal didn't get impacted by that but that seems to be the feel out there.
Is your view on the attractive acquisition environment predicated on those spreads narrowing or do you see distress out there that will force some sales? What is your view for next year? I think the reason we think it could be an attractive acquisition environment is because of the potential distress of debt coming due the inevitable narrowing of the bid/ask spread that you talk about.
And I think those factors lead us to believe that it could be an attractive acquisition environment next year.
Your next question comes from line of Tim Wengerd of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> In your prepared remarks you commented on the increase in per diem rates.
After the sale about how much of the annual revenue is at the per diem rate? Government makes up about 4% of our total revenue.
It's probably a little bit more of an impact given that some of the other -- some other customers attract the government rate.
But it's not a huge percentage of our overall portfolio.
But it's in -- I think for next year it will be a headwind versus a tailwind that we've seen in 2000.
Tailwind versus the headwind.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
As you look forward are there any significant changes to property tax assessments that you expect or are there any municipalities where you think tax assessments could be a concern going forward? We are constantly in discussions with the various jurisdictions.
We currently have anywhere between 35% and 40% of our portfolio is under appeal right now.
I think what you've seen property taxes tend to lag.
So what you've seen is as things were on the downturn assessments went down but I'm not sure they've caught up quite yet.
And so there might be some upside but we don't -- from a modeling perspective we don't model any property tax wins until we actually win the case.
So we assume status quo in our projections.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Tony.
To everyone on this call we would like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
Goodbye.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 DiamondRock Hospitality Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Karissa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Mark Brugger CEO.
Please proceed.
Thanks Karissa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by John Williams our President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
It may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP in our earnings press release.
DiamondRock achieved great success in 2011.
We executed on our strategic objectives.
And as a result DiamondRock continues to be a leading lodging REIT with exceptionally strong balance sheet and premium portfolio of high-quality hotels in top growth markets.
Overall we hold firm to our conviction that lodging fundamentals are in early stages of a recovery that will benefit the entire industry.
However we are particularly bullish on DiamondRock for several specific reasons.
First there's a lot of upside in our existing portfolio.
To put our upside in perspective if our portfolio only reaches prior peak levels of 2007 and we project much greater growth that will mean that we will see $80 million in additional hotel EBITDA growth from last year's results equivalent to 48% growth over 2011.
Importantly since our portfolio is forecasted to exceed prior peak occupancy in 2012 much of our future growth is coming from highly profitable increases in room rates.
Second after the disposition of the 3-pact hotels under contract Inland which we expect to close very soon the company will have completed over $1 billion of transformational hotel transactions since early 2010.
After these transactions the portfolio quality is even higher with 95% of our hotel profits coming from hotels located at gateway cities and destination resort locations.
By all accounts these urban resort markets will outperform the rest of the lodging industry over the next decade.
We expect our portfolio weighted in New York City Chicago and Boston to lead the way for the company going forward.
Third our $45 million repositioning effort at Frenchman's Reef resort is substantially complete.
We expect to exceed our original 2012 pro forma underwriting our 2012 budget for Frenchman's reflects over $14 million in EBITDA growth from 2011 and the hotel's future funnel of booking continues to indicate that these coming years will be very successful.
Fourth we signed a term sheet with Marriott to convert one of our largest hotels the Lexington Hotel in midtown Manhattan from a Radisson to a member of the Marriott Autograph Collection.
In connection with this rebranding effort we plan to invest $30 million of incremental capital to upgrade the hotel.
We anticipate significant rate potential arising out of this repositioning.
Finally with the completion of the sale to Inland and our Lexington Hotel financing we will continue to maintain one of the most enviable balance sheets among our lodging peers with 2012 debt to EBITDA of just over 4x an undrawn corporate revolver no corporate debt and significant cash.
Our balance sheet strength gives us ample dry powder to be opportunistic in the acquisition market.
Turning to operating results.
Today we are pleased to report strong results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 a continued evidence of substantial recovery in lodging fundamentals.
For the full year pro forma RevPAR increased 6.3% and adjusted EBITDA was $162.1 million which resulted in adjusted FFO per share of $0.62.
Results would have been even higher except for the impact of 2 one-time items the $10 million in total renovation disruption at our Caribbean resort and we recorded an unexpected write-off of approximately $1 million in receivables related to the American Airlines bankruptcy.
We saw exceptional performance from a number of our hotels in 2011.
Particularly noteworthy we experienced double-digit RevPAR growth at the Chicago Conrad the Sonoma Renaissance the Alpharetta Marriott and the Chicago Oak Brook Hills Marriott.
Additionally the Hilton Minneapolis a 2010 acquisition turned in a RevPAR gain of almost 9%.
Results were more challenged at the Griffin Gate Marriott due to a difficult comp and the Austin Renaissance.
Both of these hotels are included in the 3-pact sales transaction which is expected to close in short order.
We wanted to quickly touch on the much publicized snowfall out west and its impact in our Vail Resort.
We're happy to report that the snowfall has been considerable better over the last 7 weeks.
In addition one of our asset management initiatives last year was to implement a 45-day cancellation policy at the hotel.
This policy allowed us to preserve our December reservations and report a 6% RevPAR increase for December at our Vail resort.
We'd also like to take this opportunity to update on some particular events in the company.
First the Lexington Hotel in New York City.
As John will discuss in more detail we are planning to rebrand the Lexington Hotel and invest capital to allow this asset to reach its full potential.
While the hotel already runs over 90% occupancy we're convinced that implementing a strategy of rebranding the hotel will result in significant rate upside.
We are also close to finalizing a $170 million loan on this hotel at an attractive rate.
This loan allows us to completely pay off our corporate revolver and further positions us to be opportunistic on acquisitions.
Second an update on the Allerton Chicago Hotel.
We hold the senior note on the Allerton Hotel on Michigan Avenue in Chicago.
As you may recall we took advantage of a distressed debt situation and purchased the note for approximately $60 million or the equivalent of only $135 000 per key which is a substantial discount to the face value of the note.
The note is in bankruptcy or the hotel is in bankruptcy and we feel good about our cost basis and secured position.
We expect resolution of this matter later this year either by attaining ownership of the hotel or receiving a valuable new note.
We will keep you advised as this one plays out.
Lastly an update on the Chicago Conrad Hotel.
The Conrad Hotel had a great 2011 and looks like it'll have another terrific year in 2012.
However during the downturn in 2010 the hotel failed its performance test.
We used this as an opportunity to negotiate a win-win deal with Hilton that gave us a brand-new multiyear performance guarantee which paid us $750 000 last year and is projected to pay us $800 000 this year.
As John will discuss we're also investing $3.5 million in valuable ROI projects at this hotel.
As I mentioned earlier we remain optimistic about lodging fundamentals.
With supply growth that less than 1/2 of the historic average and occupancy levels already up the industry has a terrific backdrop for pricing power as demand continues to improve.
Our outlook for upper upscale hotels in North America is for 2012 RevPAR growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
This outlook is based on our valuation of key indicators for demand such as corporate profit growth corporate investment employment trends and leisure spending trends.
We do expect certain markets to outperform in 2012.
Among the markets in which we are concentrated Boston is likely to be the strongest.
An operator budget is showing double-digit RevPAR growth for our Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel.
Chicago Austin should enjoy a good year with a very strong financial calendar.
Although we do expect our Chicago Marriott Downtown to experience some negative but isolated impact from the G-8 Summit in May.
Salt Lake City will be another top-performing market with a solid commencing calendar and a grand opening next month of the exacting $1 billion City Creek mixed use project which is adjacent to our hotel.
We expect our Salt Lake City Marriott to achieve close to double-digit RevPAR growth in 2012.
New York City our most important market has started off strong with double-digit RevPAR growth in January.
We are budgeting 5% to 7% RevPAR increases in 2012 for our 4 hotels in that market.
Other strong markets for us include Charleston and Sonoma a prime beneficiary of the resurgence in the San Francisco market.
we would also note that we expect more modest growth at the Hilton Minneapolis due to a tough commencing calendar comp Bethesda Suites from a soft year in DC and at the Vail Marriott as a result of delayed snowfall.
Additionally 2012 RevPAR guidance will be 75 basis points higher and adjusted EBITDA will be higher by $3 million but for the expected displacement from the facade project at Worthington Renaissance and the impact of the G-8 Summit on the Chicago Marriott Downtown.
Real estate taxes are also expected to be up $4 million in 2012.
Overall I am pleased to report that 2012 is off to a very strong start.
In reviewing our January operating results for the portfolio excluding noncomp Frenchman’s we achieved impressive RevPAR growth of 10%.
We experienced particularly outstanding results from our hotel in New York City Chicago and Sonoma.
These results reaffirm our convictions of the company's portfolio is well-positioned for growth.
Now let's turn to 2012 guidance.
I'd like to emphasize the disclosure in our press release that our 2012 RevPAR guidance includes our hotels that were owned since January 1 2011 with the exception of Frenchman's Reef and the 3 hotels classified as held for sale.
In addition the adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO guidance includes the presale operations from these 3 hotels.
Finally adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO guidance excludes cash interest payments and legal fees related to the Allerton Hotel which is a change from 2011 and may be different than that way you want to model it for 2012.
Accordingly the company expects the following full year 2012 results: RevPAR growth of 4% to 6%; adjusted EBITDA of $167 million to $176 million; adjusted FFO per share of $0.68 to $0.72.
For the first quarter 2012 we expect RevPAR growth of 5.5% to 7.5%; adjusted EBITDA of $18 million to $21 million; and adjusted FFO per share of $0.06 to $0.08.
Before turning the call over to John to discuss operating results in more detail I do want to comment on dividends.
In 2007 DiamondRock's shareholders were paid over $54 million in cash dividends.
We believe that dividends are an important part of the investment thesis of being a REIT.
To us paying a meaningful dividend generally indicates prudent balance sheet management and a commitment to shareholder returns.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As Mark mentioned the lodging industry in 2011 enjoyed continued improvement in operating trends.
We believe that we're set up for a sustained recovery and an extended lodging upturn because of the absence of new supply the indications of continued recovery in the U.S.
economy and increasing international travel activity.
The fourth quarter continued the positive trends of the year and even showed improvement in areas that had previously lagged like banquet sales.
In describing our results and to provide our investors with the clearest report on how our portfolio actually performed I will exclude the 3 hotels held for sale and Frenchman's Reef which had inventory out of service for several months from the renovation.
In the fourth quarter RevPAR for the DiamondRock portfolio increased 6.2% driven by equal contributions from increases in rate and volume.
Fourth quarter food and beverage revenue was up 7.1% and included a very encouraging 7.9% increase in high-profit margin banquet and AV.
Our aggressive initiatives on food costs and menu refinements along with higher banquet sales enabled food and beverage margins to increase 64 basis points in the quarter.
Cost controls remain a focus of management and house profit margin increased 113 basis points compared to Q4 2010.
Demand was good in the fourth quarter with all segments showing growth more evidence of continued demand recovery.
Group revenue in the quarter was up 7.6%.
Business transient was up 1.8%; leisure and other discount revenue was up 5.5%.
And contract and other revenue was up 40%.
The room segmentation for the portfolio by revenue in Q4 was 32% group 33% business transient 29% leisure and 6% contract and other reflecting the very balanced revenue mix of our portfolio.
We are encouraged by productivity gains and wage controls.
Overall productivity for the portfolio was good with man-hours per occupied room down slightly and sales per man-hour up 4% in the quarter.
Overall for the quarter salaries and wages were up 2.1% and benefits were up 2.7% a very good result in light of the higher volumes of both rooms and food and beverage at the hotels.
Travel agent commissions and credit card fees continue to negatively impact costs and trend higher at approximately 15% and 5% respectively.
Support costs in the quarter were well-controlled and were up only a total of 3.7%.
In support costs sales and marketing and G&amp;A costs were higher partially from increased occupancy up 5.8% and 4.7% respectively.
These costs were partially offset by modest increases in repairs and maintenance up 1.4% and utilities which were lower by about 3% reflecting the $4 million we've invested in energy savings initiatives across the portfolio as well as energy contracts we've negotiated in the past year.
Our most recent group booking pace continues to be strong.
Including Frenchman's Reef 2012 revenue pace is up a robust 10.5% at the end of period 1.
Some other favorable trends for the DiamondRock portfolio.
In 2011 portfolio pro forma occupancy reached within 70 basis points of its prior peak.
We expect to surpass the prior peak level of occupancy in 2012 and gain additional pricing power.
Consequently future revenue growth should come primarily from rate resulting in greater flow-through.
2011 group revenue was up about 5% for the full year mostly in rate.
Short-term bookings are down in volume but up in rate.
Together with the increasing pace this is a clear indication that booking windows are lengthening.
Therefore with less inventory to sell given the near peak occupancy and lengthening booking windows segmentation strategy will be better and group pricing should continue to strengthen.
Even more telling about our ability to improve profits through mix shift.
In 2011 business transient room nights and average rate were both approximately 13% below prior peak levels of 2007.
Leisure and discount room nights are 20% above prior peak and leisure average rate was 12% below prior peak.
Therefore the opportunity to shift share and recover rate in both segments is very clear.
Shifting business within the BT segment was already taking place in 2011 as the trend of replacing lower-rated special corporate business with premium-rated business was present for the full year and accelerated in Q4.
In summary the fourth quarter was a very good quarter for the company with revenue costs in both transient and group pace continuing to trend well and with food and beverage margins lead by increased banquet sales improving at an accelerating rate.
We believe that these trends will continue as the recovery continues.
And if supply remains muted we'll allow our portfolio to surpass prior peak revenue and profit levels in the next couple of years.
Turning to asset management.
Our asset management efforts on both capital projects and operational initiatives have been extensive.
First the Frenchman's Reef resort after substantially completing the $45 million renovation is open and has been very well-received by both leisure travelers and group meeting planners.
We are excited that year-to-date today 2012 it has outperformed its aggressive budget and has raised its forecast for the quarter.
The resort looks fantastic and the future is bright.
Unfortunately the recent past was more choppy as the Q4 results were dramatically impacted by expected one-time events occurring at the end of the renovation.
In the fourth quarter challenges in the turnover of rooms from the contractor created a significant revenue displacement.
Additionally wholesalers were more cautious than we anticipated about booking the hotel before they could see the finished product which led to a slower ramp in the fall.
Finally we had some bad luck with a break in the intake pipe that provides water for the chillers that run the property's air conditioning system.
This led to significant displacement of several hundred room nights.
These 3 unforeseen problems caused a $4 million miss to the Q4 budget.
Total 2011 renovation disruption came in at $10 million.
As I said the future looks great for the resort.
At this point the resort is fully operational and we have hosted familiarization tours with most of the high-producing wholesalers and group meeting planners all of whom are very enthusiastic about the renovation.
The hotel guest scores are the highest in the recent history of the resort and customer comments are dramatically better.
So we're very optimistic that this flagship Marriott Resort will perform well from this point forward.
Secondly we've determined that we will rebrand the Lexington Hotel in midtown Manhattan to an Autograph Collection hotel which will occur after a $30 million upgrade is complete in 2013.
We believe that the Autograph affiliation will give us the power of the Marriott reservation and marketing system while allowing the hotel to continue to capitalize on the significant brand equity of the Lexington name and provide a unique independent hotel guest experience.
Third as we mentioned last quarter we're in the design phase of a re-concepting and significant meeting space addition at the Conrad Hotel in Chicago.
The plan will include a dramatic activation of the lobby and food and beverage outlets on the fifth floor including upgrading the popular outdoor terrace.
We'll add over 4 000 square feet of meeting space by relocating be nonrevenue producing administrative offices.
We will gain an additional suite by splitting the presidential suite into 2 deluxe suites both with outdoor terraces.
We anticipate the project will cost approximately $3.5 million and will provide a very substantial return on investment.
As we mentioned we have restructured our financial relationship with Hilton which will provide a significantly better NOI at the hotel.
Overall our asset managers are working tirelessly with our operators to maximize results in our properties.
We're seeing results from the adjustments we and Marriott made to Marriott new sales organization as it relates to DiamondRock's portfolio with lead generation and closing ratios both up substantially.
Turning to capital recycling.
The dispositions of the hotels Mark mentioned will improve our portfolio of quality profit and growth metrics.
The proceeds from the sales and the reduction in mortgage debt will improve our capital structure and substantially increase our investment capacity.
This has also been a great time to buy.
In 2011 we bought 3 hotels and agreed to acquire the exciting development project at 42nd and Broadway in Times Square.
As Mark said and it's worth emphasizing all 6 of the hotels that we acquired since 2010 are performing in line or above our underwriting proformas and have significantly upgraded the portfolio.
We're encouraged that 2012 will be a good year for acquisitions.
We're seeing increasing number of opportunities after a pause last fall.
We anticipate that there will be motivated sellers in 2012 because of the backlog of debt maturities private equity funds recycling assets and a stronger demand from public companies to acquire assets as market strengthens.
Because we believe that we are still early in the cycle we are optimistic that we can use our strong balance sheet to buy high-quality hotels that will create significant shareholder value.
2012 is setting up for a strong year.
The fundamentals of our portfolio including both group and transient pace strong citywide conventioneers in Boston and Chicago the completion of the $1 billion City Creek Project surrounding our Salt Lake City Hotel the renovated Frenchman's Reef resort and limited supply increases in most markets make us optimistic that 2012 will be another great year for DiamondRock.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
With that we would now like to open the call for any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Will Marks of JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I think my first question I just wanted to ask about Mark the comment you made I think early on about was it $80 million of EBITDA that you had at the peak that you don't have now.
That's correct.
So if we look at our hotels the entire portfolio of what they earned in 2007 versus what they earned in 2011 it's an $80 million difference in hotels adjusted EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> And what portfolio are you referring to? Would it be pro forma for the asset sales? Yes it's pro forma for the asset sales for the 23 hotels -- pro forma asset sales.
Research Division</strong> Next question on the acquisitions you're looking at.
Who are the sellers these days? Well I would say the sellers are primarily private equity.
You know the public company hotels sell for disposition but the ones that we're seeing are primarily private equity that may have debt maturities coming up or anticipating a relatively early debt maturity.
So I think that's going to be the bulk of the traffic.
Having said that in the first quarter we have not seen a dramatic increase in inventory for sale but we anticipate that it will come.
Research Division</strong> And the assets you're looking at are they assets that maybe have some distressed issues or you'd have solid initial yields? Yes I think given the level of capital activity that we've got going in the portfolio right now I think our preference would be for relatively stabilized assets.
We will obviously look at opportunistic turnarounds if we think there's enough upside.
But we I think stable yielding assets would probably be our first choice at this point.
Will this is Mark.
Just to reemphasize that point we're looking for assets in top growth markets that can outperform over the next 5 years so the distinction is with a 0 cash flow we need to put rooms in vacant floors either half done with kind of building it or renovations.
We're looking for assets in markets like Seattle San Francisco Miami where maybe there is a rebranding opportunity or some light amount of capital for a reasonable amount of effort we can see all the upside in that market along with potentially a rebranding opportunity or repositioning effort on those assets.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark I'm just curious I mean how do you think about the prospects for consolidation in the sector now that some companies are trading at or above NAV and some below.
And I guess maybe as a follow-up to that do you guys think that your balance sheet is at a point where you're positioned to take advantage of any opportunities should they come to pass or do you think anything else needs to be done there? Yes I think a couple of comments on consolidation.
One is I think there is logic to a consolidator in the space and having alternative to host at some point so I do see Marriott in that proposition.
As far as a likely combination I think we have a balance sheet to be an acquirer or one of the best balance sheets of the industry.
But as far as the particular sellers there's a lot of factors that go into that from companies that may be too small to survive over the long-term and efficiently.
To other people where they may just have capital structures where they need a solution which can only come through a combination of companies to solve their balance sheet challenges.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you want to name any of them? Maybe that's helpful.
And if I could ask switch gears maybe with John what's the term on the agreement with Marriott.
Do they look for or -- or I should say Autograph do they look for 3-year agreements? And maybe as a follow-up.
How do fees compare with say a full-on Marriott branded hotel with any of the capital that you have to put in that hotel sort of influenced by Autograph or is that really kind of all driven by you guys? Okay Jeff the agreement with Marriott for the Autograph is a franchise agreement.
Those typically run for a 20-year term.
The fees for Autograph and Renaissance are lower than the fees for Marriott.
I think that was your question.
And what we have for Marriott is a combination of key money and a ramp in the fees for the early years to help compensate for the renovation work that needs to be done.
And Jeff this is Mark.
Just to add on one of the things that's unique about Autograph is they'll let you franchise a large hotel where the brand may not let you do that or with a Marriott brand I don't know of any hotel that -- say would let you franchise and we see a big advantage to franchise.
We also really like the Autograph over some other brand alternatives because it allows you to appeal to that guest that wants a unique experience in New York but also wants to be able to submit that to his company on expense account as a hotel that they're allowed to stay at and they can get their points and make the reservations through the reservation system.
So we see a lot of efficiencies in going with the Autograph brand there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I mean thus far based on what maybe the folks at Marriott are telling you do you guys think you get the full power of Marriott`s reservation system kind of on the cheap going this route? Yes.
I wouldn't call it on the cheap.
But I think we do feel you get the full value of the Marriott reservation system.
We show up at the same time as Marriotts and Renaissance show up on the webpage and I think in general the customer will be aware as they book that they're going to get the rewards points they can make the reservations through the brand.com and when they get to the hotel they will have a certain level of expectation which we hope to augment by driving the independent brand equity of the Lexington Hotel.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I apologize if I missed this in your remarks and I know Frenchman isn't in your same-store pool for 2012 but I just to be sure I am capturing it right in our model this year and for next year can you give us a sense of maybe what the year-over-year change in EBITDA is looking like for '12 versus 2011? Just I know last year had the disruption in it but I would imagine there should be a pretty substantial increase and I guess maybe can you give us a sense how it is faring in the first 60 days of the year versus your expectations.
Jeff this is Sean.
Let me start with a top level sort of a bridge from 2011 to 2012 at the midpoint of our range.
We reported $162 million of EBITDA.
You have to back out 10 from the impact of on our dispositions as well as our acquisitions or dispositions for the full year and the acquisitions for the pre-period the pre-acquisition period and back out 1 for the net Allerton difference between 2012 when we are going to exclude that versus 2011.
So that to get the midpoint of our guidance that gives us a little bit over $20.5 million of portfolio growth within DiamondRock.
And of that $20.5 million about $10 million of that is disruption from Frenchman’s and the balance from the other portfolio.
Now Frenchman’s specifically is going to have some year-over-year growth is also we are expecting approximately $14 million of growth in Frenchman’s from 2011 to 2012 which is assumed within that little over $20 portfolio growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just one last question actually on Vail.
I'm just curious what's happened in room demand overall in that market.
It sounds like asset management plan to kind of change the cancellation policy really helped during Q4 and you can see it in your EBITDA numbers but maybe I'm misreading your comment about how you expect Vail to be underperforming this year.
Does that mean subsequent to quarter end you guys have seen some falloff in demand in the market or is it really just more of a supply threat that kind of is triggering that comment? Yes Jeff January started as a low snow month so to the extent we didn't have the reservations on the books pickup was slower.
It wasn't down dramatically but it was slower.
As word has gotten out of the snow conditions' dramatic improvement we see great results coming in February and March.
So overall for the quarter I think we will probably lose a little in January and hopefully not much in February or March and Easter is late this year so we'll get a little bit of a pickup in early April assuming the snow keeps coming.
Your next question comes from the line of Sule Sauvigne of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned your group pace was up 10.5%.
Is that for 2012? It is for 2012 and it includes Frenchman's Reef.
And excludes the disposition hotels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It includes them? Excludes the disposition hotels.
Research Division</strong> What would be the pricing that you're seeing for those bookings? The 10.5% is about 70% rooms and 30% price.
We expect that in the year -- for the year pickup will be the reverse of that.
We'll be higher price and lower room nights.
So net net we expect it to be a little bit different ratio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And specifically your Frenchman's Reef can you provide more details on kind of forward group bookings for the property post renovations? Sure.
Frenchman's Reef the pace in 2012 is up about 43%.
Research Division</strong> How about pricing? That 43% is about -- it's mostly room nights but that again because we had rooms out of service.
And 3% in rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any early indications of 2013 bookings there? Yes we have -- well not really there's not enough volume but it's up about 6% so far but it's pretty early -- that's a short-term booking house.
And the next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
You just again mentioned Marriott group sales programs.
What are some of the things that we've done there? I know you've added back staff where necessary but are there other things you've done to improve the flow and the close rate there? Then second can you just give us an updated timeline on Times Square when you think it should open and what kind of EBITDA you expect in stabilization of that asset and when do you think -- when do you expect it to be stabilized? Thank you.
Sure.
On the Marriott sales programs some of the changes we made specific to our portfolio is we added destination salespeople at the hotel and the purpose of that was to basically feel the leads do site visits and help close the business.
With respect to the sales offices themselves in Chicago for example we worked with Marriott to create a downtown sales office where the original organization called for Chicago land sales office covering 100 hotels.
We created a downtown specific sales office which obviously helps us with the largest Marriott presence in downtown Chicago.
In some of the other markets it was really kind of refocusing of efforts and what Marriott concentrated on was 2 things in particular.
And that was improving the closure ratio in other words the leads are already well above but the closing ratio was down and they have done a really good job of improving that.
And then the what they call pitching and catching -- the export of business if you will from one sales office to another area.
Research Division</strong> Have you seen real evidence of the pitching and catching working in effect? Well yes we - the numbers Marriott gives are our actual numbers.
With respect to our individual hotels we've not necessarily tracked it.
In terms of 42nd Street we anticipate that that will -- has started construction will take about 2 years to complete.
So sometime in '14 it will open -- I'm sorry sometime in the second quarter of '14 it will open and we anticipate a $15 million EBITDA for the hotel.
Research Division</strong> And that $15 million that's under stabilization or in '14? That's stabilization.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Didora of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just it seems like you had a nice acceleration in the New York market in January from 4Q.
Can you give a little bit more color around what's driving this and then can you also give us a breakdown in terms of whether the strength is coming more from the Radisson property or from your more limited service properties? Yes A couple of things in that.
First of all the first quarter if you remember in '11 had a weather impact.
So there were some snow events that caused a fairly easy comp.
Number two and this is specific to our portfolio obviously because so much depends on where you are within the city.
At the Lexington Hotel we were able to put in a contract of airline room nights of $200 a night which had a dramatic impact on the January results and fourth quarter results and will go going forward.
And then at the Marriott hotels it was on the Midtown hotel we felt the impact of Citibank which is a major producer out there and Fifth Avenue I think -- a little bit of a supply but in January they both performed pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up on the Marriott sales transformation process.
Is there any way for you guys to quantify in terms of your current booking case how much might be attributable to the transformation? Not really but I can tell you the Marriott component of our pace report is up about 500 basis points more than the balance.
That's not really meaningful because it's not a fair sample size but it's encouraging to us because the 13% pace improvement in the Marriott portion of the portfolio is a very strong pace.
Your next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you said your group trends were up 10.5%.
What are they if you exclude Frenchman's Reef? If you exclude Frenchman’s they're about 9 and change.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I think that's kind of in line with what you guys had given on your last conference call.
So is that what you would have expected that the pace is kind of flat sequentially or is that better or worse than you would have thought for now? Yes I think we saw last year a trend every quarter the pace improved.
I think it flattened out a little bit in the fourth quarter but it's still very positive.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another thing I wanted to ask you.
Why is the G8 meeting in Chicago a negative at your hotel I tend to think of those big meetings as positives for the hotels.
The problem with the G8 is the amount of protest activity if you will that it generates.
And so we've had one major group cancelation about $1 million worth of State Farm business.
They paid the cancellation fee and hopefully we'll be able to replace the business but we're anticipating that other groups are going to be reluctant and transient travelers are going to be reluctant to show up coincidentally  with the G8 just because of the protest activity.
Your next question comes from Dan Donlan with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Allerton.
So where should -- is the cash interest payments -- are they going to be coming in through interest income or how is that going to flow through the income statement now.
Again this is Sean.
The cash -- the accounting treatment is going to continue year-over-year.
Any interest that we receive will be accounted for at the reduction of bases.
The difference that we're doing this year versus 2011 is because of the uncertainty on the timing of the resolution of the bankruptcy we thought it just made more sense to exclude both the expected cash interest payment coming out of the hotel as well as the legal fees that we plan on incurring during 2012 from our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just curious on the asset management plan in Vail.
Was it -- was a new policy to enact a 45-day non-cancellation policy? This is the first time we've done it yes beginning this season.
Research Division</strong> Do you worry at all that those people that booked rooms that had to pay for them 45 days that they potentially may not ever come back to the hotel? We work pretty hard to keep those people happy just for the reason that the skiing was limited but there was skiing and there were other activities going on in Lions Head in particular and Vail in general.
So we didn't have a lot of dissatisfaction among the guests.
We anticipated it and we've put in some programs to make sure that the guest service was exemplary and we made sure that they understood exactly what parts of the mountain were open.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just moving on to the Lexington Radisson.
So is there going to be a point in time where you’re not going to have access to Radisson's reservation system and not have access to the Marriott's reservation system as well? There may be a period when we run as an independent.
We have analyzed that pretty carefully and we're still working with Radisson about timing of the termination of that relationship.
We feel pretty comfortable that although there'll be a revenue hit it won't be substantial because our operator Highgate operates several independent hotels in the city and has a pretty good handle on what we can generate as an independent from a revenue standpoint and of course we don't pay fees and we have other costs we can scale back in the interim while we are operating as an independent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're definitely going to keep Highgate in as the operator even when it does potentially or will potentially become a Autograph? That's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Over the last 2 quarters you gave us a segment break out of the transient and leisure segments.
It seems like leisure has been keeping pace you're doing better than your overall RevPAR growth and transient's been the opposite kind of been lagging.
Can you provide us a little bit more color on those 2 segments and your outlook for them in '12? Yes if you look at the numbers I gave you were for the quarter.
If you look in the total year excluding Frenchman's and Inland it's about 4.5% group growth 6.7% business transient growth and 5% leisure and discounts.
The area where we have had a different increase but it's kind of higher increase but kind of law of small numbers is in the contract and other.
And I just described an air line contract we put in the Lexington which had an impact on that number.
So what we're seeing in general though is we are able to shift demand within each segment to higher-rated categories and that trend has accelerated in the fourth quarter.
We expect it to continue into '12.
So it's both the increase within the segment itself but it's also the shift in the rate strategy within the segments.
So if the numbers I gave for the comparison to peak show that we've got between room nights and rate in business transient we've got a 13% cap to what we did in the same portfolio in 2007.
And in leisure and other we've got 20% more room nights than we had at peak and it's at a significantly lower rate.
And so there's obvious opportunity for revenue management within the segments and among the segments.
Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Once you guys source new acquisitions will you look to sell more assets? So currently the Inland sales for $262 million that will put our balance sheet if I think about that the proceeds from that to pay down the debt and the new proceeds from the Lexington loan after dividends that will leave us year-end cash balance of about $150 million in debt-to-EBITDA a little bit over 4x for the year which probably gives us at least $0.25 billion of investment capacity.
We're still being well within our target leverage -- what we think is a very conservative target leverage level.
So the issue in equity will depend if we think that we're going to do more than $250 million of transaction during in the near term.
So it will be a valuation of what the pipeline looks like at that time.
LLC Research Division</strong> So there's no real assets in the portfolio right now that you guys might want to recycle.
There is always -- I think we said in the last call there is probably 2 -- everyone by definition has a bottom 20% of their portfolio.
We're constantly striving to improve our portfolio.
So there are 1 or 2 assets that we might consider for dispositions this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what were your guys pro forma peak margins? Our pro forma peak adjusted EBITDA margins were approximately -- a little under 32%.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of David Loeb of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just have a simple clarification Mark I apologize if you went over this.
But I believe you said with the Allerton note the resolution is likely to be either you own the hotel or you have a new note.
Can you just talk a little bit about what that now might look like? And Sean does that mean when you take over that new note would you book again then from your now lower basis? Okay David this is Mark.
So it's currently in bankruptcy court now.
They submit the plan.
We may object to that plan or go through a couple of literations and one of the resolutions may be that the bankruptcy judge decides to let them stay in foreclosure and allows us to foreclose the asset and take ownership.
So that's one possibility.
The other is since we are a secured creditor that they need to give us something of equivalent value to the face amount of our note.
The face amount today and there's a lot of moving pieces here but it's significantly more than we pay for the note.
So they would have to give us a new note at market terms which is of equivalent value to the note we currently have now.
So exactly what that looks like we're not sure at the moment.
Research Division</strong> So getting paid off is not really on the table anymore.
Well getting paid off.
We can't put ourselves in the shoes of the debtor here but my guess is that at some point they want to sell this asset and the potential new acquirer may decide that they don't want this debt on the hotel so that's when we would most likely get paid off.
So David with respective to the gain I wouldn't anticipate a significant gain on this transaction.
What we will do is if in fact we get the new note we would record that at fair value at that time but I wouldn't anticipate a big significant gain from that note because the face value of our note is already in excess of our carrying value but we would mark that to fair value.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess finally on that point this is I guess a 2 part question.
The new note might that not be assumable so that the new owner if the hotel was sold would be in a position to keep that debt that's number one.
Number two would have interest in keeping that note or would you likely look to sell it? David it's all part of the negotiation.
What the bankruptcy judge decides ultimately is the market value about the transfer provisions.
The current note that we have is a typical securitized debt which has loan assumption has misfeasance and has loan assumption provisions in it.
So theoretically it could be transferred.
As far as whether we'd want to sell the note or not would probably depend on the interest rate and the duration of the note at the conclusion of the process.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Karissa.
To everyone on this call we would like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Diamondrock Hospitality Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Larry and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Mark Brugger.
Please proceed.
Thanks Larry.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Today I'm joined by John Williams our President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under Federal Securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP in our earnings press release.
I am pleased to report that our first quarter results exceeded both guidance and consensus estimates as a result of the strengthening of the U.S.
lodging fundamentals and the favorable market concentration of our hotels.
In the first quarter our portfolio delivered 8.8% RevPAR growth.
Our RevPAR growth outperformed first quarter industry RevPAR growth by almost 100 basis points.
Top line growth contributed to 119 basis point expansion in hotel adjusted EBITDA margins as high profit flowed through from both rooms and food and beverage departments.
Our margin expansion is especially impressive since more than 1/2 of the RevPAR growth was derived from growth in occupancy as opposed to rates.
It is our outperformance during the quarter and improved conviction in the lodging recovery that enabled us to significantly increase our 2012 guidance which I will discuss in a few minutes.
Finally the portfolio gained more than a full point of market share during the quarter.
The outperformance was broad throughout the portfolio with 18 of our 23 hotels exceeding budget.
As expected the Boston market continues to benefit from a favorable 2012 convention calendar.
The Westin Boston Waterfront achieved RevPAR growth of over 22%.
Additionally our 4 New York City hotels exceeded expectations and achieved even better RevPAR growth than the overall New York City MSA.
Our recent acquisition the Lexington Hotel in New York City led the group delivering RevPAR growth of over 13%.
Our 2 Courtyards in Midtown also delivered combined double-digit RevPAR growth.
The strength of the New York market was one of the catalysts in raising 2012 guidance.
Salt Lake City as we discussed in our prior call is really taking off as a result of the opening of the over $1 billion City Creek Center by Taubman.
Our Salt Lake City Marriott now enjoys a Main &amp; Main location as a result of the City Creek development.
First quarter RevPAR increased at this hotel an amazing 35%.
The Chicago market benefited from strong conventional volumes.
The Chicago Marriott Downtown increased RevPAR 9.4%.
The Oak Brook Hills Chicago Marriott appears to have turned the corner with first quarter RevPAR growth well into the double digits as result of strengthening of the Chicago submarkets.
Bethesda a small hotel for us underperformed as DC continues to be challenging.
And the Worthington Renaissance actually had a solid quarter taking into consideration the tough Super Bowl comp.
Overall we remain bullish on the growth potential of our portfolio.
To put our upside in perspective if our portfolio of 23 hotels only reaches prior peak levels of 2007 and we project much greater growth that will mean that we will see $80 million in additional hotel EBITDA growth from last year's results equivalent to 48% growth over 2011.
The first quarter results certainly show us on the right trajectory.
Before discussing the balance sheet strength and revised guidance we do want to provide investors with a few updates.
First construction has begun on the future Hilton Garden Inn Hotel in Times Square that we have under agreement.
At approximately $450 000 per key we think that this deal will deliver a great return for our shareholders.
Delivery is expected within 24 months.
This hotel will be our fifth hotel in New York City.
Second the Allerton Hotel which is a distressed debt opportunity we took advantage of continues to play out as we discussed on our last call.
We anticipate that this will get wrapped up later this year and expect to either end up with ownership of the hotel or a new note with a par value at a substantial premium to our cost basis.
Third I'm happy to report some exciting developments with the 712-room Lexington Hotel in New York City.
We completed the $170 million financing of the Hotel that allowed us to repay our corporate revolver and build our cash war chest.
Additionally we signed a franchise agreement during the quarter to convert the hotel to a Marriott Autograph Collection brand after completing a transformational $30 million renovation scheduled for early 2013.
Our team see significant rate upside for this hotel from both the renovations and the brand conversion.
Fourth we completed the sale of 3 non-core hotels for total consideration of about $273 million.
Note that there was roughly a $10 million gain recorded in the quarter related to this transaction which we have adjusted out of our reported numbers.
The sale of these of hotels located in Lexington Kentucky Northwest Atlanta and Arboretum Boston improved our portfolio quality and we believe our growth prospects going forward.
After this transaction 95% of our hotel EBITDA is now derived from hotels located in gateway cities and destination resort locations.
The completion of both these important transactions bolsters DiamondRock's already best-in-class balance sheet.
DiamondRock enjoys one of the lowest leverage levels of all lodging REITs with pro forma debt-to-2012 EBITDA of 4.2x.
And somewhat uniquely no corporate debt.
Additionally we comfortably have approximately $0.25 billion of investment capacity consisting of undrawn $200 million line of credit over $125 million of corporate cash and 12 unencumbered hotels.
In short we are in terrific position to take advantage of acquisition opportunities that we may uncover this year.
The other advantage of our low leverage combined with strong earnings is that it allows DiamondRock to pay a competitive dividend yield of 3%.
We remain committed to being an income company and believe that having a substantial dividend is an important component in delivering excellent shareholder returns over an extended period of time.
We will continue to reassess our dividend as operating results improve and we further evaluate our alternative investment opportunities.
Now turning to guidance.
We are pleased to significantly raise guidance.
The new guidance reflects a stronger-than-expected lodging recovery that we experienced in the first quarter as well as the positive trends continuing for the balance of the year.
Additionally there are some pleasant hotel-specific reasons.
In particular the G8 Summit being moved to Camp David from Chicago lessened the disruption in our forecast.
Separately the renovation disruption from the façade repair at the at the Worthington Hotel has been much less than anticipated.
Aided by a backdrop of severely restricted additions to new hotel supply our expectation for demand has increased as we continue to monitor the most established corollaries of GDP employment trends and business investment spending.
Our revised guidance is as follows: RevPAR growth of 6% to 8%; adjusted EBITDA of $177 million to $186 million; and adjusted FFO per share of $0.73 to $0.77.
In addition the company is introducing the following second quarter guidance: RevPAR growth of 5% to 7%; adjusted EBITDA of $47 million to $50 million; and adjusted FFO per share of $0.19 to $0.21.
I'll now turn the call over to John to discuss our results in a little more detail as well as touch on acquisition market.
John? Thanks Mark.
Q1 continued the trend of improved performance in our portfolio as increased demand in all segments led the occupancy up 4.3 percentage points and average rate up 2.3%.
We believe that we're set up for a sustained recovery and an extended lodging upturn because of the absence of new supply the indications of continued recovery in the U.S.
economy and increasing international travel activity.
In describing our results and to provide our investors with the clearest report on how our portfolio actually performed I'll exclude the 3 hotels sold in Q1 and Frenchman's Reef because of last year's substantial renovation unless I indicate otherwise.
In the first quarter RevPAR for the DiamondRock portfolio increased 8.8%.
First quarter food and beverage revenue was up 4.2% and included a 3.6% increase in high profit margin banquet and AV departments and a 7.3% increase in revenue in our outlets.
Demand was good in the first quarter with all segments showing growth more evidence of continued demand recovery.
The room segmentation for the portfolio by revenue in Q1 was 29% group 34% business transient 30% leisure and 7% contract and other reflecting a very balanced revenue mix of our portfolio.
We continue to see positive trends in the Business Transient segment with premium and special corporate rates up 7% and 6% respectively.
Our group booking pace continues to improve and as of Q1 revenue pace for the balance of 2012 is up 13.4% including Frenchman's Reef.
And bookings in the quarter for the quarter were up 54% in Q1.
Bookings in Q1 for the remainder of the year are up 16%.
We were able to deliver a large part of the portfolio revenue increases to the bottom line.
Our aggressive cost containment efforts over the past several years led to continued strong flow-through of 70% rooms despite a significant increase in occupancy and 40% in food and beverage.
The portfolio house profit margin increased 185 basis points compared to Q1 2011.
We were encouraged by productivity gains and wage controls.
Overall productivity of the portfolio was good with man-hours per occupied room down 1.8% and sales per man-hour up 4% in the quarter.
Travel agent commissions and credit card fees which have been growing faster than revenues over the past several quarters were up only about 1% and 2% respectively over Q1 last year.
Support costs in the quarter were well-controlled and were up only a total of 2.9%.
Sales and marketing and G&amp;A costs were higher partially from increased occupancy up 7.6% and 3.1% respectively.
These costs were partially offset by modest increases in R&amp;M and utilities which were lower by about 6% reflecting the $4 million we have invested in energy savings initiatives across the portfolio energy contracts we've negotiated in the past year and a mild winter.
In summary the first quarter was a very good quarter for the company with significant increases in revenue and excellent flow-through in both rooms and food and beverage.
Both group and transient pace continued to trend well.
Food and beverage sales and margins continued to improve with increasing demand.
We believe that these trends will continue as the recovery continues and together with muted supply will allow our portfolio to surpass prior peak revenue and profit levels in the next few years.
Turning to capital recycling.
The disposition of the hotels Mark mentioned have improved our portfolio quality profit and growth metrics.
The proceeds from the sales and the reduction in mortgage debt have improved our low-leverage capital structure and have substantially increased our investment capacity.
We remain encouraged that 2012 will be a good year for acquisitions.
We anticipate that there will be motivated sellers in 2012 because of the backlog of debt maturities private equity funds recycling assets and a stronger demand from public companies to acquire assets as the market strengthens.
Because we believe that we are still early in the cycle we're optimistic that we can use our strong balance sheet to buy high-quality hotels that will create significant shareholder value.
2012 is setting up for a strong year.
The fundamentals of our portfolio including both group and transient pace strong citywide convention years in Boston and Chicago the completion of the $1 billion City Creek Project surrounding our Salt Lake City Hotel the renovated Frenchman's Reef resort and limited supply increases in most markets give us confidence that the balance of the year will continue to outperform Q1.
We will continue to manage costs segmentation and pricing to ensure that our managers strive for peak profit performance.
Mark? Thanks John.
With that we would now like to open up the call for any questions that you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Sule Sauvigne.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering you mentioned that New York City was part of the reason you're raising guidance given the strong performance there.
And I'm just wondering what kind of RevPAR growth are you assuming for your hotels in that market? Well I can tell you that the RevPAR growth in the first quarter was about 10.7% and the market is up 8.3% the total market.
And that includes supply up at about 1.9% and demand at about 9.3%.
So the first quarter is typically the softest quarter in New York.
So that makes us feel pretty good about the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think last quarter you had said you're expecting your New York City hotels to be up 5% to 7% this year so is it fair to assume maybe now you're expecting somewhat higher than that? Sule this is Sean.
Yes we -- in our release the first -- sorry year end we said 5% to 7%.
Our expectations now for New York City are 6% to 8% for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel.
Research Division</strong> Just have 2 questions.
First just on Frenchman's can you give us maybe a little bit better perspective in terms of when the property should really start to ramp it was down -- it was up a lot in the quarter.
It was down a lot in last year's quarter but net-net the past 2 years it's about -- the RevPAR was where it was.
Should we really start to ramp through the year and then that's when you really get your return? And then also just a quick question on New York.
Can you give any commentary in terms of what you're seeing on 2 fronts one from the financial services industry and two do you guys track international travelers to your hotels and have you really been seeing an increase on the international travel side and the other thing on New York just your current thoughts about the supply and also specifically supply in the Times Square area which is seeing an increase over the next year or so.
Those questions would be good.
Okay Eli this is John.
On Frenchman's we're seeing dramatic increases in revenue and group revenue beginning in the second quarter.
If you remember the renovation started in the third quarter so the first 2 quarters are somewhat comparable.
But for the balance of the year we're seeing revenue up -- revenue group pace up 104% and that's about 95% rooms and 5% ADR.
So yes I think we expect the hotel to come out at or above pro forma this year.
And then big question is can we continue to wrap it in years 2 and 3 which we protect in our pro forma.
As far as New York international travel we don't specifically track that except at the Lexington Hotel.
And at the Lexington Hotel we are not seeing a dramatic falloff in International business.
As a matter of fact Lexington sort of surprised us on the upside in the first quarter as did the 2 Courtyards.
Chelsea is a little bit more challenged because of supply in the Chelsea area.
As far as supply at Times Square we are much less concerned being that our development project is at 42nd and Broadway the heart of Times Square.
I think that demand sort of emanates from 42nd and Broadway.
So we're not concerned about it at this point in Times Square.
We're a little bit concerned about it in the balance of the city although as I just said supply is down about 1.9% this year and demand is up over 8%.
So it appears that demand is keeping up and even staying ahead of the supply.
Our next question comes from the line of Will Marks.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you first just tied to the last question you mentioned about not tracking the international travel but I think in your prepared comments you talked about that's a key driver of growth.
I think I misunderstood you though.
Well I said that's one of the components that leads us to believe that there's a bright future in this cycle of lodging.
International travel to New York and other gateway cities.
The Courtyards aren't that a big player in the international market except as it creates compression in the city.
The Lexington however is about 35% of its business comes primarily from Europe and that's where I said we've not really seen a falloff.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Second question just on maybe some general comments on what you're seeing with group travel from some of the other companies it sounds as if we're hearing group is picking up.
Yes we're feeling very good about group.
For the balance of the year we have about 13.4% increase over last year's pace.
That's with Frenchman's Reef -- or excuse me that -- yes that's with Frenchman's Reef.
Within the year we're seeing a dramatic pickup in the quarter for the quarter and in the quarter for the balance of the year.
And those numbers are very encouraging as well.
Research Division</strong> Do you have the figures without Frenchman's Reef is there a way to separate it out? I do excluding Frenchman's Reef the portfolio for the balance of the year is about 10.7%.
That's about 6% in room nights and about 4% in food and -- excuse me in ADR.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And that's basically bookings for the last 9 months of the year versus same time last year? That's right.
Research Division</strong> And then just final question on -- kind of tied to Allerton.
I mean it sounds like there could be a pretty favorable result here.
Are you looking at any other debt deals or you think we'll see all equity going forward? The Allerton been an interesting process and certainly a learning process for us we think we'll have a favorable outcome there.
Currently we're evaluating and John can touch a little bit more on the pipeline we're evaluating some of the hotel opportunities.
We are not currently evaluating other distressed debt opportunities we don't see any that are interesting in the market currently.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark I think I asked you the question last quarter about whether or not you guys thought you had the balance sheet to participate in any sort of industry consolidation should that come to pass.
I'm just curious to see if maybe your view on the industry landscape has changed and maybe what odds you see for much potential for consolidation in the industry over the next 12 to 18 months.
Yes I do think we have the -- I mean one of the comments we made last quarter was that we have a balance sheet among the lowest levered in the industry.
And there is a potential to be consolidator and get some size that reduce the cost of capital.
That was something that the company would be interested in.
There's obviously the public-to-public.
There are also some interesting portfolios opportunities out there that we could take advantage of given our balance sheet.
So those are things that we strategically think about over the next 12 to 24 months as potential.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I apologize if I missed some of your comments in the beginning and -- but I caught it in John's where he mentioned that you're seeing more transactions.
I think in late January at ALIS [ph] everyone thought it was kind of a desert out there for deals.
What sort of buyer or maybe portfolio -- or I should say seller or maybe portfolio seller has kind of come to market in the last few months.
Is it the brands coming out? And I guess do you find them more I guess call it more willing? Their expectations are coming down on pricing? No expectations -- I think people are true believers in the cycle both the sellers and the buyer.
So I don't see that pricing is coming in.
The debt markets are better than they were 6 months ago.
People have more confidence in their operating results for 2012.
So there's a lot of firming on what people think the revenue or profits are for the hotels which is giving more certainty.
The portfolios there's a lot of private equity firms which bought deals in 2005 '06 '07 during the high-volume years that will come up on their maturity so that's going to be one source.
And there are a number of people with debt maturities coming up that are forcing both on the portfolio and the virtual asset side.
We are still not seeing a huge uptick on one-off deals.
But we have talked about and explored more portfolio deals than one-off deals in the last several months.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then maybe this one is for John.
But is there much color you can give us on the Group business that you've seen thus far in the bookings I should say.
I mean is -- I guess for instance are there some industries or segments that are maybe conspicuously absent in your bookings or have group events been more chicken than steak as they say? I'm just curious.
Any kind color you can give us? We're looking for the steak Jeff.
The -- well I can tell you this the corporate group bookings in room nights are up the most of all of the -- of each of the segments and it's -- they're up 24%.
So that's good news.
I think within the Corporate segment I think we're seeing a little less financial a little more pharma and things like that technology.
I think one area that we expect to see a decline would be government group which doesn't really impact us that much but it's -- it will be quasi-significant for the industry I think.
But in general I think that it's encouraging that corporate room nights are coming back with gusto and that rates are relatively flat right now but I think that begs the potential for higher rates.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a last question it's kind of specific.
But I think last year or late last year out in Vail I think the Vail Resorts got approval from I think it's like the U.S.
Forest Service to use the lands there year round.
I think it required some sort of motion in front of Congress.
And I guess I was curious has there any kind of a push there or coordinated push to have more of a summer season in Vail or do you think that's still years away? Well.
I think the potential though is more in kind of the arts festivals music art et cetera which we've been pushing them to do for years.
They're at a little bit of a disadvantage because Aspen is so strong in that area.
But they have seen an uptick with the Vilar Center in Beavercreek.
And some of the new developments in Lionshead in Vail and I think they're getting some traction on those arts activity in the summertime.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Wengerd of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your comments that you could receive another loan to replace the Allerton loan that's in place right now.
Do you have any update on I guess the process for how a new -- for the size of a new loan or how the size of a new loan would be determined? Sure.
So we have -- we currently have a note that we purchased that had a face value about $69 million almost $70 million in value.
The way the bankruptcy rules work is that they put a disclosure plan in and we as a secure debtor would -- come out with something that had a substantially similar value.
There's some negotiations there are some dispute about how much interest has been paid and was it penalty interest or not.
But I think the proposed note on the last disclosure statement they've put in was about $66 million.
We think that it should be a number that's substantially higher than that but that's what the bankruptcy judge will decide over the next several months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked a little bit about the G8 summit changing locations.
I think you had lost some State Farm business last quarter and I'm wondering if you guys have been able to replace that and if bookings for 2Q Chicago are -- have improved substantially since February? This is John.
Yes the revenue bookings have improved for the second quarter.
They're up about 23%.
Having said that you don't replace $1 million State Farm piece of business just with short-term groups.
And in the first quarter it was interesting we had 2 non-repeating groups that were there in 2011.
So although Chicago was strong year round in 2012 the first quarter we actually had a very tough comp.
So we took the same approach there that we are taking for the G8 timeframe which was to go after packages and Transient business.
And so that impacts food and beverage but it's a good fill in and May is a strong month in Chicago so we're hopeful that we're going to be able to fill that in to some extent.
Research Division</strong> So revenues are up 23% in 2Q like the pace? The pace the group booking pace in second quarter is up 23%.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Didora of Bank of America.
Our next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about potential doing portfolio deals.
Some of your peers have started to access the unsecured market.
Is that something -- for financing is that something you would consider if you were to grow the company through a large portfolio transaction? Enrique this is Sean.
That's something that as we think through the next sort of 3- to 5-year time horizon for DiamondRock that that's clearly an option that we would look at.
We currently really like our capital structure as it stands right now with a -- more than half of our portfolio unencumbered by debt and having no corporate debt other than our line of credit and 13 unencumbered assets -- I'm sorry 12 unencumbered assets.
So we like where we stand right now relative to our size but to the extent that we would grow in size and the unsecured market would be more efficient that's something we would definitely look at in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of -- translate your RevPAR numbers and walk down to your EBITDA like in your earnings numbers.
Can you give me an idea of what that looks for in terms of same-store margin growth how that fits into your guidance numbers? Are you referring Enrique for the second quarter or for the full year? Inc.
Research Division</strong> For the full year.
For the full year we don't give margin guidance.
I can tell you what back half of the year implied RevPAR would be and then you can use your own judgment on where -- how you think that's going to flow.
But the back half midpoint to midpoint will be roughly 6.9% RevPAR for our portfolio.
But we have not given margin guidance for the full year -- or for the quarters.
And our next question comes from the line of Josh Attie of Citi.
Research Division</strong> When you look at what's in your acquisition pipeline and also what demand might be for some of your non-core hotels do you think it's more likely you're a net buyer or a net seller for the remainder of the year excluding what you've already sold? This is Mark Josh.
We're -- we anticipate being a net buyer.
Obviously we've done over $0.25 billion of dispositions year-to-date.
We are sitting on cash.
We think there'll be interesting opportunities.
There may be 1 or 2 hotels that we do bring to market given that we do think it's a good time to transact.
But we plan to be active we still think we're early in the lodging cycle we still think it's a good time to buy.
We're going to continue to try and find high growth opportunities and deploy our capacity.
Research Division</strong> And how do you think about -- how should we think about the right level for the dividend? Is it a percentage of cash flow or is there another metric that you look at and as the earnings recover over the next few years how should we think about what the growth in the dividend might be? Sure.
Every board meeting we have a very active conversation about the dividend and where to set the dividend.
And it's not a strict formula.
Obviously we look at what our taxable income will be in the year need to distribute that.
But we also look at what alternative uses of capital we have and what the competitive landscape looks like among our lodging peers to make sure that we have a competitive dividend.
And then we have to stress-test it to see in the event in a couple of years if we have a downturn what does the dividend look like and is it sustainable? So we evaluate all those in trying to determine what the appropriate dividend is now.
Our dividend is very well covered this year.
It will -- we anticipate it will meet our taxable income but as earnings improve and if they exceed our expectations clearly that's something that at the Board level we continue to evaluate.
Our next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla FBR &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your second quarter RevPAR guidance that you've guided to in terms of 5% to 7% 100 basis points below the full year guidance.
If you could just give us some sense of how you think about the year in terms of RevPAR rates for each quarter.
Sure.
This is Sean.
We didn't give specific RevPAR guidance for the year but you should expect with some of the disruption that we're going to have particularly in Worthington that our third quarter RevPAR will probably not be as strong as the fourth quarter.
So when you think through the balance of our year that's the one outlier and that's really going to be driven by Worthington in the third quarter and the fact that there's going to be disruption from the façade repair.
Our next question comes from line of Wes Golladay of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you guys mentioned moderating travel agent fees.
Is there any special -- anything special driving this? Is it change in distribution at all or...
This is John.
I don't think there is a big change in distribution I just think we've had several quarters of outsized increases and I think the comps are getting easier.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So going forward it's something that you believe will moderate for the balance of the year? We'd hope so.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And going back to your Group business how much of this was put on during the downturn say the 2009 2010 period for the balance of 2012? Not much except Boston Chicago and Minneapolis have some multi-year advanced bookings.
I can't give you an exact percentage but it's probably in the 20% to 25% range if that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And last one going back to your RevPAR guidance home much do you think I guess would the mix between occupancy gains and ADR growth be for the year? This is Sean.
For the full year we're expecting the bulk of our RevPAR is going to be ADR.
We expect maybe 1% to 1.5% is going to be occupancy with the balance being late driven.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose of KBR (sic) [KBW].
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you what the timing is on the opening of the Hilton Garden Times Square? And then also I think there's still a big NATO Meeting in Chicago I'm just wondering if you expect any disruption from that or is that just kind of smaller in scope or in terms of protests or whatever expected around that? Yes this is Mark Smedes.
Your first question the construction is underway on 42nd Street.
The current timeline I believe is another 22 24 months.
It could come inside that it ought to be weather dependent and a couple other things.
But we're anticipating first second quarter of 2014 at this point.
As to the Chicago question the NATO was scheduled on the heels of the G8 Summit.
It traditionally has been a less disruptive event there traditionally aren't protesters in anywhere close to what they have for the G8.
Although I know some people are quoted -- some of the traditional protesters saying they have already booked they're coming to Chicago anyway.
Their tickets.
But we're not anticipating that that will have significant disruption to our properties in the city.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then I'm just wondering is there any color you can give or trends that you cite for 2013 on the group pace so far? This is John.
The group pace in 2013 is relatively flat.
It's not a meaningful number at this point.
It's improving.
It was done actually by 3.5% last quarter.
It's down a little bit now but I think it's -- it becomes meaningful in the third and fourth quarter as it gets closer so we're not concerned at this point.
Our final question comes from the line of Dan Donlan of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question Sean on the corporate G&amp;A x acquisition costs can you give us any type of guidance there on what to expect for the full year? Sure.
You should expect roughly $20 million for the full year which will be about $1.7 million -- sorry $1.5 million less than 2011.
And really the driver of that is going to be the fact that we recorded the LAX tip settlement last year through corporate G&amp;A which was $1.7 million and then there is some increases in just other overhead which will net that down to $1.4 million $1.5 million for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on kind of these portfolio deals that you guys are talking about.
Could you maybe give us size potential of these deals and/or -- and also is it limited service select full-service a mix of both? Or any type of color there would be appreciated.
This is Mark.
I don't want to over state it.
We are a full-service company so portfolios we're interested in are full-service hotels generally.
The portfolios we come through you're always trying to generate off-market deals so we're looking at the portfolios would be -- go through the various people that hone [ph] real estate and to try to begin those conversations.
So the size is really amorphous since people hold different amounts of hotels and the ultimate portfolio may change depending on what they want to do.
But there's a lot of real estate out there.
We think that it's a good financing environment and we think it's an interesting time to be active in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as external growth and maybe some markets versus others is there any particular market that you want to focus on and maybe you might get more aggressive with than others? What we said on the last call we're still interested there -- we obviously like the markets the we're in so we'd look into New York's and Chicago's Boston.
They're all good markets and we think that there's great long-term growth potential.
We've also expressed that we're interested in San Diego Miami Seattle West L.A.
San Francisco would all be growth markets that we're interested in growing.
We try to be a little bit broader and look at each opportunity in the major markets as they present themselves and underwrite each deal individually but certainly those market representations would be advantageous for DiamondRock.
With no further questions I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Larry.
To everyone on this call we would just like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock and we look forward to updating you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 DiamondRock Hospitality Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder the conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference to Mr.
Mark Brugger Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed.
Thanks Jasmine.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by John Williams our President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under Federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
As you know we have been very busy since our last earnings call.
We have acquired a portfolio of 4 high-quality city center hotels for $0.5 billion issued $200 million of stock and benefited from a $75-million strategic investment from Blackstone.
These efforts are the latest examples of us -- of executing our strategy of improving portfolio quality owning urban assets in target markets increasing brand and operator diversity and actively recycling capital.
Today we own a terrific portfolio of 27 hotels concentrated in strong gateway markets such as New York City Chicago and Boston.
Moreover we maintain one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry and the company continues to be one of the most active players in the space having completed over $750 million in deals year to date.
The company is well positioned for growth as our portfolio continues to benefit from the ongoing U.S.
lodging recovery and the implementation of our best practice asset management initiatives.
Furthermore with our solid balance sheet we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunistic acquisitions while selectively recycling capital through the disposition of non-core assets.
I'd like to now spend a couple of minutes discussing the impact of the recent Blackstone portfolio acquisition.
As part of our capital recycling strategy we created investment capacity through the disposition of 3 non-core suburban hotels earlier this year and redeployed that capital into 4 higher growth hotels in more attractive markets.
Consider these 6 consolidated facts about the transaction: One almost 90% of the entire portfolio's EBIT comes from hotels in city center locations of Boston Washington D.C.
and San Diego; Two these hotels increased our overall portfolio RevPAR and profit margins; Three each of the hotels is owned in fee simple; Four the hotels are unencumbered by brand management thereby increasing our ability to influence operations and increase potential exit value; Five we have uncovered numerous asset management opportunities to create outsized growth; and six we are making capital investment as an upside opportunity to reposition each hotel in order to gain market share over the next several years.
I would also note that as part of acquisition Blackstone made a significant strategic investment in the company.
We are pleased to welcome Blackstone as a shareholder and look forward to exploring opportunities for us to partner with them going forward.
Now let's turn to the second quarter results.
Our portfolio's operating performance were strong and consistent with our expectation.
We achieved second quarter RevPAR growth of 6.5% with the majority of our hotels gaining market share during the quarter.
The company's second quarter adjusted EBITDA improved 17% from 2011.
Including Frenchman's Reef our hotel's debt-to-EBITDA margins expanded 90 basis points.
Even more impressively the year-to-date performance of our portfolio reflects RevPAR growth of 7.6% hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 115 basis points and improved market share.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We funded only 25% of the Blackstone portfolio acquisition with debt a move consistent with our strategy of maintaining a low levered balance sheet.
We expect to end 2012 with a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of just 4.5x.
Remarkably 16 of our 27 hotels are unencumbered by debt.
To give you an idea of how much borrowing power that provides the company our cost basis in those 16 unencumbered hotels is $1.7 billion.
We feel very good about the balance sheet and fundamentally believe that conservative leverage is crucial for a lodging REIT to create exceptional shareholder value over the cycle.
This conservative leverage strategy along with strong operating results allows DiamondRock to pay well covered and competitive dividend yield of over 3%.
I would like to add that being an income company is another core tenant in our strategy to deliver outstanding shareholder returns.
Now turning to guidance.
Lodging fundamentals continue to show strength and are generally meeting our high expectations.
The balance of the year group booking pace remains strong up 7.8% compared to the same time in 2011.
Moreover we expect to end the year in a stronger position than last year and anticipate achieving success during the 2013 corporate rate negotiations which will begin in a few months.
Our updated guidance incorporates our recent portfolio acquisition equity offering and share issuance to Blackstone as well as the most recent hotel operating forecast for our current portfolio of 27 hotels.
Based on these factors our revised full year 2012 guidance is as follows: RevPAR growth of 5.5% to 7.5% adjusted EBITDA of $193 million to $201 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.76 to $0.80.
The company's third quarter guidance is as follows: RevPAR growth of 3% to 4% adjusted EBITDA of $44.5 million to $48.5 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.18 to $0.19.
As discussed in the press release we expect more moderate growth in the third quarter than we experienced in the second followed by strong growth during the fourth quarter.
The company's third quarter will be impacted by a few specific items.
First the façade project at the Worthington Renaissance is expected to create $2 million of disruption during the third quarter.
This disruption is expected to negatively impact the company's third quarter RevPAR growth by about 60 basis points.
Second the citywide group meeting calendar in Chicago is weighted toward the second and fourth quarters resulting in third quarter group booking pace at the Chicago Marriott being down approximately 6%.
Our Chicago hotels will negatively impact our third quarter RevPAR growth by about 70 basis points.
And third as discussed earlier this year the Hilton Minneapolis 2012 RevPAR growth is challenged by a difficult convention calendar comp particularly in the third quarter.
The Minneapolis Hilton will negatively impact our third quarter RevPAR growth by about 50 basis points.
The company expects strong RevPAR growth during the fourth quarter as a result of several catalysts.
Our fourth quarter will benefit substantially from favorable timing of citywide meeting from Chicago as evidenced by the fourth quarter group booking pace for the Chicago Conrad and Chicago Marriott up 46% and 14% respectively.
Moreover our fourth quarter will benefit from the strong convention activity at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center with our Westin Boston fourth quarter group booking pace up almost 11%.
We also expect the LAX Marriott to outperform during the fourth quarter.
The group booking pace at this hotel is up at over 50%.
Additionally we expect strong fourth quarter performance for our well-located hotels in New York City.
I'll now turn the call over to John to review our results in further detail and discuss our recent acquisitions.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Second quarter results showed continuation of positive demand trends with RevPAR up 6.5% led by ADR -- an ADR increase of 4.6%.
We saw a good demand growth in the quarter as revenue gains in group up over 10.5% and leisure up 10% accounted for 85% of the revenue gain.
The balance of the revenue gain was a result of some well-priced contact business we put into the Lexington Hotel in New York.
Business transient rate was up over 5% in the quarter with slightly lower room nights as demand from other segments displaced some BT rooms.
We continue to focus on revenue management strategies as a means of maximizing the total revenue potential of our hotels.
We encourage our operators to take calculated risk to maximize rate.
We've seen great successes at several of our hotels.
We implemented the strategy this year at the Conrad in Chicago of not renewing lower-rated special corporate accounts in anticipation of rate potential from the strong convention calendar and resulting compression in the city which contributed to the BT results.
The revenue management strategy turned about to be too aggressive in Q2 because the city experienced less group pickup than expected.
But we anticipate stronger rates at the Conrad for the balance of the year and believe our strategy will pay off.
The Conrad's new ballroom will open August 2 and group pace at the Conrad as Mark mentioned is up 46% in the fourth quarter.
Food and beverage revenues were up almost 11% in the quarter with increases in banquet sales related to higher group volume.
Food and beverage margins would have been even better but were held back by higher cover counts and lower average check in one large convention hotel and higher wages and benefits due to higher volumes.
Group pace for the balance of the year including the recent acquisitions remains robust up 7.8%.
The profit flow-through for the quarter resulted in a 90 basis points of EBITDA margin expansion.
Our asset management group remains very focused on getting every incremental dollar of revenue to the bottom line.
We were encouraged by productivity gains.
Overall productivity for the portfolio was good with man hours per occupied room down 4.6% and sales per man hour up 13.1% for the quarter.
Rooms margins were impacted by the cost of employee benefits and travel agent commissions which were up 10.8% and 21% respectively this quarter.
Support costs in the quarter were well controlled and were up 4.2%.
Sales and marketing and G&amp;A costs were higher partially from increased occupancy up 7% and 6.2% respectively.
These costs were partially offset by modest increases in R&amp;M and utilities which were lower by 3.6% reflecting lower rates the $4 million we've invested in energy-saving initiatives across the portfolio and energy contracts we've negotiated in the past year.
I'd like to spend some time addressing our current significant capital projects.
As we have discussed we're in the final planning stages for a $32-million renovation at the Lexington Hotel.
The renovation will reposition the hotel as an Autograph Collection by Marriott and will touch every guest experience at the hotel.
Rooms bathrooms the hotel lobby will be completely reinvented.
This project will begin in late December and be completed in mid-2013.
The project will be phased to minimize disruption.
The Manhattan Courtyards are also in the final design for a guestroom renovation in the first half of 2013.
The lobby of the Fifth Avenue Courtyard was completed in the first quarter of this year and the lobby of the Third Avenue Courtyard is being redesigned and will enable us to move the fitness center off of the rooms floor to the lobby and gain an additional 4 keys.
In June we began the renovation of the Worthington Renaissance façade.
The project will be phased over 2 years in order to minimize disruption.
We're also finalizing a lease for the restaurant lobby lounge and room service at the hotel which will reconfigure a portion of the lobby and dramatically improve food and beverage margins as well as guest satisfaction.
Construction has begun on the 42nd Street Hilton Garden Inn and it's scheduled for completion in mid-2014.
It is 286-room hotels at 42nd and Broadway the heart of Times Square.
The Conrad ballroom addition will be opened in a week and the booking pace is a testament to the market demand for the space.
Turning to our recent acquisition of the high-quality Blackstone portfolio.
We acquired 4 hotels from Blackstone for $495 million representing a discount for replacement cost at $339 000 a key.
The acquisition expanded our portfolio into 3 strategic target markets: Boston Washington D.C.
and San Diego.
It expanded our strategic relationship with Hilton and Starwood and increased our third-party management exposure.
The acquired hotels will improve portfolio RevPAR by $2 and margins by 140 basis points.
We see margin improvement opportunities at the hotels because revenue potential at these hotels come from rate gains as we enhance revenue strategies and put capitals into the hotels to capture higher-rated business.
Let me give you a little more background at the -- on the upside opportunities.
Blackstone reacquired control of this portfolio in December of 2010 from Columbia Sussex.
Columbia Sussex had acquired renovated rebranded and assumed management of the hotels in 2006.
The Columbia Sussex brand and management strategy relied almost exclusively on the brands for marketing and focused on extremely tight and unsustainable cost controls.
Let me just say that in our experience this is not a recipe for maximizing value.
When Blackstone converted the hotels to third-party management in 2011 Interstate and LXR began the process of reinstituting marketing and more appropriate staffing levels into the hotel an effort which has just started to bear fruit and should accelerate going forward.
Now that we own the hotels we have the ability for our asset management team to implement our best practices initiative that we either not fully implemented or not yet initiated at all at the hotels.
Areas of opportunities at all 4 hotels relate to product repositioning revenue management marketing parking food and beverage profit maximization and labor forecasting.
We consider this portfolio acquisition central to our strategy of using smart capital recycling to enhance DiamondRock's portfolio through the disposition of lower quality slower growth assets and redeploying the capital into assets such as these concentrating in high growth gateway urban markets with numerous upside opportunities.
The Hilton Boston Downtown is a AAA 4-diamond hotel with 362 keys including 66 suites and 10 000 square feet of functional meeting space.
It's Boston Financial District location is 1 block from the waterfront and Faneuil Hall and 10 minutes from Logan Airport.
The hotel is a 1920s era Art Deco building one of Boston's first high-rise office buildings.
The building was converted to a hotel and fully renovated in 1999.
All food and beverage operations are leased making the operation essentially rooms only resulting in very high GOP and EBITDA margins supplemented by the significant lease income.
Lease income from existing tenants provide $1 million in stable annual NOI.
We see several opportunities for asset management to significantly improve revenue and profitability at the Hilton.
We intend to lease 4 000 square feet of prime street access retail space currently vacant.
We are evaluating proposals for management companies who would like to assume management of the hotel.
We'll develop a revenue management strategy tailored to Boston demand patterns drawing on our experience at the Westin Waterfront.
We'll integrate the marketing efforts of Hilton's citywide marketing team and Boston Convention Center Authority into the hotel's marketing plan.
We will divide some of the 66 suites to gain additional keys and longer-term we'll investigate the feasibility of relocating Northeastern's lease space to add up to 50 rooms and/or additional meeting space.
And we will design and implement a hotel renovation in order to improve RevPAR penetration.
The Westin D.C.
City Center has 406 rooms and 13 000 square feet of meeting space.
The hotel's 14th and M Street location is central to the Washington CBD office concentration and 5 blocks from the D.C.
Convention Center and The White House.
Asset management initiatives here will include as in Boston we will develop a marketing plan and revenue management strategy to improve RevPAR penetration and close the unjustified $50 RevPAR gap with the Westin West End.
We'll design and implement a hotel renovation plan including a -- including reconfiguring the lobby and food and beverage space to enhance functionality and profitability and we'll renegotiate a higher-yielding profit parking contract and outsource laundry operations.
The Hilton Burlington is the 258-room hotel with 16 000 square feet of indoor and outdoor meeting space which benefits from its CBD location with views of Lake Champlain and the Adirondack Mountains and with convenient access to downtown shops and restaurants.
The Hilton is the only full-service hotel in the Burlington CBD which is the center of a vibrant and growing regional commercial hub.
We've identified asset management opportunities at Burlington as well.
We will rejuvenate the marketing team and redirect marketing strategy to penetrate local transient and group accounts which are not currently solicited.
We will develop relationships with the University of Vermont a major local demand generator who are often paid attention to by the hotel marketing staff.
We will refresh the guestroom Sofcoast package to regain lost RevPAR index and develop seasonal amenity packages to further penetrate in seasonally for demand.
We will reclaim existing office space to add water view meeting rooms.
And we'll renegotiate the parking agreement and significantly increase profit.
Overall this is a very profitable hotel that generates over $18 000 per key in EBITDA and has continued growth potential.
Finally the Westin San Diego is a 436-room hotel with 22 000 square feet of meeting space.
This iconic mixed use building opened in 1991 and is a landmark in the San Diego skyline.
Its CBD location on Broadway is approximate to downtown demand generators and within walking distance to San Diego's Convention Center and Gaslamp District.
A new federal courthouse and expanded county courthouse surround the hotel.
We've identified several asset management initiatives at the Westin.
The hotel will also benefit from development of a rational pricing strategy and better coordination with Starwood citywide marketing team.
We will improve the hotel's interaction and cooperation with the San Diego Convention Center sales force.
We'll develop legal research and mock trial meeting space in the hotel to capture demand from the federal and county courthouses.
This is a significant new revenue opportunity.
We will activate the lobby area and reconfigure food and beverage space to drive revenue and profitability.
And we'll lease the street-facing food and beverage outlet to increase profitability.
And we will design and execute a rooms renovation to further improve RevPAR penetration.
So the Blackstone acquisition is the execution of our strategy to redeploy capital from lower growth secondary markets to gateway urban core markets and into assets that can benefit from aggressive asset management.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks John.
Overall we remain bullish on the growth potential for our portfolio and believe that DiamondRock remains an outstanding investment for our shareholders.
To that point we'd like to leave you with 3 main takeaways today.
The first takeaway is that our portfolio has tremendous growth potential.
Just look at our legacy portfolio of 23 hotels.
These hotels possess a great deal of upside potential and profit margins and in profit.
It's important to observe that our portfolio has plenty of room to run as it is nowhere near prior peak.
In fact the profit margin of our legacy hotel portfolio would need to expand approximately 500 basis points from last year just to hit prior peak profit margins.
In terms of profit our legacy portfolio needs to increase $80 million from last year just to reach prior peak.
We regard these gaps as a big opportunity.
The second takeaway is that we have purposefully maintained a conservative balance sheet and have structured our investments in such a way as to reduce risks to enterprise by creating maximum flexibility with more than half the portfolio unencumbered with a myriad of financing options.
For a lodging REIT balance sheet management is arguably the #1 driver of value to shareholders.
The final takeaway relates to our platform.
Simply put we have a great team.
Our asset management team continues to employ best practices and investigate opportunities to cut costs and increase profit margins at our hotels.
Our finance group has done a great job putting together a spectacular balance sheet and continually lowering our cost of capital and our team overall has successfully executed more than $750 million in acquisitions and dispositions this year alone.
In conclusion our team remains committed to delivering shareholder value through a focused and well-executed strategy.
With that we would now like to open up the call for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us what the implied RevPAR guidance is for the fourth quarter? Sure Josh.
This is Sean.
The implied fourth quarter is between 5% and 10% depending on what end of the range we have for the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And what -- when you look at the high end of that range what gives you the confidence that you can hit the high end? When I look at the third quarter it seems like even if you add back the 180 basis points you outlined that would the portfolio at 5% to 6% which still seems a little bit light given that your quarter includes the end of June which is very strong.
So the 5% to 6% seems like it's below where the industry is trending.
Is there anything else that's weighing on the portfolio in the third quarter that you expect to reverse that would help you go from 5% to 6% to closer to 10%? Yes.
Well Josh this is John.
In the third quarter one of the primary drivers is the group pace which is about 3.4% against almost 12% in the fourth quarter.
And that's driven by basically all of the major convention hotels Boston Chicago Salt Lake and Minneapolis all have soft convention calendars in the third quarter.
However they have very strong convention calendars in the fourth quarter.
As an example Boston's up almost 11% Chicago Downtown 14%; Frenchman's Reef 34% Salt Lake City at 6% and Minneapolis is up 2%.
So that's a major driver of the revenue forecast.
Research Division</strong> How much of the business for the fourth quarter today is locked in or booked? I can't give you that number Josh off the top of my head.
Let us get that for you.
Research Division</strong> Roughly is it less than 50%? Is it less than 30%? Well it's -- if you look at our group business in the fourth quarter it's probably going to be about 35% and probably 90% of that is booked.
And then our transient booked we just cross particularly in resorts that are already on the books but I just don't know that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And John you outlined qualitatively what some of the opportunities are at the assets that you just bought.
Can you tell us financially what you think the upside there? Is there an EBITDA number that you think you can get in excess of market growth related to all the things that you spoke about? Josh it varies by hotel obviously.
There are tremendous opportunities in a couple of the hotels.
There are good opportunities in the others.
I couldn't quantify it for you.
I mean I can tell you that the BX portfolio this year and the third and fourth quarter are going to be up in RevPAR 8% and 10% roughly.
And then the profit margins as you know are already pretty strong and we see some continued improvement opportunity there.
In terms of quantifying the EBITDA between now and what 2 years from now is that what you're driving at? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just when you underwrote this how did you think about what the financial upside was or how the value of the assets were going to increase? Is it that you're going to get EBITDA growth? It sounds like you think you're going to get EBITDA growth in excess of the market growth based on all the things you outlined and I just wanted to know if there was -- if you quantify what that EBITDA opportunity was.
Josh this is Mark.
On our underwriting we get to -- on a 5-year hold we get to about double-digit unlevered IRR.
When we look at the growth rate and [ph] generalize for the portfolio but the CAGR versus kind of the expectation for the market was about 2% better per annum in the market and that has to do with both implementation of the best practices but also the capital that we're going to put in.
We think will have a lot more market penetration from that strategy.
Research Division</strong> And what did you assume for the exit valuation compared to what you bought at? Our exit value it was about 100 basis points above our acquisition price.
Josh it varied by property obviously but 100 basis points overall.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One on the portfolio and just general acquisitions in general.
As you get further into the cycle how do you change your assumptions? Obviously 5 years from now is different from 5 years 1 2 or 3 years ago so just how do you change your underwriting assumptions as you go through a cycle? And then second question just on expense growth.
Just looking on the pro forma expense growth it's a little bit higher than I saw some from incentive management fees 8% or so in the quarter just overall.
What are you expecting just expense growth as we go throughout the rest of the year? And maybe just a more general comment there would be great.
Okay.
I'll take the first question on underwriting.
Basically we use third-party market estimates for growth and then we apply either a discount or a premium based on work that we're going to do at the hotel or outsized potential or issues that we see at each hotel individually.
And then on a flow-through basis we use sort of standard flow-through measures and that results in the NOI that we use to underwrite the hotels.
That changes as the -- obviously as the cycle progresses.
It changes both third party's perspective of market potential growth and our own perspective of hotel -- individual hotel growth potential against the market.
So hopefully we're smart enough to spot within the cycle coming supply or a slowdown in growth.
On the expense question I guess I would say that we expect labor costs to go up at -- in the 4% range 4% to 5% range this year although they were a little higher in the second quarter because of some comparability issues.
And we expect the various other costs to go up at inflation or with volume depending on the category.
But generally we are still shooting for roughly 55% flow-through from increased revenue mix between rooms and food and beverage.
And Eli this is Sean.
There's a couple expense items that are probably worth talking about specifically.
You mentioned IMF for the quarter up 8%.
That's really driven by Chicago which makes up 90% 95% of our total incentive management fees both for the quarter as well as for the year.
Our Chicago Marriott had a very strong quarter so the incentive management fees are up accordingly for that hotel.
The other item that should be worth mentioning is property taxes for our portfolio are up about $5 million year-over-year and that's really driven by Chicago as well as Boston and to a lesser extent Worthington.
Chicago has their triannual reassessment for 2012 which we're assuming roughly a 40% increase in the assessment.
The reason why we think it's going to be so significant is because the last reassessment was 2009 which was a very difficult year -- was a very difficult year for the industry.
So we're assuming that there's going to be significant increases in Chicago that are going to hit this year.
Boston is coming off a PILOT program which is going to be about $1 million of increased property taxes that hit this year.
And then Worthington had a favorable property tax appeal win last year which had a positive impact of about $1 million on our property taxes.
And your next question comes from the line of Ian Weissman with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a couple of or specifics on your New York City portfolio which came in below our expectations.
Are you seeing any fallout yet from I guess troubles in Europe given your exposure in New York? Yes.
This is John.
I'll take that.
The New York market in general in the second quarter portfolio went up about 3.6% in RevPAR and it lost about 90 basis points in margin for the second quarter.
And there's a degree of that at the Lexington and certainly from European travel but I don't think it's been so measurable that it's been highlighted but inevitably that both the Olympics and the issues with the European economies are inevitably going to impact the visitation.
Overall though I think there were portions of the second quarter that were a little bit weaker than anticipated but then there are also portions of the second quarter that were pretty strong.
And when it comes to transient business it's very difficult to pinpoint and forecast those levels.
So we still feel good about the city.
We feel good about our location.
We're in locations within the city and we think the supply continues to be absorbed but we do anticipate that there could be some hiccups as we go through the year.
Research Division</strong> So are you modeling a deceleration from the 3 6 or so that you did in New York in the second quarter in the balance of the year? No we're not.
Research Division</strong> You're not.
Okay.
And just a housekeeping issue your closing cost I guess associated with the Blackstone deal you modeled for the third quarter of about $8 million.
That's considerably higher than what we expected.
What's in that $8 million number? A lot of that is driven by transfer taxes particularly Washington D.C.
has a very expensive transfer tax when you buy an asset there.
And then there's also -- there's legal costs that are per portfolio transaction.
It's just more expensive to get done than a single-asset acquisition.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John I was curious how do you think about the EBITDA growth of those 4 assets versus your own core portfolio rather than just the market.
And I guess would that mirror your outlook or the asset value growth of that portfolio as well? Yes Jeff it definitely would.
We see outsized growth in certainly 3 of the 4 hotels in terms of RevPAR.
We also see margin improvement opportunities because frankly the hotels have added the cost back since Blackstone took them over in 2011 and they're just beginning to reap the rewards of enhanced marketing.
We have some more marketing staff to put into the hotel and we have significant renovations to put into it to put in 2 particularly 2 of the hotels.
But we see outsized RevPAR growth potential food and beverage margin potential.
We see a lot of potential both in revenue and profit growth outsized to our portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's fair.
I guess my question and maybe these are apples and oranges to deduce this but if the core portfolio -- of the portfolio you just bought you think is going to outstrip the market and you think it's going to outstrip your own core portfolio does that sort of imply that a good number of the assets you already own in your existing portfolio are going to have sort of market-average-type performance? Does going to be -- lead you guys to thinking you might be selling more assets in the future? Or am I sort of stretching too far on that? I think that's a little bit of a stretch Jeff.
I think what we're saying to you is that there are unusual opportunities in the Blackstone portfolio just because of the way they were run in the past and capital that we see can be very profitably put into the hotels.
I think from our existing portfolio standpoint we're consciously repositioning the portfolio as you know and as we've said several times into the higher growth core urban market.
And that's part of what this strategy -- this acquisition did.
But that's an overall strategy for the company.
So yes there are some other hotels that we'll move within the next couple of years.
Then we'll follow that same strategy and hopefully the acquisitions will be available in the core markets and target markets we're looking for.
And all that strategy is 100% geared towards increasing overall growth and profitability of the entire portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> And specific to Westin San Diego can you talk about I guess how RevPAR index compares there maybe versus the Westin Gaslamp and perhaps the W because they're both a few blocks away? I wasn't sure if you might share that with us.
Yes they -- it has historically trailed both of those hotels and as you know the Gaslamp just had a significant renovation so until we do our renovation it will be a little bit of a product disadvantage.
I would say that the potential for the -- for our hotel has a lot to do with the completion of the federal courthouse.
The more effective marketing to the legal concentration it's already there and will grow dramatically which I think we outlined as some plans that we have for that.
And then increasing penetration with the San Diego Convention Center Authority and sales force is a major effort.
And finally this hotel has been virtually left out of the citywide marketing efforts of Starwood because they haven't marketed themselves to the team which is a gross error in our opinion.
So we think we'll gain share.
I think that relative to the W and the Gaslamp we haven't looked specifically with those because we don't know their shares but relative to the comp set we believe we'll gain significant share.
LLC Research Division</strong> And it's more of a sort of call it late 2013 event if you will not nearer than that I would presume.
Yes that's certainly fair.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just the last question is just more on the acquisition market.
It's been hearing that there's more deals in the marketplace in the second half of the year than there had been in the first.
I don't know if you agree with that but everyone asks about cap rates.
I was curious if you have a sense of what the trend has been in the -- like the unlevered IRRs that you guys underwrite on deals over the last few quarters have you seen them coming down? How do you think about that? Yes jeff this is Mark.
We've -- I would say on the general volume of deals we're seeing it's slightly up from what it was the first half of the year one of the reasons we're so excited to do the off market transaction with Blackstone.
But I'd tell you we missed out on a deal very recently because the pricing was well inside of what we were willing to pay.
So there is still a lot of appetite for product -- for this core market product that comes out there and the bidding's fairly intense and -- so we've seen -- well at least on this one recent deal we saw cap rates come lower than they were earlier in the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Malkin with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Wes Golladay with Neil.
Quick question on the travel commissions.
I was under the impression they we're beginning to moderate in the first quarter.
Looks like they're ticking higher.
Was this due to mix? Or is this going to be higher going forward? This is John.
It was considerably higher than the first quarter.
It came as a little bit of a surprise and it was very concentrated in group and very concentrated in 5 top producing group hotels.
So we're looking into each one of those situations as to whether or not there's an opportunity to kind of refocus the way these groups are being booked.
But in general the trend is negative because a lot of these companies and associations have taken the meeting planner out of their organization so they contract it out and the hotel has to pay the fee for it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So probably a little bit less impactful third quarter and maybe another uptick in commissions in the fourth.
Would that be a fair way to look at it? That's probably fair because the third quarter group volume is lower and the fourth quarter is much higher.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your recent deal you guys put a lot of equity 75%.
Would that be how you look at it going forward just to get to the lower leverage that you guys cited earlier? Or is it target capital structure I guess for new deals? I'll take that one.
This is Mark.
Wes our strategy is to stay low leveraged overall.
So right now we'll end the year about 4.5x debt-to-EBITDA with very low corporate debt.
That feels pretty comfortable.
That's on its way to going sub-4 during the cycle and so it will depend on each deal and the size of the deals.
These individual hotels can range from a small deal of $45 million to $350 million.
So often the size of the individual deal will influence how we finance it and what we want to do.
But certainly we remain firm in our conviction that low leverage is the way to go so we will continue to run our company with that strategy.
The other point worth noting -- this is Sean -- on the funding of the Blackstone acquisition is that we had about $100 million of capacity on our balance sheet that was created by the disposition of 3 hotels to Inland.
So part of the 75% of the equity fund with equity was the $100 million of that low grade [ph] of cash from the Inland disposition.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Marks with JPMC Securities (sic) [JMP Securities].
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about next year's convention calendars.
In some key markets you had some good dialogue on third and fourth quarter this year.
Yes.
Will this is John.
I can take you through a few of them.
I mean in San Diego they have a number of conventions are up like 10%.
Room nights are roughly flat.
Chicago they're up -- or excuse me they're down in total number of conventions by about 8%.
About half of that in rooms.
Minneapolis is up 4% in conventions down a little bit in rooms; and Boston is down in 2013.
And so as a result -- and Salt Lake City excuse me is up in 2013.
Denver is also up in 2013.
So I guess from our perspective where we see a softer citywide we have to work that much harder at in-house groups.
And that's why at the Boston Westin for example we added that meeting space a couple of years ago because when you have this kind of situation where the citywides are down you have to be able to defend yourself with in-house groups and that's the focus at each of the hotels where the citywide base was not as good.
The good news is we can see it coming.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the Blackstone deal what is now -- it probably hasn't changed but is group as a percentage of total? Blackstone group as a percentage of total is lower than our portfolio so it'll bring it down just a little bit.
It's about 25% group.
Our portfolio is closer to 33%.
So it'll reduce a little bit.
And your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Company.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few questions here.
First with regards to your full year outlook you mentioned that the Blackstone portfolio is going to be up 8% in 3Q and 10% in 4Q.
Can you just give us some color on what your guidance really implies for your legacy portfolio and what trends you've seen from last quarter to this quarter that I guess it would seem like this has caused you to pull back on your legacy portfolio guidance ad whether that's more onetime in nature or more trending in general? I think the main issue in terms of the full year guidance is the third quarter.
We tried very hard in the first half of the year to fill some of the holes in the third quarter and were not successful in some cases.
So the third quarter is a little bit of a slowdown from what we had originally anticipated.
The fourth quarter however is stronger than we had anticipated.
So it's on balance it's a fairly minor adjustment.
Does that answer your question? Right.
If we look at year-to-date where we came in Q2 it's met our expectations and that our forecasts quite frankly in the middle of the range for the second quarter.
We updated the full year guidance to reflect coming in the middle there.
So if we didn't update the guidance I think that the implied balance of the year would have been unrealistic so we want to build the Q2 actuals the middle of our guidance into the full year range so if you just do the math that requires some adjustments and where we've set full year numbers.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as I think about EBITDA maybe you'd give us some color on the seasonality of the Blackstone portfolio I guess.
But when you issued you press release about the acquisition you indicated around where you were anticipating full year EBITDA that portfolio to come out -- are we assuming that that $20 million of your full year guidance now incorporates Blackstone? Does that sound about accurate? Yes Ryan this is Sean.
The roll forward or EBITDA guidance as well as FFO guidance incorporates about $16 million of back half for the year EBITDA and FFO for the Blackstone portfolio which is essentially the change in our guidance.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
I think that's what I was getting at.
Wonderful.
That's helpful.
The second thing I wanted to talk was can you give us some color maybe additional color I guess on property margins.
Looks like excluding Frenchman's Reef your legacy portfolio basically had flat margins on 6% RevPAR growth.
Is that kind of what we have to see going forward in the current environment and we need 5% 6% RevPAR growth just to keep margins flat? Or were there anomalous good points that we should factor in going forward? I think the answer to your question is no I don't think you need to factor in we need 6% RevPAR to achieve flat margins.
I think this quarter there were some unique things like -- one of them which was labor and benefits and part of that problem was some of the positions that were filled in the second half of last year are showing up in terms of a comp issue in the second quarter.
Then labor and benefits were up just over 6 -- I'm sorry wages and -- salaries and wages was up just over 6% in the second quarter.
Benefits were up 10%.
So that is much higher than we anticipate for the year which is 4% to 5% total for wages and benefits.
So I think we had some comparability issues in this quarter.
We've gone back and looked at headcount and that seems to be under control from 1 quarter to the next but compared to last year it's slightly higher.
And then finally if you look at the productivity numbers we gave you man hours per occupied room and sales per man hour.
Those are still positive so those are FTEs at the hotels.
So the focus for us is on salaries.
And then Ryan the last point is on the property taxes I mentioned earlier impact our margin growth by 30 basis points.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But unfortunately -- I guess we can all be hopeful that property tax increases will moderate at some point but given the state of a lot of the municipalities it doesn't seem like we're seeing an end in sight.
That's why I was getting to that 6% growth number.
But all that information was very helpful.
And then a couple last quick questions.
You mentioned earlier and maybe I missed it but on group pace is up 7.8%.
Is that inclusive of Frenchman Reef or exclusive of Frenchman's Reef? That includes Frenchman's Reef.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> What is outside -- excluding Frenchman's Reef? I know its a number you've given in the past.
It's a little over -- it's over 6%.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much of that is occupancies versus rate? Rooms is about 2% and ADR Is about 4.5%.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last quick housekeeping question.
Marriott next year obviously is going to a calendar quarter as they've announced.
Should we expect you guys will follow suit as a result? Yes.
Ryan we're -- we will follow suit next year.
It's really -- it's not going to affect our fiscal year which is already on a calendar year but it will impact the comparability of the quarters next year and we'll be able to provide -- we will restate prior quarters and we'll provide the operating statistics on an apples-to-apples basis when we report next year.
Your next question comes from the line of William Crow with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Three very quick topics here for you.
First of all the group commission increase that you referenced that hurt second quarter is that any set of indictment to Marriott's Sales Force One or whatever you call it the realignment they did last year? This is John.
No not in any way I don't think.
It's really a function of in the downturn which was obviously so severe.
A lot of companies and associations just eliminated their in-house meeting planning function outsourced it.
And unfortunately hotels are the -- suffered the fees associated with that.
And it's interesting as you go the travel agent commissions they're actually lower for individual travel but so much higher for group travel which is 100% well almost 100% focused on the big group hotels within our portfolio.
So unfortunately that's a phenomenon that we probably have to live with going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second topic is Washington D.C.
labor union negotiations if you can give us any update and I don't know whether the Westin that you just acquired from Blackstone is a union hotel or not.
Yes.
We're nonunion at the Westin so we're not involved in the citywide negotiation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What are you -- are you hearing anything about that? I haven't heard anything specific about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final topic is the government per diem topic and obviously that's been a hot topic the last few weeks.
Any thoughts there? Have you built anything into your assumptions for Washington D.C.
or San Diego a couple of markets that could be particularly hard to hit as you think about the growth opportunities? Right.
We've built anything in because no one knows what it's going to -- what the outcomes going to be.
We're pretty sure it's going to be lower but I think in some of the key markets I think they're trying to find ways to keep their travelers and their contractors in decent hotels as opposed to having go out to the suburbs and stay in Best Western.
So we anticipate that some of the negotiations are going to take a little different format.
We don't know what the overall format is going to be but the rumor is they're going to drop up their upscale from the calculation.
That doesn't really make sense.
The rumor is in Washington they're going to segregate CBD hotels and suburban hotels.
That's going to be awful tough on suburban hotels.
Overall the business is only about 2.5% of our overall rooms revenue.
And in Washington D.C.
it's about 4.5%.
So it's not critical.
What we're nervous about is kind of the spillover effect and we're going to have to be pretty discreet about what business we take.
And if a customer by contract has to get government rate that's probably somebody we have to move out if it's a Draconian change.
If people historically have gotten government rate even though it's not part of their contract we're going to have to charge more money.
So there's a lot of moving parts and I'm not sure where it all lines up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What are you -- I agree the spillover effects could be important.
What do you think the total demand is in somewhere like Washington D.C.
from government-related rates? It's only 4.5% from you.
What is it for the market? I don't know what it is for the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Enrique Torres with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The Boston Westin you got some pretty strong RevPAR growth there but the margins actually shrank.
Can you comment on kind of what are the cost issues of that hotel? Yes a couple of things to look at.
This is John.
There was a union audit there which resulted in about -- we had to accrue about $200 000 for potential liabilities.
There was -- that was the hotel I referred to in my prepared remarks that had a higher cover count and a lower average check.
So that hurt food and beverage margins.
I think sales and marketing was also an issue there.
They -- Boston -- I'm sorry Starwood has recently instituted a citywide marketing effort.
They had some positions that were empty last year that were unfilled last year that are now staffed which is I suppose good for coverage but not so good for comps.
So I would say those 3 areas in general on the course of the union wage increase that went into effect.
At 8% this year it is back-loaded.
Enrique there's a couple of other factors below house profit.
The property taxes year-over-year are up about $350 000.
Plus there's the ground rent which is now cash ground rent which historically we have not had to pay cash ground rent of another $100 000.
So at the total impact call it $0.5 million which is purely an increase to the cost.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then some of it in the house bottom line and some of it's is like below the line as well.
Correct.
That's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's going to be more onetime issues.
Well then at least then those won't be onetime.
Well the property taxes and the ground rent are not onetime issues.
On comparable basis it will be less impactful.
And Enrique just to point out the RevPAR growth for the back half of this year at the hotel looks to be very strong and we expect the margins will get better.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then you guys gave some color on the group pace.
You had mentioned that it's -- well it's still strong at 8%.
It did come down from 13% last quarter though the forward pace for the rest of the year.
How should I interpret that change? I think there are 2 ways.
I think over the last year we have seen booking windows lengthen and so I think we have more on the books as a percent of the ultimate forecast than we had in the past.
So I think the availability is an issue.
As overall occupancy increases and the other segments of the business gets stronger there's less need for group.
And I think other than that it's sort of related to kind of the convention calendars in the city and where they sit particularly for the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How was production in the second quarter? Second quarter was -- in the quarter for the quarter and in the quarter for the year were both down fairly significantly in the quarter for the quarter.
But that was a huge impact from the State Farm group in Chicago a million dollar group that canceled which obviously nets out of the net bookings in the quarter for the quarter.
So we were up a little bit in the quarter for the quarter x State Farm and we were up for the year x State Farm.
But it's clearly moderated.
Again part of that is because of the -- simply the availability of inventory.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today's conference.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Jasmine.
To everyone on this call we'd like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock.
I look forward to updating you next quarter.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 DiamondRock Hospitality Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Latacia and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Brugger Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Thanks Latacia.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by John Williams our President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under Federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
Before jumping into the numbers we would like to point out that we continue to see good strength in lodging fundamentals and the macro trends indicate longevity and endurance to the cycle.
We take the most confidence in the constrained new hotel supply which is allowing incremental demand to be harnessed more fully at existing hotels.
With hotels trading at significant discounts to replacement costs and the long lead time for the development of major full-service hotels we believe that the industry is in the early stages of a multiyear run where annual supply growth is one or more percentage points below the long-term average.
On the demand side of things despite some mixed macroeconomic signals hotel demand in many of our markets has returned to prior peak.
Our portfolio ran an impressive 81.7% occupancy in the third quarter with 7 of the hotels running over 90% occupancy.
This is the highest third quarter occupancy level in the history of DiamondRock.
Leisure was a particularly strong segment for us in the third quarter with standout results at our 3 resort-focused hotels in Vail Sonoma and St.
Thomas.
Turning to the third quarter numbers.
We were pleased with our third quarter results which were consistent with our expectations.
The company's third quarter RevPAR growth number of 3.4% is somewhat distorted by comparisons at Frenchman's Reef with rooms out of service last year.
The more indicative number that we will draw your attention to is rooms revenue growth which increased 6.3% in the third quarter.
Profit flow-through was relatively good in the quarter with hotel EBITDA adjusted profit margin growth of about 59 basis points.
As a result third quarter adjusted EBITDA was $46 million an increase of the 10% from the comparable period in 2011.
FFO per share was $0.18.
Several of the recently acquired assets from Blackstone were particularly strong during the third quarter.
RevPAR growth at the Boston Hilton Burlington Hilton and San Diego Westin was 9.7% 16.3% and 9.8% respectively very strong numbers.
We also saw strong growth in the quarter at a number of our other hotels.
The Salt Lake City Marriott's RevPAR increased over 10% as it continues to benefit from the recently opened City Creek Project by Taubman.
The Sonoma Renaissance's RevPAR was up above 10% as well as a result of the continued strength in the San Francisco market.
And the Bethesda Marriott Suites benefited in the quarter from demand created by the AT&amp;T National PGA Tournament and unexpected major storms that knocked out power in the greater Washington D.C.
area for several days.
As we highlighted in our last earnings call our large group hotels in Chicago Boston and Minneapolis were negatively impacted by soft third quarter convention calendars.
Despite these headwinds the Westin Boston and Chicago Marriott Downtown each delivered solid RevPAR growth of around 4%.
Group pace for the fourth quarter is up over 9% with each of our big group hotels benefiting from strong fourth quarter convention calendars.
Specifically group booking pace is up 10% at the Westin Boston 6% at the Chicago Marriott and up 5% at the Hilton Minneapolis.
Additionally we expect strong group performance from the LAX Marriott and the Chicago Conrad with fourth quarter group pace up 42% and 29% respectively.
Our New York City hotels had varying levels of success in the third quarter.
The Courtyard Fifth Avenue had RevPAR growth in excess of 12% whereas the Lexington Hotel's RevPAR growth was only 1% partially due to reduced European traveler demand over the summer.
The Washington D.C.
market which has been one of the best long-term hotel markets in the United States remains a growth challenge market during 2012.
The Washington D.C.
Westin City Center Hotel experienced RevPAR contraction due to the local market challenges as well as being in need of capital investment.
The company has accelerated the timing of the comprehensive capital renovation in order to allow the hotel to regain its rightful market position.
We are currently planning the scope and timing of that renovation which will most likely take place in mid-2013.
We remain confident in the upside opportunity at this well-located hotel which is one of only 2 Westins in D.C.
and its ability post-renovation to regain significant market share.
In St.
Thomas our Frenchman's Reef Marriott continues to gain traction following our $45 million transformational renovation last year.
Total revenues increased in the quarter by $9 million over the comparable quarter which experienced large renovation disruption last year.
However the hotel is facing some demand challenges this fall which are partially attributable to the recent limitation of local government subsidies for USVI flights.
We will discuss this in greater detail in a moment in connection with our new outlook.
In analyzing our third quarter results there are a number of one-time items that should be noted.
One as I mentioned earlier the comparable room night issue at Frenchman's Reef resulted in a 290 basis point delta between the 6.3% rooms revenue increase in the quarter and the 3.4% reported RevPAR growth.
Two disruption at Worthington caused about $2 million of profit displacement from the planned facade restoration project and impacted profit growth by about 60 basis points in the quarter.
And three the company expensed approximately $600 000 of fees related to the exploration of the new ballroom at the Chicago Marriott.
This expense was not in our prior guidance.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We expect to end 2012 with a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of approximately 4.5x.
As importantly 15 of our 26 hotels are unencumbered by debt.
To give you an idea of how much borrowing power that provides the company our cost basis in these 15 unencumbered hotels is about $1.5 billion.
We feel very good about the balance sheet and fundamentally believe that conservative leverage creates shareholder returns.
This conservative leverage strategy along with solid operating results allows DiamondRock to pay a well-covered and competitive dividend yield of over 3%.
I would like to add that being an income company is another core tenet in our strategy to deliver superior shareholder returns.
I'll now turn the call over to John to review our results in further detail and discuss our recent portfolio of recycling activity.
John? Thanks Mark.
Third quarter results met our expectations as the continuing positive demand trends resulted in portfolio RevPAR up 3.4% with ADR up 4.3%.
Leisure transient revenue was up almost 13% in the quarter led by our resorts and seasonally strong leisure performance at the Boston and Burlington Hilton that's up 21% and 18% respectively; the Denver Courtyard up 19%; the Minneapolis Hilton up 16%; the Salt Lake City and Torrance Marriott up 27% and 24% respectively; and the Worthington Renaissance up 15%.
The balance of the revenue gain was the result of modest increases in group and business transient and some well-placed contract business we put into the Lexington Hotel in New York and the LAX and Torrance Marriotts.
Food and beverage revenues were up 4.3% in the quarter but margin growth was restrained because the increase was concentrated in less profitable outlet sales as the third quarter is seasonally low for higher profit banquet and catering revenue.
Rooms margins were impacted by the cost of employee benefits and travel agent commissions which impacted margins by 41 and 30 basis points respectively this quarter.
Support costs were well controlled and were up 4.6% in the quarter.
Overall our asset management team did an excellent job in the quarter working with the hotel operators to control costs through cost containment plans.
We were pleased to achieve profit flow-through for the quarter of 59 basis points of EBITDA margin expansion on 3.4% growth in RevPAR.
We do want to comment specifically on our recent portfolio of acquisition from Blackstone.
As you will recall the portfolio includes the Hilton Boston Hilton Burlington Westin D.C.
and the Westin San Diego.
The portfolio generally performed very well during the third quarter for our period of ownership.
The Boston Hilton achieved RevPAR growth of 11%.
Margins are not comparable because the food and beverage operation was leased out in March and the property began operating under union wage and benefit scales in July.
The San Diego Westin achieved RevPAR growth of 15.4% and adjusted EBITDA margin growth of 175 basis points.
The Burlington Hilton grew RevPAR by 17.6% and adjusted EBITDA margins by 788 basis points.
Finally the Washington D.C.
Westin was impacted by a very weak August in D.C.
against a strong comp and finished down 7.6% in RevPAR.
However some very effective cost containment measures and a property tax reduction allowed the hotel to gain 254 basis points in adjusted EBITDA margin.
This hotel will see the most upside in the portfolio from capital investment which will occur next year.
We remain very bullish on the long-term prospects for the portfolio and have begun the planning and design work for the capital we expect to invest in the portfolio during '13 and '14.
These hotels are well-located in strong markets.
And once the hotels are renovated and repositioned they should enjoy considerable upside potential.
The acquisition of the $495 million portfolio from Blackstone represents a significant milestone in the execution of our strategy to redeploy capital from lower-growth secondary markets into urban core markets.
Turning to the balance of 2012 I want to add a few thoughts to Mark's comments on the fourth quarter.
Overall we expect solid growth during the fourth quarter despite some challenges in New York City market during September resulting from the timing of Yom Kippur and Rosh Hashanah and lower-than-expected turnout at the UN General Assembly.
In addition we expect meaningful growth from the group segment during the fourth quarter as group pace for the quarter is up over 9%.
Although we're not providing 2013 guidance at this time I'd like to provide some color on our 2013 outlook.
Despite difficult comps to 2012 our 2013 group booking pace is up 3.6% which is slightly better than as of the second quarter.
The '13 booking pace is currently weighted towards the first and second quarters of 22.8% and 12.5% respectively.
While the pace for the back half of '13 is currently behind the same time last year the hotels have plenty of time to focus their sales efforts in both groups particularly in the high group volume fourth quarter.
On the special corporate rate we're early in the process but our hotels are targeting increases for next year in the mid-to high single digits.
On the business and transient and leisure segment the bookings are too short term to provide you with any real color.
We're generally optimistic given the low supply backdrop and the high occupancy levels in most of our hotels which should allow us to manage market segmentation and drive rates.
Now I'd like to provide color on our current significant capital projects.
We expect to invest in our portfolio when we identify significant upside opportunities.
We're very excited about the potential of the portfolio and I want to highlight the major capital investments on the horizon.
The rebranding of the Lexington Hotel represents a significant return on investment opportunity for DiamondRock.
We're confident that our upbranding and repositioning will allow the hotel to close the $90 rate gap compared to the most comparable Marriott-branded hotel in the market.
To put that in perspective each dollar of incremental ADR translates into $250 000 of incremental room revenue every year.
We've completed the planning and scope of the comprehensive $32 million to $34 million renovation of the hotel.
We're currently bidding the work and intend to begin construction in late December.
Post renovation the hotel will join the Autograph Collection Marriott's premium lifestyle brand.
The renovation will touch every aspect of the guest experience at the hotel including the guest rooms guest bathrooms and the hotel public space.
This project will be completed in mid-2013.
The project will be phased to minimize disruption but since the hotel runs over 90% occupancy disruption is inevitable.
We expect that majority of the renovation disruption to impact the first half of the year.
We're also finalizing the planning and scope of the renovations of our 2 Manhattan Courtyards which will take place in early 2013.
We've identified an opportunity to reposition these 2 hotels to better compete with the full-service hotels in their respective competitive sets.
Upon completion in Q2 of '13 we expect each of the hotels to command room rates that are closer to the full-service rates in the markets.
Additionally we are redesigning underutilized space at the Courtyard Midtown East to add 5 new and highly valuable keys.
Based on recent market transactions we estimate these incremental keys to be worth approximately $2.5 million in incremental asset value.
We completed the first phase of the renovation of the Worthington Renaissance facade on time on budget and within budgeted displacements.
We've decided to accelerate the second phase of the project into 2012 rather than next year as originally planned because it will mitigate the estimated overall disruption.
We're also finalizing a lease for third-party operation of the restaurant lobby lounge and room service at the hotel which will reconfigure a portion of the lobby and dramatically improve food and beverage margins as well as guest satisfaction.
At the Minneapolis Hilton were designing a room refresh project that is expected to begin in Q4 of '13 and be completed in Q1 of '14 with little disruption.
The Conrad ballroom addition which was added in previously non-revenue-producing space opened on budget in July as scheduled.
The reaction from meeting planners has been tremendous.
Group revenue pace at the Conrad is up almost 30% in the fourth quarter and 14% in 2013.
The lobby upgrade will further reposition the hotel to gain share among the higher-end hotels in Chicago.
That work will begin this December and be completed early in February of 2013 and should result in very little disruption.
As Mark mentioned the Westin Washington D.C.
hotel will undergo a complete repositioning during the middle of 2013.
This hotel is one of only 2 Westins in D.C.
and has significant upside from the capital investment.
We believe there's significant revenue lift by enhancing this product and it should be able to close the $50 rate differential with the Westin West End.
We're currently evaluating the timing and renovation of the Westin San Diego.
We expect to complete the renovation no later than early 2014.
We're investigating the best timing in order to minimize renovation disruption.
Since there is over $1 billion in construction projects within 2 blocks of our Westin San Diego opening up between the end of this year through 2016 we want to get the renovation done as soon as practical to capture the demand from these new buildings.
Finally the Hilton Boston and Hilton Burlington are currently scheduled to be renovated during the seasonally soft winter of 2014 and renovation disruption should be very manageable.
To conclude my comments on capital I would say that while we expect a big payoff from the investment opportunities these types of investments inevitably come with some profit disruption during the process.
We estimate disruption from capital plans the range of between $7 million and $10 million in 2013 with most of it concentrated in Manhattan in the first half of the year and some in D.C.
in the third quarter.
While we're talking about capital projects it's worth reminding you that construction has begun on the 42nd Street Hilton Garden Inn and it's scheduled for completion in mid-2014.
This is 282-room hotel is at 42nd and Broadway the heart of Times Square.
Our cost is fixed on this project and we have no construction risk.
When completed I believe that this will be the single best located select service hotel in Manhattan.
On the acquisition and disposition front we recently completed the sale of the Atlanta Westin Hotel for a high EBITDA multiple.
The hotel required $12 million to $15 million investment to comply with Westin brand requirements which we determined was not a good allocation of capital.
We've now reduced the company's Atlanta exposure to approximately 2%.
This transaction like the prior sale of the 3 assets in suburbs of Lexington Austin and Atlanta furthers the execution of our strategy to continuously upgrade the portfolio and reallocate capital into higher-growth markets.
On the acquisition front we're seeing a better flow of quality assets in our target markets.
We'll continue to pursue acquisitions to grow the company in a thoughtful and disciplined fashion.
However right now our real focus is mining the extensive internal value that we see in the existing portfolio.
Thanks for your continued interest in DiamondRock and I'll turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks John.
To recap our results prior to discussing our revised outlook year-to-date the portfolio has delivered rooms revenue of 7.3% year-to-date RevPAR growth of 5.9% and year-to-date profit margin expansion of nearly 100 basis points.
We are pleased with those results.
Now I'd like to turn to the outlook for the balance of the year.
We remain confident in the lodging recovery.
However we are adjusting our expectations for the fourth quarter and lowering the midpoint of the EBITDA guidance by approximately $9 million excluding the impact from the sale of Atlanta Westin.
We want to make sure that we clearly articulate to our investors the rationale for this change.
First we'd like to take you back to our first quarter earnings call this year.
On that call the company raised its original outlook for full year EBITDA guidance by $9 million based on the early positive trends and our operators raised hopes of accelerating hotel fundamentals during the back half of 2012 specifically for a really exceptional fourth quarter.
In simplest terms our operators got a little ahead of themselves and have now adjusted forecast back to their original expectations for growth in the fourth quarter.
While that's not the whole story for changing our outlook it's a big part of it.
In addition to this overall change in operator expectations there are a few specific things that are impacting the fourth quarter.
I'll try to hit each of the major items.
One we have made the business decision at the Worthington Renaissance to combine what had originally been a 2-phased façade restoration project into one project and completed the disruptive portion of the work entirely during 2012.
While this decision adds about a $1 million in previously unforecasted profit disruption to the fourth quarter we believe it eliminates what would have been another $2 million in profit disruption in 2013.
We are pleased that our asset management team working with the hotel staff to figure out how to move groups around in the fourth quarter in an efficient and less disruptive way.
While originally not budgeted for this fourth quarter we are obviously happy that we will have the opportunity to save $1 million in total disruption from this project.
Two there are 2 previously unanticipated headwinds at Frenchman's Reef that lead us to reduce the hotel's fourth quarter forecast by about $1.5 million.
The first headwind which I mentioned earlier relates to increased airfare to the island of St.
Thomas this fall.
The local government has already spent its travel promotion fund to subsidize airlines flying to the island.
This has raised ticket prices and impacted demand.
We expect this to change as the new year brings a new travel promotion budget and the ability to aid the #1 demand generator to the island -- tourism.
The second issue at Frenchman's relates to some previously unscheduled maintenance at the hotel that requires partial [indiscernible].
These types of activities are unfortunate but necessary to maintain our hotel in first-class condition.
Three our Westin Washington D.C.
City Center Hotel is being impacted by both a weaker-than-anticipated D.C.
markets from the pre-election pause as well as some group and government business inflations from the federal government's recent travel restrictions.
We expect our D.C.
hotels to experience RevPAR contraction of 5% to 7% in the fourth quarter.
Going forward this hotel should benefit the most from our capital investment as groups are holding off from booking until after the renovation and from comparisons to this year with its short-term loss of government business.
Four as we have discussed our portfolio experienced some weakness in September most notably in New York City which was impacted by the timing of Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur as well as the lower-than-expected attendance at the UN General Assembly.
This moderating of demand in September also put additional risk to our interim independent hotel strategy at the Lexington Hotel.
As a reminder the strategy for the fourth quarter was to remove Radisson save $1 million of the franchise expense and even with some revenue displacements net higher profits.
Obviously the success of this interim strategy is contingent on strong demand patterns in New York City for the balance of the year.
Lastly in light of recent trends we have built in some additional conservatism into the new guidance range.
While we certainly want to put forth achievable guidance we believe that our approach is prudent.
While I've just gone through a rather long litany we do expect a good fourth quarter.
Our outlook is for rooms revenue to increase 5% to 7% in the fourth quarter which is consistent with recent guidance from industry bellwethers.
As with last quarter the RevPAR number is distorted by comparisons to Frenchman's Reef.
Our full year guidance shows solid growth as you would expect in this part of the lodging cycle.
For the full year 2012 our outlook is for rooms revenue to grow 6% to 7% and RevPAR growth of 5% to 6%.
Accordingly we expect adjusted EBITDA of $184 million to $190 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.74 to $0.76.
Before concluding the prepared remarks we want to talk about the great potential that we see in DiamondRock.
To that point we would like to leave you with 4 main takeaways today.
The first takeaway is that DiamondRock's portfolio quality and growth potential has never been better.
With $3 billion in hotels the company spent the last 3 years redeploying capital from dispositions of hotels in suburban and slow-growth markets like Atlanta into new strategic markets such as San Diego and Washington D.C.
while building DiamondRock's footprint in key markets such as Boston and New York City.
We believe that our portfolio today is concentrated in some of the best long-term the markets in the country.
The second takeaway is that our portfolio has tremendous growth potential from operations just from lodging recovery and good asset management.
To put it in perspective our comparable hotels are still $70 million below prior peak EBITDA and 500 basis points below prior peak margins of 32.5% that's a lot of growth potential.
If we just returned to prior peak hotel profits and we expect to exceed that over the next few years as we have already crossed over prior peak occupancy that would translate into more than $4 of incremental share price at the long-term average valuation multiple.
The third takeaway is that there are numerous capital and branding initiatives within the existing portfolio to create above-market growth over the next few years.
The highest potential ROI project in 2013 is the conversion of the Lexington Hotel to Marriott's Autograph Collection.
This is in addition to the renovation of our 2 New York City Courtyards which will create 5 new keys.
We also have upgrade opportunities through renovations of our recently acquired hotels most notably the Hilton Boston Westin San Diego and the Westin Washington D.C.
While we will have related profit displacement in 2013 we believe that the return from these capital investments is going to lead to some exceptional upside in the portfolio during what is likely to be the most lucrative part of the lodging cycle.
The final takeaway is that we have purposefully maintained a best-in-class the balance sheet to reduce risk and preserve valuable optionality throughout the cycle.
For a lodging REIT balance sheet management is arguably the #1 driver of value to shareholders.
In conclusion our team remains committed to delivering shareholder value and believes that the internal growth opportunities will be the main driver of DiamondRock's strong relative performance over the next few years.
With that we'd now like to open up the call for any of your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Mark and John I'm filling in for Andrew.
So I just had a couple of quick questions about the guidance.
Mark you gave a lot of really good color on that so I'm probably going to beat the dead horse here a little bit.
But the thing that I guess caught my attention the most regarding the fourth quarter was I guess the change in underwriting or outlook from kind of some of your operators.
So could you give us any more color on just what gave them the optimism in the first quarter? Was it particularly group bookings that they thought they had on the books that were canceled? Or just what are the different -- they gave them that confidence then they're kind of backing off it now? Shaun this is Mark.
I think that there are a couple of things operating at the beginning of the year.
One is they were exceeding their forecast and budget for periods 1 2 and 3.
So as we moved into it they were extrapolating some of those trends even on the kind of some late revenue month extrapolating that for the full year.
In the year for the group pace and the ancillary pickup I think they were expecting more of traditional recovery and I think this recovery is even more a moderate and extended recovery.
So their trajectory was a little different than they're anticipating.
So I think those are the 2 major drivers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I guess on that last point then so the group pace actually looked very good for the fourth quarter right? If I caught it correctly I think you said it was up 9%.
So was it transient and some other categories that aren't coming through in some of these hotels that aren't giving you the compression that you were expecting? Or how is it working? Yes.
I think the business transient is still relatively good.
It's just not accelerating at the same clip that they forecasted.
And then on the group it's not so much the room nights as it's the ancillary spend where we're seeing the difference in the profitability go-through.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess one last one on a couple of the acquisitions and renovation plans for next year.
So I'm wondering.
I'm just trying to understand this for [indiscernible] Westin Washington D.C.
is this in terms of accelerating some of the renovation spend or the challenges at that hotel? Is that different than your underwriting I guess when you guys acquired it and how? It seemed in the language that you guys had in both the release and in your prepared remarks that maybe it was.
So just kind of trying to understand that.
And probably a similar question for the Lexington asset here in New York.
Just given is it really just Europe that's kind of different than what you guys were targeting there? What's different at that hotel? Okay let me take those in turns.
So in Washington D.C.
when we underwrote the hotel we do 10 years underwriting.
And we had the renovation sometime in the first 18 months.
What we've seen in our short period of ownership is there's more group reluctance to book the hotel in the current physical state.
It needs a renovation.
And so what we see is the quicker we can get that renovation done the quicker we can get to our pro forma returns at the hotels.
So we are trying to book that in the least disruptive but as quickly as possible.
So there was a -- this first underwriting was going to happen somewhere between mid-2013 and the end of the first quarter of '14.
We decided to take the more aggressive position in that range because we see the returns from the other side it.
On the Lexington in the summer the European demand at Radisson is tied internationally mostly the European demand which was softer in the summer.
They don't have the same kind of distribution for countries like Korea and China and some other ones that were making up for some of the international inbound traffic to New York during the summer.
So that was particularly impactful at our hotel.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First just on New York.
Can you talk a little bit more about your expectations for New York for next year? I know you're not giving official guidance but given some of the supply coming on the market and with the renovations what kind of RevPAR or relative RevPAR to the industry you think you could see in New York? And then just on your relative exposure to New York will you be happy with it after the Hilton Garden Inn opens up in '14 or do you need more or do you think that maybe be a little bit too much? And then the second question is just on Frenchman's.
Just want your updated thoughts on the property.
Obviously you've had a big renovation there.
Some issues since then.
I'm just wondering on your outlook for the property and its existence within your portfolio.
Okay that's a lot.
This is Mark.
I'll take 2 of those questions and then turn over to John for the outlook generally on New York.
So as far as the -- taking the last question first -- Frenchman's Reef the property looks great.
The meeting planner reaction to what we did there was fantastic.
I think what we're seeing in the fall is just a more temporary condition.
Obviously the maintenance issue is a one-time issue and then the increase in airfare.
The way the local government manages its travel promotion budget is always a little bit unpredictable but we're anticipating that that won't happen again.
So I think it should be great and we like that asset a lot.
It's performed very well this year for us overall.
As far as our New York concentration I think being 25% New York which is kind of where going to get to is probably about where we want to be.
We believe that New York over the next 10 years is probably the #1 demand growth market in the country especially with the patterns that we see happening in international travel over the next decade.
It's the place we really want to be.
It's probably not prudent to have more than a quarter of your portfolio tied to any one market so we think that's probably the optimal place for DiamondRock to be somewhere in the mid-20s exposure to the market.
I'll turn the call over to John to talk a little bit more about what we're seeing for the fourth quarter and maybe a little bit into next year for New York.
Okay Eli.
What we're seeing in the fourth quarter in New York is a slightly softer demand environment than we'd anticipated when we made the decision to take the Radisson brand off on September 15.
We lost the market share in the summer as Mark explained because of the slowdown in European wholesale business primarily.
In the fourth quarter we're seeing -- we anticipate a continued loss of market share that was in the underwriting but what we didn't underwrite was a relative softness and I do want to over-emphasize this but a relative softness particularly in September because of the holidays and the lack of UN pickup which has been the most reliable September demand generator for years in New York.
And 45 countries just decided not to come this year.
In terms of the supply we see probably a continued above-national average supply in New York.
Fortunately a lot of it is outside of our direct market environment.
But there is some impact regardless in the entire city as you see a 4% increase next year that pans out.
It will inevitably impact our rate potential in the city.
Now having said that once we complete this renovation of the Lexington and the 2 Courtyards we're going to have a dramatically better product.
In the case of the Lexington we're going to have a dramatic improvement in the RevPAR index.
As I said in my statement there's a $90 spread between this hotel the Lexington and the most comparable Marriott branded hotel in the market.
We expect to pick up a lot of that $90 once we open the renovated hotel.
We'll be able open the renovated hotel before the completion of the renovation.
As the last rooms go under construction the balance of the hotel will be complete and that's the point at which we will convert to Autograph.
So we have very high hopes for the Lexington particularly in the second of next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just continuing on the New York.
What is the supply growth that you're showing for maybe the remainder of the year as well as next year? Okay.
Yes this is John.
I think the overall estimate is about 2% for this year.
That includes the entire year not just the balance of the year.
I'm looking at about 4% for next year and about 2.5% to 3% in '14.
Hopefully somebody can come up with a higher and better use of land and hotels in New York within that time period.
Research Division</strong> All right.
It doesn't seem like you and others are that concerned with the ability to absorb the demand [indiscernible] of the supply.
Well there are a couple of things that have been working in New York.
First of all there was lot of displaced demand in Manhattan that went out into New Jersey suburbs and the boroughs.
That demand has pretty much been brought back into the city.
So at this point the new supply has to be directly related to the demand growth.
So far demand has outpaced supply.
As long as that continues think you'll continue to see the absorption that you've seen.
And it's not without some impact I have to add.
I mean depending on your location within the city and where the new supply is coming which is kind of West Side and downtown there's additional impact in those markets.
We've maintained all along that if you have the right location in the city the Midtown East Chelsea and soon to be Times Square that's going to minimize the impact of the new supply.
It won't completely mitigate it but it will minimize it.
So that continues to be our feeling.
As long as demand continues to outgrow supply absorption will continue and the impact will be mitigated.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one more question.
I know you haven't given RevPAR guidance for next year.
Would you say that let's take New York Chicago and D.C.
where will those 3 markets at this point fall in terms of above below your -- what you think next year will look like? All right.
So this is Mark Will.
For D.C.
our anticipation is for a better D.C.
next year.
Obviously the inauguration is worth between 1% and 1.5% increase in RevPAR all by itself generally in the city.
We've also seen easy comparisons to what's going on with the lobbying effort which is the big demand generator in the city should be very active next year.
Although the citywide counter is not strong that's not going to affect the number of the properties like ours in the city.
So I think D.C.
will be a much better story next year than this year.
And I think granularly with the government here and the high offices that D.C.
runs it's a great market to be in.
Chicago the convention calendar looks good for next year.
Our group bookings look relatively good so we're anticipating Chicago has a decent year in 2013.
We haven't guided our preliminary budgets yet so I'm a little hesitant to say exactly what we think that market is going to do.
And then New York City our hotels are transient-based hotels.
So we're going by trend lines.
There's not a group booking that kind of provide you clear guidance.
But the special corporate negotiations are beginning.
The hotel operators feel like they have the leverage.
They're going for high single-digit increases there.
So I think as John mentioned it's really going to be I think a different story depending on the location of your hotel next year in New York City.
But we feel that even with some supply there is a lot of demand growth that's going on in the city.
There is good special corporate negotiations leverage I think on our side this year.
So we're relatively optimistic for next year.
Research Division</strong> That doesn't sort of answer my question.
Actually what I was trying to find out -- that's helpful -- -- but if you came out with a RevPAR guidance number next year for the whole portfolio where would those 3 perform relative to that RevPAR number for the whole portfolio? Yes Will.
I think we're hesitant to give 2013 guidance and I don't want to back into it either.
Your next question comes from the line of David Loeb with DiamondRock (sic) [Baird] Research Division</strong> David Loeb with Baird.
This one is probably for Sean.
I have 2.
In the release you noted that you expect the line balance to be at about $50 million at the end of the year.
That's about $17 million less than what we would have thought given the timing of the write-down of Oak Brook and its book value now of a little north of $15 million.
Are you contemplating sale of that by the end of the year? No David.
The balance of the line is really going to be paid off from proceeds from the Atlanta Westin disposition which is roughly cash proceeds of $40 million as well as excess cash flow generated during the fourth quarter in excess of our dividends.
The Oak Brook write-down was noncash so that does not impact our estimated line balance.
Research Division</strong> But we're calculating in cash flow from the quarter free cash flow.
But my question was really that since it's now $15 million of net book value more or less were you thinking of selling it? I know it's a noncash write-down.
Are you thinking of selling it? And is that in that estimate for the $50 million? Yes there is no sale of the Oak Brook here in our fourth quarter estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like what you're suggesting is that maybe there's a lot more free cash flow than what we're estimating.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second this one on Burlington.
There's a perception among investors that Burlington came with the package.
And it wasn't like you're going out looking for assets in Burlington Vermont.
I have to assume that you underwrote it and decided that it was a good investment for DiamondRock.
But particularly in light of other assets within the portfolio that had been underperformers over the years Atlanta perhaps being an example of one that has been kind of a flat IRR 0 IRR or Oak Brook which clearly has not been good can you just give a little bit of explanation of where you see the returns in Burlington and why you think that that asset makes sense for DiamondRock? Okay this is Mark David.
I'd be happy to take that one.
So stepping back in time when we initially went up and negotiated with Blackstone on what a portfolio would be for DiamondRock we went through 2 dozen assets I would say come through and try to pick the best portfolio.
We were targeting about $0.5 billion.
We went through those and somewhat the size dictated the composition of the portfolio.
Burlington would not be strategic market for the company but we are actually fairly excited about that asset.
It's pretty simple it’s franchised so the exit is we think relatively strong with local independent operator managers.
And Burlington our allocated price of $55 million represents a 10.4x EBITDA multiple in 2012 numbers which we think is strong.
And the hotel is going to grow I think about 15% in RevPAR this year over last year.
So on an independent basis we think that's actually a fairly compelling investment obviously not a core target market but we like the hotel a lot.
On your related comment about the sale of hotels like Atlanta or the return on Oak Brook I think our strategy generally is to sell the hotels that haven't performed as well as we would have anticipated.
So I think you're going to see that more on the sales.
The home-run deals on the portfolio that we've done over the last year are ones we'd probably least likely to sell.
So just to give you an example the 2 Courtyards in New York our cost base is probably about $240 000 a key in those.
But I don't think you're going to see us sell those anytime soon even if we can get $0.5 million a key and make a huge again.
We think the growth potential in those hotels is too valuable to give up.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Wengerd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit more about your 2013 bookings.
Can you talk about the rate increase that you have on the books? And then how much of your expected group revenues for 2013 are on the books? And when you look at the booking window how is it comparing to the booking window at the peak of the prior cycle? Tim this is John.
I'll take that one.
The 2013 group pace is currently room-night oriented.
So it's actually down a little bit in rate.
That's not unusual.
The early group business that you put on the books is typically you're going for volume.
As you get into the year and do in the quarter for the quarter in the year for the year then the rate becomes the driver.
In terms of how much is on the books right now about 60% 61% is on the books for 2013 that's in the anticipated group.
Again Mark mentioned we don't have budgets yet so we don't have full clarity on how much group business will do next year.
But if we maintain about 30% of the portfolio revenue and it represents about 60% we expect to cross over into 2013 with about 70% which is our historic average of the total '13 revenue on the books January 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then that 70% that you mentioned entering the year what was that  like at the peak say entering  2007 or entering 2008? Do you have an idea of that? It's not a comparable number because the portfolio has changed.
But I think 70% to 75% is probably typical of a crossover rate for typical group hotels.
Some large convention hotels would have a higher percentage on the books as you cross over.
Some of the more standard 30% 35% group passes would have less.
So it's a blend of roughly 70%.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And that 3.6% the group pace that you mentioned for 2013 that's based on the 61% that you mentioned? That's right.
It's compared to the same time last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla with FBR.
Research Division</strong> When you mentioned about your group base being a little bit stronger for the back half of next year given most of the renovation activities kind of front-loaded for 2013 I'm just trying to reconcile what's causing sort of the group fall-off in a way in the back of the year of next year.
Okay this is John.
I'll take that.
The group pace is up 3.6 overall but it's up dramatically in the first half 20-something percent in the first quarter and 12.5% in the very heavy volume second quarter.
There's-- the balance of the year again it depends on how far in advance the groups are booking and a lot of our -- we have 3 major convention hotels where advanced booking windows are lengthening and that's important.
In the other hotels the nature of the business is that it's much shorter-term oriented.
So corporate groups tend to be much shorter-term bookers.
And therefore we feel comfortable that at the back half of the year we have plenty of time to put groups on the books.
It's really not related to the renovation.
The renovation work is done primarily in transient hotels in 2013.
So it really doesn't have an impact on the group booking cycle.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just when you look across the major convention cities in your portfolio your Chicago and Boston if you can just give us some sense of how you see these cities shaping up in terms of just convention activity not specific to groups at your hotels but just overall market convention stuff next year versus this year.
Okay.
In Boston there are more citywide conventions with significantly more room nights associated with them over 40% in room nights.
In Boston it's important to distinguish between BCEC and Heinz [ph] -- sorry what did I do? Oh I'm sorry.
That was for '14 I gave you.
For '13 pace is down at BCEC in Boston and I believe it's flat to slightly down at Heinz.
'14 is up significantly.
Again distinguishing between BCEC where even if there are fewer number of room nights the groups are smaller we're attached to the Convention Center and therefore we get the first 800 rooms.
In Chicago next year is a decent pace.
Right now it's roughly flat to down just slightly.
But it should be a very good year with the way the pattern of the demand is falling.
Then at '14 right now they're behind a little bit but they anticipate that they'll catch up.
In -- you didn't ask about Los Angeles.
But Los Angeles is down significantly in the number of conventions and room nights for '13.
Minneapolis which is very important to us is about 8% up next year in the number of conventions.
And again we're attached to the Convention Center so the number of room nights is not as important as the number of conventions.
Salt Lake City which is important to us sees a fall-off next year in terms of room nights but the booking pace at the hotel is quite strong.
And San Diego has a good pace next year.
It's up 10% in the number of conventions and roughly flat in room nights.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's great color.
One final question.
I'm looking at your balance sheet and it seems like you have $41.8 million as assets held for sale.
Any color? Sure Nikhil.
That is the Westin Atlanta North which closed after the end of the quarter [indiscernible] classified as an asset held for sale.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Co.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But I was just hoping if you can add a little bit of color.
You mentioned that there was some unexpected maintenance that occurred in the quarter at Frenchman's Reef.
Wondered if you could tell us or give us any color what that was and if it had any property [indiscernible] is there a concern that there might be other things that might be following as a result.
Well this is Mark I'll take that one.
So the maintenance at Frenchman's Reef's which is one of the maintain tower which is one of 4 buildings the property be shuttered for 1 week relates to replacing some sewer lines that after so many decades you'd need to do that under the floor.
We went in a couple of months ago.
We scoped all the pipes found ones that needed to be repaired or replaced and that's the maintenance that we're going to undertake here.
It was not related to the renovation.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess there wasn't [indiscernible] that could have been looked at during the renovation and could have been resolved at that point in time or just weren't -- hindsight is 20-20 but...
That would've been great.
We didn't scope -- you don't normally scope pipes -- every pipe in the building unless there is a problem and here we had some indication that there was a problem but not until about 1.5 months ago.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you.
To everyone on the call we'd just like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock.
We look forward to updating you on the next quarter.
Bye-bye.
This concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may all now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Martine and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Brugger Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Martine.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
We would also invite you to review our new Investor Presentation posted on our website at www.drhc.com.
Let me start today by expressing my sincere thanks to departing COO John Williams for his contributions to DiamondRock over the last decade.
He played an integral role in founding and growing the company and we wish him his best in his upcoming retirement.
Before we review our results for the quarter I want to take a minute to provide an overview of DiamondRock strategy and how we plan to drive value.
We believe that the combination of a balanced portfolio of premier assets in top gateway assets and destination resorts and a conservative clean balance sheet positions DiamondRock to deliver above average shareholder returns across the full lodging cycle.
We take a long-term approach to investing in our properties and will tolerate short-term disruption when we uncover outside value creation opportunities.
We seek to identify and acquire hotels with excellent locations and upside for either under-management underinvestment or brand conversion opportunities.
Moreover we continually focus our precious CapEx dollars on the best opportunities to drive RevPAR and margin growth.
We've assembled the portfolio with a balanced mix of the 3 major demand drivers: business transient group and leisure.
This approach sets the portfolio up for consistent performance across all phases of the lodging cycle.
Our balance sheet has lower leverage than most of our peers and no near-term debt maturities.
More than half of our assets are unencumbered.
We believe this gives us substantial financial flexibility and supports sustainable dividend payments which are a key component of lodging returns over time.
I am proud to say that we returned more than $375 million in cash to our shareholders in dividends since our IPO.
To summarize our strategy our singular goal is to create long-term shareholder value through a high-quality portfolio of assets a clean and low risk balance sheet and focused execution and we're committed to providing transparency around our progress related to this strategy through best-in-class disclosures.
In a minute I'll provide more details on several key actions we are taking to drive growth and value.
But first let me touch briefly on our broad sector view.
The lodging story remains very strong with good results in the fourth quarter and for the full year 2012 and encouraging trends headed into 2013.
Despite mixed broader economic trends lodging RevPAR continued its strong momentum with 6.3% overall growth in 2012 with solid 3% demand growth.
For 2013 we are encouraged by projected 5% increase in corporate profits as well as improving trends in corporate investment employment and consumer sentiment.
The lodge industry is off to a strong start in 2013 with January RevPAR growth of 8.8%.
We believe that 2013 will be another great year for the industry with RevPAR likely increasing 4% to 6%.
The overall supply picture for the sector is also very positive.
New hotel additions are projected to run at 40% of their historical average in 2013 and '14 and remain well below forecasted demand figures.
Industry RevPAR growth will benefit from demand growth which we currently forecast to grow at a CAGR of 2.5% from 2013 to 2016.
This meaningfully outpaces our projection of new hotel supply which we estimate at a CAGR of 1.5% for the same period.
With hotels currently trading at significant discounts to replacement cost we believe this lodging cycle will be an extended one.
We thought it would be helpful to discuss the actions that we have taken to transform our portfolio over the past few years as well as the progress we are making on some recent acquisitions.
As you know since the recovery began in 2010 our execution has been focused on the following strategic objectives: first improving portfolio quality; second buying early in the cycle when the most growth is ahead; and third diversifying brands by adding more Hilton and Westin product and diversifying managers.
Currently 40% of our portfolio is independently managed and we expect to move to a 50:50 mix of branded and independent management.
Ultimately we believe pairing each hotel with the right operator whether it's independent or branded is the best formula for value creation.
During the last 3 years we completed over $1.5 billion in acquisitions and dispositions to fundamentally reposition the portfolio.
We sold hotels in markets like Atlanta and Lexington Kentucky and deployed capital in growth markets like San Francisco Boston San Diego Charleston Denver and New York City.
Importantly this transformation increased portfolio RevPAR by $16 and EBITDA margins by over 240 basis points.
We are pleased with the high-quality portfolio of hotels that we have assembled.
Based on our current stock price trading at a significant discount to NAV and what we estimate to be a 30%-plus discount to replacement cost we don't expect to be active buyers in the near term.
Our efforts in 2013 will be focused on mining the unique and exceptional value creation opportunities within our existing portfolio primarily through the successful execution of our targeted capital investments.
In addition we will continue to explore dispositions of non-core hotels.
We believe that this strategy positions us for significant future earnings growth which should translate into outperformance of our shares.
While we're talking about the future I want to report that construction is progressing well on the Times Square Hilton Garden Inn which remains on schedule for completion in mid-2014.
This 282-room hotel is at 42nd and Broadway the heart of Times Square.
Our cost of $450 000 per key is fixed and not subject to construction cost overruns.
When completed I believe that this will be the single best located select-service hotel in Manhattan and at a price per key that is well below current market value.
Further we are anticipating a 9% EBITDA yield the first full year of operations at this hotel.
I'd like to now spend a few minutes on our most recent acquisitions.
Generally our acquisitions this cycle are performing as expected and we're happy with how we've increased our exposure to top markets such as New York Denver Boston Minneapolis and D.C.
Most recently we purchased the Hotel Rex San Francisco.
This hotel is immediately accretive.
It is a fee-simple nonunion hotel in the heart of one of the best lodging markets in the country managed by Joie de Vivre Hospitality a leader in the non-branded boutique hotel segment.
The hotel is performing very well with 20% RevPAR growth in 2012.
Last summer we acquired a portfolio of 4 hotels.
Consistent with our strategy these hotels were under-managed and underinvested in with good long-term upside.
Let me review our investment thesis for each of these properties in that portfolio.
The nonunion Westin Washington D.C.
which is located in the heart of D.C.
at the intersections of 14th and M Street is one of only 2 Westin-branded hotels in Washington D.C.
We see tremendous upside in this asset from 2 main drivers: first we believe we can drive meaningful RevPAR improvement with a targeted capital plan beginning late this fall; second we don't believe that the prior sales efforts maximize the benefits from the Starwood system.
We believe that we can introduce a better revenue management strategy.
The hotel lost 5% market share during the fourth quarter from some short-term group loss and the impact of being pre-renovation which we highlighted on our last earnings call.
In total the hotel is off 6 percentage points in market share since prior peak.
We believe that we cannot only recapture lost market share but also drive the hotel to record levels of profitability with the right renovation scope.
2013 has started off well with the presidential inauguration leading to a RevPAR increase of 34% for January which was in line with our expectations.
The nonunion Westin San Diego is a well-located hotel near the Gaslamp District and within walking distance to the Convention Center.
San Diego is one of our favorite markets because of its exceptional weather desirable convention venue and strong amenity base.
Our Westin San Diego is located across the street from the newly-opened $400 million Federal Courthouse which we expect to generate incremental demand.
The property started off strong in 2013 with January RevPAR up 64%.
Another indicator of upside is that the hotel is currently 6 percentage points below prior-peak market share.
We believe our hotel will be able to significantly bridge the market share gap after our capital investments.
The Hilton Burlington is located in the heart of downtown Burlington Vermont on Lake Champlain and proximate to the University of Vermont.
The hotel has been a pleasant surprise and is outperforming expectations with impressive double-digit RevPAR growth in 2012.
Lastly the Hilton Boston enjoys a premier location in Boston and features 66 suites.
We recently renamed the hotel The Hilton Boston Downtown Faneuil Hall to reposition the marketing of this asset and highlight both its excellent business transient location as well as its highly desirable leisure location near Faneuil Hall.
Moreover we have taken significant actions to drive upside from this property.
In the fourth quarter we brought in Davidson a well-respected independent hotel management company with a proven track record of improving revenues and enhancing margins at luxury upscale properties.
We've also installed new leadership at the hotel during the fourth quarter including a new GM as well as new directors of sales catering and rooms.
During the transition the hotel lost 11 percentage points of market share which should provide additional revenue penetration opportunities for 2013 from the easy comp alone.
As Davidson completes the operator transition and works with us to put in place revenue-maximizing strategies we believe that we will recapture lost market share and expect to realize substantial upside.
We feel good about the hotels' projected 2013 revenue growth including the greater than 10% RevPAR growth in January.
Our team remains very bullish on the Boston market.
With that I'll hand the call over to Sean who will discuss our operating results the status of our capital renovations and our outlook for 2013.
Thanks Mark.
Turning to the fourth quarter numbers results exceeded our expectations.
Total revenues increased 6.5% and RevPAR grew almost 4%.
The flow-through was solid with house profit margin increasing 170 basis points and adjusted EBITDA margin increasing over 100 basis points.
Our portfolio's fourth quarter sell-out nights increased over 20% from the same period of 2011.
In total the company generated $72.3 million of adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
Our urban select-service hotels in New York City outperformed expectations post-Hurricane Sandy.
Our Courtyard hotels in Midtown delivered fourth quarter RevPAR growth of 15.9% and 8.1% respectively.
Our Hilton Garden Inn in Chelsea delivered fourth quarter revenue growth of over 10%.
Our resorts were another bright spot in the quarter led by Vail with a 15.5% RevPAR increase and record rates during Christmas week.
The Lodge at Sonoma also outperformed with increased RevPAR over 13% during the fourth quarter.
Frenchman's Reef increased fourth quarter revenues by over $5 million which represent greater than a 50% increase from the comparable period of 2011.
Most importantly $3.8 million of this incremental revenue flowed to EBITDA.
As Mark mentioned our most recent acquisition the Hotel Rex San Francisco delivered RevPAR growth in excess of 20% among the highest in our portfolio.
Another strong performer was the Salt Lake City Marriott with both fourth quarter and full year RevPAR growth of 18%.
The hotel will continue to benefit from our location within the newly-opened City Creek mixed-use project which has been a tremendous demand driver.
The Westin Boston Waterfront supported by strong group bookings at the BCEC delivered a RevPAR increase of over 8%.
Like many peers we experienced a softer D.C.
market in the fourth quarter which was dramatically impacted by Hurricane Sandy as well as some last-minute cancellations of group -- of government group business.
Moreover as Mark mentioned we transitioned the management at the Boston Hilton which led to a temporary loss in market share during that period as well as cost increases related to wage parity.
Outperformance in the fourth quarter led us to exceed our full year expectations as well.
Our 2012 pro forma revenue increased 7.2% and RevPAR grew 5.3%.
The company was also pleased with our flow-through as we achieved hotel-adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 86 basis points.
In 2012 we invested $49 million into our portfolio.
For 2013 and into 2014 we plan to invest approximately $140 million into the portfolio.
We expect to fund the capital projects as follows: $50 million from existing cash reserves which are classified as restricted cash on the balance sheet; and the remaining $90 million from corporate cash about 1/3 of which will come from excess hotel cash flow and the balance from the line.
We currently have tremendous borrowing capacity from our 15 unencumbered assets as well as potential proceeds from non-core asset sales.
It is also worth noting that at least 25% of the cash will not be spent until 2014.
We believe that the successful execution of our 2013 capital plans will be a significant catalyst for earnings growth for 2014 and beyond.
We are confident in our ability to deliver long-term outperformance by making the right investments to harness opportunities for internal growth.
We will do our best to minimize the disruption during the renovations while providing investors with a compelling post-renovation growth vehicle.
Importantly we expect to begin to see results from some of these investments in the second half of 2013.
I want to highlight the major capital investments on the horizon.
On January 2 we began our multimillion dollar renovation at the Lexington Hotel in New York.
We believe it is the single best opportunity for outsize returns in our portfolio.
We currently expect the renovation to cost between $40 million and $45 million which is an increase from our prior estimate.
The scope change reflects additional scope to upgrade building infrastructure for the future as well as a 10% contingency.
Marriott will provide over $4 million of key money that we will use to offset the cost of the renovation.
The infrastructure items were generally identified in our acquisition underwriting and we made the strategic call to accelerate these items to minimize future disruption as well as recurring repairs and maintenance costs.
After renovation and rebranding to Marriott's Autograph Collection we expect to see meaningful rate gains starting in late 2013 with the hotel EBITDA expected to increase to $20 million during 2014 and fully ramped at $30 million-plus over the next few years.
This will be a multiyear growth catalyst for DiamondRock.
We expect the bulk of the disruption brand relaunching costs and other transition costs to be behind us by the second half of 2013.
We are investing approximately $12 million to upgrade our Manhattan Courtyards including adding 5 new guestrooms at the Courtyard Midtown East.
The renovations will be completed in the second quarter of 2013 which will allow us to benefit from the higher-rated back half of the year.
The 5 new rooms are estimated to cost less than $1 million and we estimate that these new keys will add approximately $2.5 million of value to the hotel.
We are currently finalizing the scope timing and cost of the renovations of both the Westin Washington D.C.
and the Westin San Diego.
We currently expect the renovations to commence during the latter part of 2013.
While we will provide estimated renovation costs during our next call we expect to expand the scope of both renovations beyond the brand-required PIPs in order to better position the hotels to gain market share although the increases are not expected to be materially above our original underwriting.
Finally we are planning the renovations of the Hilton Boston and Hilton Burlington for 2014.
The renovation scope and costs are expected to be consistent with our acquisition underwriting.
The renovations are targeted during the seasonally soft winters in those markets so disruption should be minimal.
We have tremendous conviction that our 2013 capital investments will lead to outperformance in 2014 and beyond.
While the disruptions will likely cause some near-term volatility we are confident that the long-term benefits are well worth it.
Now I think it is helpful to talk through our 2013 outlook for certain key markets.
Our planned 2013 renovation disruption will result in a dislocation of our 2013 portfolio results relative to their markets specifically in New York City Washington and San Diego.
Once we are through this short-term growing pain as a result of these renovations we expect good long-term upside from these investments.
New York City demand growth remained strong as the decrease in European demand is being offset by Australian and Asian demand.
The current supply dynamics will likely put some limits on rate increases but we expect the recently-approved $50 billion Hurricane Relief Act to generate incremental demand for the city.
Overall we remain bullish on the long-term prospects for our well-located New York City hotels.
Looking to 2014 these hotels should generate outsize growth as they will benefit from our capital investments during 2013 particularly the upside from rebranding of the Lexington to Marriott Autograph Collection.
In addition our 2014 will benefit from the midyear opening of our Times Square Hilton Garden Inn.
Boston is expected to have a strong transient year during 2013 which should benefit our Boston Hilton.
However the BCEC Convention Center is having an off year which will impact the 2013 results of the Westin Boston Waterfront whose group pace is down 10%.
Our 2013 revenue management strategy is to backfill the hotel with higher-rated transients as we expect incremental demand to be generated from compression from a strong year at the Hynes Center.
We expect 2014 to be a terrific year for our Westin as citywides impact in the hotel are up more than 33%.
The Westin Boston is expected to capture more than our fair share of the citywide demand as evidenced by our 2014 group booking pace being up 38%.
Chicago benefited from a fantastic citywide demand in 2012.
Despite a modest decline in 2013 citywide room nights group booking pace at the Chicago Marriott and Conrad are up 7% and 13% respectively.
For Washington D.C.
the 2013 demand picture will be impacted by government travel policies and continued political dysfunction.
On the other hand the inauguration was a help and Congress is expected to be in session for 75 additional days in 2013 compared to 2012.
We are very positive on D.C.
over the long run because of its high occupancy educated workforce and stable employers.
With that said our 2013 is best characterized as a transition year as we invest capital to reposition the hotel.
All of our resorts are setting up well for 2013 amidst a solid recovery in leisure and we expect all of them to exceed the national average for RevPAR growth by a significant margin this year.
In particular Frenchman's Reef is expected to continue to ramp for our -- from our 2011 repositioning project.
The expected 2013 hotel results are consistent with our initial underwriting of the capital investment.
Our outlook for 2013 is for another growth year for lodging fundamentals.
Our outlook will be impacted by 2 major items: first and most impactful we will experience renovation disruption in 2013.
Our renovations will impact RevPAR growth by 3 percentage points.
In total we estimate 2013 hotel-adjusted EBITDA disruption of approximately $10 million to $12 million which is a few million dollars higher than our prior estimate.
The variance is the result of the additional time required to complete the additional scope items at the Lexington as well as incremental disruption at the Fifth Avenue Courtyard from union activity which has been successfully resolved.
Second our 2013 group segment will be impacted by the decrease in citywides in Boston and Minneapolis which is expected to have a 50 basis point impact on our RevPAR growth.
With that for the full year 2013 we expect portfolio RevPAR growth of 1% to 3% which incorporates 3 percentage points of renovation disruption; adjusted EBITDA of $195 million to $205 million which reflects $10 million to $12 million of EBITDA renovation disruption; and adjusted FFO per share of $0.70 to $0.74.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet and capital allocation.
We have consistently maintained a simple and low-risk balance sheet with virtually no corporate debt.
We ended 2012 with a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of approximately 4.5x and with 15 of our 27 hotels unencumbered by debt.
To give you an idea of how much borrowing power that provides the company those 15 unencumbered hotels generated over $90 million of hotel-adjusted EBITDA during 2012.
We believe conservative leverage is essential to delivering superior shareholder returns across the lodging cycles.
With our favorable outlook and strong balance sheet the board recently approved raising the quarterly dividend 6% to $0.085 per share.
This allows us to pay a well-covered and competitive dividend that currently represents a yield of 4%.
I'll now turn it back over to Mark for some final thoughts.
Mark? Thanks Sean.
We are very excited about the future of DiamondRock.
With 27 hotels concentrated in perennially strong gateway markets as well as prime resort locations the portfolio quality and long-term prospects have never been better.
We believe our portfolio contains tremendous internal growth opportunities and that our ability to realize this potential will lead to outperformance in coming years.
Additionally group for our portfolio is likely based on convention calendars to moderately increase in 2013.
Our 2013 group pace is up 4% and 72% of our estimated 2013 group revenues are already on the books.
More importantly the convention calendars are dramatically better in several of our main markets in 2014.
Boston alone will be a big driver of growth in 2014.
Our 2014 group pace which includes approximately 50% of 2012 group revenues is up an impressive 15.6%.
In conclusion our team remains committed to delivering shareholder value and believes that internal growth opportunities will be the main driver of DiamondRock strong relative performance over the next few years.
Before opening the call for questions I'm thrilled to welcome Rob Tanenbaum as our next Chief Operating Officer and Head of Asset Management.
He will start on April 1.
Rob brings over 20 years of hospitality industry experience to the job including over 15 years of asset management experience most recently at Madison Hotel Advisors the company he founded in 2004.
Madison's portfolio consisted of more than 3 000 rooms for clients including Goldman Sachs' Whitehall Funds and Sam Zell's Equity Group Investments.
Prior to founding Madison Rob worked as Vice President of Asset Management for Host Hotels &amp; Resorts from 1996 to 2004.
Before Host Rob worked as Associate with PKF as well as being on the opening management teams for the Four Seasons Resort Wailea in Maui.
Rob is a well-known and respected leader in the hospitality industry and we are very fortunate to have him join our team.
We are greatly looking forward to introducing Rob to analysts and to investment communities over the coming months.
With that we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan Sadler.
Just had some question related to the dispositions.
I know you guys have made some good progress of -- through selling assets you viewed as non-core.
It sounds like you've still got some work you'd like to do.
Could you just talk about that percent of the portfolio you view today as being non-core? Yes Austin this is Mark.
That's a great question.
As you know last year we sold 5 assets.
They generally -- generally when we look at our portfolio we always focus on increasing portfolio quality and one measure that it would be average RevPAR.
So if you look at our portfolio of 27 hotels by definition the bottom 10% 15% by RevPAR would be the ones that we're continually looking at trying to monetize as a way of upgrading the portfolio.
So I would say there are at least 3 assets in our portfolio not the big ones but there are 3 assets that we will be out of over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> And then any color on the timing of when you might be able to execute some of those sales this year sort of first half of the year second half of the year? And then how would you describe sort of demand overall in the acquisition market? Okay.
On demand demand has increased particularly over the last 6 to 9 months for what I would call non-core assets outside the main urban areas as the financing markets have continued to improve and as private equity's gotten more bullish on lodging.
So I think the markets continue to improve for those kinds of non-core asset dispositions.
And you've seen that with some of the sales not only from our company last year but from some of our peers.
As far as specific timing we don't comment on pending transactions but I will say a number of our hotels we want to -- we're not -- although we're motivated to sell them we want to maximize the profitability.
So several of them have some work to either be done on the capital front to maximize the value first or may be terminable with the current brand or manager but may not be terminable in the next 30 days.
For instance one of our hotels is terminable in August of this year so we would wait to monetize that asset until that event occurred.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Mark your prepared remarks are very bullish on the portfolio the recent acquisitions and the stock which you mentioned was a large discount to NAV.
Looking at the performance of the Blackstone and Lexington where the bulk of your capital's been invested earnings have significantly missed underwriting.
Blackstone did $31 million in 2012.
Your estimates was $34 million $35 million.
That miss was all in the second half of last year.
Lexington did $19 million.
Your estimate was $25 million.
I guess my question is before you ask us to look forward and appreciate the upside in a company that might be on the come can you explain to us exactly what caused these assets to miss? And can you give us some EBITDA targets for both Blackstone and Lexington for 2013 and 2014 given that you're starting from a much lower base? Sure.
Those are excellent questions.
Let me hit Lexington first.
So Lexington when we initially bought the asset what we told our investors is that we were buying the Radisson and we were looking at potentially repositioning and rebranding that asset.
So after we acquired it we went through the brand selection process and figured out what the best long-term strategy was for the asset.
That involved in our opinion removing Radisson which occurred by contract last September and repositioning and renovating the hotel to make it a Marriott Autograph.
We saw tremendous upside in the rate differential between the closest Marriott and the Lexington Hotel.
The current rate gap is almost $100.
Obviously there was a loss of market share when we went unbranded last September which was part of the transition that we had to go through to make it a Marriott property.
We do believe based on the rate gap and upside of converting it that we will see tremendous upside.
The hotel we project to do in the low 20s EBITDA next year and to stabilize at 30-plus EBITDA over the next several years as it continues to build traction as a Marriott-branded property.
So that's our strategy.
It's underperformed partly because it had to go unbranded to get to the other side of what we see as a great value creation opportunity and it should be completed this summer.
And I think you'll be very pleased when you see the product and really start seeing the results starting in the back half of this year.
On the 4 pack that we acquired last summer we missed our -- we hit our underwriting on San Diego and Burlington.
We missed our underwriting on -- by about $3 million collectively on D.C.
and Boston.
And that's really -- and we mentioned this on the last call.
D.C.
obviously we had the Sandy and the fiscal cliff.
We also lost some short-term group the government group in the quarter that we didn't anticipate when we underwrote the property.
That was about $1.5 million of the miss.
The other relates to the Boston Hilton.
And as we kind of hurried to transition the property from LXR to Davidson and replace the leadership team the transition caused about 11 points in lost market share and obviously that translated -- the timing of that exact management change was uncertain when we underwrote the asset.
We think we'll recover that but that obviously led to us coming somewhat behind our underwriting for the fourth quarter in Boston.
But if we look forward on the 4 pack the reason we bought those assets and the reason we think they're great not only do they diversify our brand and manager within the portfolio by adding more Westins and Hiltons and more third-party managers but we bought them because we believe they're under-managed and under-invested in.
That doesn't change in 3 months or 6 months but we'll put the capital in this year.
I think we'll realize tremendous upside from this capital investment and from improving the revenue strategies there.
And we see the lost market share and we are confident that with the right strategies recovering that market share with the capital investment and with the right strategies will really allow those properties to perform terrifically over the next several years but it may not be in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us what you think the EBITDA for those 4 hotels -- what it could do this year and maybe next year? We haven't given out specifics for the portfolio.
It's built -- obviously build into our guidance.
We're expecting double-digit RevPAR growth in the first quarter from the 4 assets but we do anticipate renovation disruption at the properties as we invest the capital into them.
Research Division</strong> Has your ultimate underwriting changed at all as a result of the last 6 months? It has not.
I think the outlook for D.C.
is a little bit more hazy than we anticipated last July.
But ultimately we believe in the assets and where they're going to stabilize.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just follow up on -- you mentioned the stock trades at a large discount.
Based on the 2013 earnings it trades about 13x EBITDA which is about where the peer group trades.
So when you say it trades at a large discount it suggests that you think that there's a lot more future earnings upside then there might be elsewhere.
And I guess my question is if that's the case what was the rationale for putting long-term fixed rate debt on the Westin ahead of the repositioning? And also why -- are you considering putting in a share repurchase program given how strong the balance sheet is? All right.
So let me take the second question first.
So the board has had and continues to have extensive conversations about the share repurchase program.
We do think the stock is a good value at today's price.
With that said we're also very mindful and I think that our history has shown that we're very disciplined about keeping a conservative balance sheet.
So I think the -- we are likely to do share repurchase or more likely in the event of asset dispositions and matching that up with a share repurchase.
But obviously the board wants to continually monitor what the stock price is what the opportunity is to maximize the returns for our shareholders.
On the second question I'll let Sean answer that.
Yes Josh.
This is Sean.
The timing of the Westin D.C.
loan was really dictated based on our overall long-range plan and capital structure for the company.
We had an outstanding borrowing on our line of credit which over the long term we want to make sure that we keep as much of our line of credit the dry powder free of the line.
So we viewed the CMBS market at the end of last year and currently for that matter is very attractive.
So locking in long-term debt at sub-4% in lieu in exchange for freeing up the line of credit we thought was the right decision for the company.
Research Division</strong> And should we assume that the line of credit is what's used to fund the $125 million purchase of Times Square next year? We are keeping our line free for that.
That's right.
Your next question comes from Eli Hackel of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question also just dealing with the renovations and the impact.
Clearly this year you gave some guidance.
It seems like it's about a 3% hit to '13 on the RevPAR side.
Can you just help me think about that conceptually in '14 and beyond? Does that mean if the industry is 6% your overall pre-renovation will be 6% and in '14 you would be 9% or maybe just how does that phase in over time as we think what should be an expected snapback from post-renovation? And then just the second question just quickly.
I know you're not a big D.C.
player but have you seen anything in terms of sequestration at all so far would be helpful.
Okay Eli.
On D.C.
we have not seen any evidence of sequester hurting the property specifically.
Obviously today is the first day that a lot of that goes into effect.
In April we'll actually see more of that.
But the property has not reported seeing particular impacts from sequester.
Obviously last year government group was already restrained.
And government business at our hotel in D.C.
is only about 4% and for our portfolio only represents about 2% 2.5% of our total business.
So it's not a huge demand driver.
On the -- Eli this is Sean.
On the disruption in the '14 question I think when you look at our 2013 disruption of the $10 million to $12 million the vast majority of that is going to be the Lexington Hotel.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks the Lexington Hotel we expect to get to plus $20 million next year.
So I think your assumption of a bounceback for '14 is a fair one.
The other item worth noting for 2014 for the portfolio is that we have got great citywide convention activity for 2014.
Our group pace is up 15% plus in 2014 which should be another catalyst for the portfolio to outperform in 2014.
So we really have the post-renovation bounce plus we've got great group exposure in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Mark or Sean this is for you.
Will you just talk about -- you talked about your group pace being up so much in 2014.
What percentage would that represent of the total number of groups you'd probably end up having in the year -- in 2014 at that point? Sure.
Our 2014 group revenues on the books today are about 50% of what was on the books for the entire 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally you talked about New York City a little bit.
As you look at the city this year any thoughts on which quarters are a little bit I suppose -- are likely to be a little bit weaker than the others? Well in our portfolio the first and second quarter is going to be significantly impacted by their innovation disruption for New York City.
So generally speaking we would expect our portfolio to underperform.
To put some numbers around it New York City alone in January and for the first quarter is going to impact our consolidated RevPAR growth by 300 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No I meant more as a city overall not just your portfolio.
Yes it's obviously -- this is Mark.
New York started off relatively strong.
You would expect that Q1 is the weakest so that would be the most affected by supply but it seems to be holding up very well.
The fourth quarter obviously you had the Sandy impact which was both good and bad depending on where you were in the city.
So that may lead to some interesting results as we kind of move through the year.
And then obviously you had the Jewish holidays in September which had some impact and should be a little better in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Pong with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Still on the topic of buybacks.
I know you said a potential buyback program would likely be funded through asset sales.
When you look at pricing in the preferred market these days could you look towards maybe changing your stance on preferreds and issuing some buyback on it? This is Mark.
That's a great question.
The board has been through a number of different scenarios.
Obviously we have a terrific balance sheet.
It's very low risk.
We have a lot of arrows in our quiver that we could.
We don't have any preferred in our capital stack today.
So that is something that the company is evaluating the board's evaluating but we don't have any announcement to make on that today.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Crow with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I want to follow up a little bit on Eli's question which is looking forward to 2014.
Obviously we understand the disruptions this year.
So just again I want to make -- I want to be comfortable that this year -- or this time next year we're not talking about how there's still 25% of that renovation spend to go and it's going to impact the first half of the year or that there's a longer ramp-up post-renovation in some of these assets.
The Hilton Garden Inn opening midyear seems like that should be a bit of a drag on margins as it ramps up.
It takes a while to ramp up and maybe a drag on FFO.
Could you just kind of put us at ease that won't be the issue at this point next year that we'll be talking about this outperformance? And I understand the citywides which are going to benefit a lot of the peers that are down this year versus '14.
So if you could tackle that one.
Sure.
Well Bill let me start with the beginning.
So the majority of the disruption that we're going to experience this year relates to our New York City renovations which are occurring in the first half.
So it's -- as that market runs 90% 96% in our hotels that's where you're seeing the biggest amount of our disruption.
And so that will be well done by the time we kind of move through this year and into 2014 and set up for that easy comp in the beginning half of the year.
The other ones that we have we have D.C.
and San Diego which should start in the fall and be completed in the wintertime which is obviously the lowest season.
We have Minneapolis which should be done in the wintertime.
Those have traditionally if you kind of look at our past history of -- at those hotels during the winter renovations are very manageable because the occupancy levels and the rates are so low in kind of December January February.
So when you think about the bulk of our $10 million to $12 million in disruption most of that is related -- or the majority is related to the New York activity which will be done in the first half of this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the opening of the HGI midyear opening and how much of a drag that could be? Bill this is Sean.
We don't expect that to be a drag on margins at all.
If it opens midyear based on that location and that product type that's going to be margin-accretive for the company.
It should ramp up very very quickly because of the nature of that product.
So we feel comfortable that that should be a positive for our 2014 not a negative.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And positive on an FFO basis as well I guess if you put it on the line.
That helps right? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just -- I was just looking back here.
We launched coverage in October of '09 and I know that's just a random date to use here.
But since that time I think your stock's up just under 8%.
And I looked at the entire universe of lodging REITs and the next worst one was kind of 2x that or almost 3x that and we looked from a total return perspective.
My question is what is -- what are you telling the board is the reason that despite all of your good work that you've done in deleveraging and portfolio improvement why has the Street just not gotten the story? Well I think our strategy and a strategy that the board's endorsed is that we are fundamentally moving early in the cycle to reposition the portfolio by high-quality assets.
There will be some disruptions in '13 particularly as we reposition some of the lower performing assets off the books buy higher performing assets and have to reposition those assets.
And we'll really realize those values as we move into '14 and '15.
So I think everyone's on board for that strategy.
It makes a lot of sense.
Obviously last year during our last earnings call we had to lower the full year forecast which I think has put pressure on where the stock is performing.
So I think as we move through the year and perform well and as these renovations start paying off we expect to outperform over the next 2 years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me just follow up.
Because it feels like we're at least 50% and maybe 60% whatever the number is into the cycle right? We know that funding for new supply growth is starting to loosen up a little bit so as we look out it seems like okay we're in the '15 '16 -- cycle's coming toward an end and maybe you've got a completely different perspective on that but it seems to me that investors make their money early in the cycle and I'm just -- I understand fundamentally outperforming as you get late in the cycle.
But I'm just not sure that that's going to translate into out-return -- outperformance for the shares.
I guess we're going to have to see.
Where are we do you think in the cycle? Well -- we think that 2013 is a good year to invest in our portfolio because we think this will be an extended cycle.
We do think '14 '15 '16 and '17 will be the peak profitability years.
So we want to position the portfolio to maximize the profitability during those years and that's what we're trying to implement in 2013.
So we're really set up for the peak cash flow years.
And doing the right long-term things for the assets and ultimately doing the right long-term things to maximize the value of assets should translate into stock appreciation.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> On your last call you had mentioned that the second half of this year would be a little bit softer on the group front.
How are you guys doing for that I guess in the group -- I guess in the quarter for the quarter group bookings as well as maybe for the next 6 months out? Sure.
This is Sean.
Our group pace compared to where it was last quarter is up -- it's up 4% for 2013 which was approximately 3.5% last quarter.
The trends have continued where the first 2 quarters of the year are very strong in the group pace in the back half of the year is weaker.
But the negative pace that we had in the back half of the year has continued to get closer to positive as we progress.
So we are making progress during those periods.
The other thing worth noting for 2013 is that Boston has a significant impact on our 2013 group booking pace.
Our Boston asset which represents over 20% of our total group revenue is down 10% in pace for '13.
That alone impacts our pace over 300 basis points.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's more maybe you won't I guess get a good group like you had last year but '14 will look much better again? Correct.
And our '14 pace is up over 15% and we have 1/2 of the revenues already on the books for 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of with the Whitley Stephenson [ph] with JMP Securities.
Just going back to a previous question if we could talk a little bit about the significant number of rooms you have coming online in New York post-renovation and maybe just sort of your thoughts on how you see the market differing at the point when those hotels come online versus what we're seeing now? A lot of your peers have had a really good fourth quarter based on New York results and sort of what you see trends in that market specifically moving forward.
Okay.
So our outlook for New York obviously there is supply coming on particularly this year and next year.
I think what the last couple of years have shown us is that New York is very resilient and continues to absorb -- the supply of this demand has been so strong and continues to exceed people's expectations particularly for the very well-located hotels within the city.
So we remain confident that New York will perform very well over the next several years.
Obviously we have the Lexington Hotel which is in the filet of 48th and LAX.
That's a wonderful location.
We feel very confident in the long-term prospects.
That submarket Midtown East has the lowest amount of supply coming into it.
So we feel very good about that and the ability to reposition that asset as a full service hotel and do well in the market and outperform the market over the next several years.
Our 2 other Courtyards also in Midtown one at 48th and Fifth and one at Third and 53rd.
We think those locations are less susceptible to the new supply and should perform very well particularly with the capital upgrades that we're putting into them this year.
And then our 42nd Street Hotel at 42nd and Broadway we're convinced that 7-day a market kind of prime location will allow that hotel to be one of the best-performing hotels on a profit-per-key in New York City when it's done.
So we feel pretty good about the prospects for New York City and I think what we've seen is that New York will continue to surprise on the upside.
Okay.
So I guess for you guys the whole story it's just -- we should expect to see a continuation of supply-demand trends that we've seen and then well locations of your specific assets? Yes obviously there is supply which will put some pressure on rates.
But I think we have unique demand generators particularly at the Lexington and then the renovations in the Courtyards.
This is Sean.
Put some numbers around it very quickly.
New York City metro area is supposed have greater than 6% supply growth in '13 and '14 versus our market tracks within New York are 150 basis points lower in '13 and 300 basis points lower in '14.
So when you look at the numbers provided by the experts our markets do have lower supply.
Now there's still 4.6% and over 3% is still significant supply but that's a much easier hurdle for increased demand to get over.
And we have a follow-up question from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back to the recent hire on Rob Tanenbaum and how that may impact sort of what you're teeing up in terms of sales and portfolio positioning overall? Obviously Rob's coming in and being appointed as COO and EVP of Asset Management.
And that's -- as you discussed and outlined he's got a lot of experience in that area.
So you pointed to sort of the low-hanging fruit in terms of lower RevPAR hotels as being the ones that are ripe for pruning most ripe for pruning in the portfolio it seems.
But will Rob's addition maybe change the character of what may ultimately come for sale and how the portfolio is positioned longer term? Great question.
So let me say a little bit more on Rob.
So as you know the company engaged Ferguson Partners to conduct a nationwide search and our search instruction was to look for a high-impact and game-changing asset management executive.
We interviewed a number of leaders in this industry.
In that process it really became obvious that Rob was the guy for the job and for DiamondRock.
His reputation is tremendous.
He's made an enormous difference at a variety of assets and we're confident that he's going to make a big difference on the profitability of our hotels and the renovations of our hotels.
So we feel great about that hire.
With Rob we will reevaluate the strategic direction of a number of our properties to understand the maximum profits to that we can generate from them and the best time to do the dispositions.
Rob will not be the -- unlike John we're really splitting the roles of COO and asset management as well as from a different role of head of dispositions and acquisitions.
Kind of that CIO and COO will be separated going forward at the company.
So Rob will have a major impact on the strategic direction of individual assets but he will not lead our effort on dispositions and acquisitions and we may have a different take on some of the assets with Rob's voice in the room to make sure we're maximizing the value of each and every hotel.
You have a follow-up question from Josh Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Following up on Bill's questions and comments on stock performance.
I think the current management compensation structure does not have any element of relative stock price performance as a hurdle.
And Mark I know you said on the board is the board considering any change to comp structure for 2013 and beyond to more closely align management and shareholder interests? Yes that's a great question.
So the board at the last board meeting is considering moving to 50% performance relative performance-based stock.
So we'll discuss that as -- obviously when we issue the proxy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one -- just going back to the potential buybacks with asset sale proceeds.
I know you mentioned that was a possibility.
Should we expect you to put a stock repurchase program in place in the near term so that you have the ability to buy back stock when you execute on dispositions? Yes our feeling is we can implement one very quickly within 2 weeks.
We can put a plan in place.
So we're probably more likely to match the implementation closer to an actual disposition if that's the strategy the board employs.
I would now like to turn the call over back to Mark Brugger for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
To everyone on this call we would like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock and we look forward to updating you on the next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter DiamondRock Hospitality Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dominique and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Brugger Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Dominique.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
We would also invite you to review our investor presentation posted on our website at www.drhc.com.
Let me start today by welcoming our new Chief Operating Officer Rob Tanenbaum.
Rob joined the company last month and has already implemented fundamental changes to the asset management function in order to make the most of the internal growth opportunities within the portfolio.
We are fortunate to have added Rob to our team.
Turning to the first quarter.
The favorable trends in lodging fundamentals continued.
Demand was very solid in the quarter with industry RevPAR increasing 6.4% mostly from rate.
Despite negative headlines about the sequester and overburdened consumers our portfolio growth has passed prior peak levels of occupancy.
Several key corollaries to lodging demand are also improving.
In April the Consumer Confidence Index increased significantly to 68% from 62% in the prior month.
Last Friday we had an unexpectedly good jobs report with a net creation of 165 000 new jobs to bring the unemployment rate down to a 4-year low.
It's also important to note that this increasing demand is bolstered by terrific supply picture.
New hotel supply is only expected to increase by 1% in 2013 and 1.5% in 2014.
Both are well below the long-term average of 2%.
Overall we feel very good about the positive dynamics of the lodging industry and it's quite apparent that 2013 will be another good year.
Before we review our results for the quarter I want to take a minute to review our strategy to drive shareholder value.
As you know the company made great strides repositioning our portfolio by acquiring hotels in premiere gateway markets with outsized growth potential and disposing of non-core hotels located in secondary markets with lower growth potential.
We also increased the number of hotels operated by independent managers which now represent close to 40% of our portfolio.
The successful execution of this strategy resulted in a $16 increase in portfolio RevPAR and a 240 basis point increase in hotel adjusted EBITDA margins.
In short our portfolio quality and internal growth prospects have never been better.
Our acquisitions have consisted of hotels with value-creation opportunities because of the ability to rebrand invest incremental capital or change management and we are excited about the opportunities these present.
To take advantage of that upside we are in the midst of a $140 million capital expenditure program as well as making brand and management team changes at a number of the hotels.
While 2013 will be impacted by renovation disruption and in many ways can be characterized as a repositioning year it will lead to sustained future growth opportunities.
Sean will go into more detail on these projects in a moment.
Importantly our projects are progressing as planned.
And as expected we have some heavy lifting to do particularly in the second quarter.
In summary the company's 2013 priorities are threefold: One focus on internal growth opportunities; two explore the sale of select non-core assets; and three remain highly disciplined in allocating each dollar of capital.
As we look past 2013 we expect the successful execution of our capital renovation plan to position DiamondRock well to outperform in 2014 and beyond.
In other words we are setting the table in 2013 for the future.
Now let's get into the numbers.
The first quarter results were in line with our expectations and reflect strong lodging fundamentals.
We increased RevPAR adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO during the period despite our operating results being impacted by more than 24 000 displaced rooms at our 3 New York City hotels that are currently under renovation.
Excluding hotels under renovation RevPAR grew 5.6% and EBITDA margins expanded 93 basis points resulting in an impressive 16.5% hotel adjusted EBITDA growth.
For the entire portfolio including properties under renovation RevPAR grew 2% and the company generated adjusted EBITDA of $34.3 million.
Adjusted FFO per share was $0.14.
In a moment Sean will get into more detail on the operating results and capital plans.
But before turning the call over I would like to spend a few minutes highlighting some of our significant recent wins.
First the Lexington Hotel in New York City.
We continue to be thrilled about the growth potential for this hotel.
There are several floors back in the room inventory and the renovated rooms in the building already command a $35 rate premium even before bringing conversion.
Second we are confident that we can add a lot of value to the Westin Washington D.C.
City Center hotel through our comprehensive repositioning plan.
Meeting planners are already enthusiastic about booking post-renovation.
The promise of the renovation resulted in the hotel booking $1 million of group revenue during March alone.
The hotel is positioned for growth as this work concludes with the 2014 group booking pace up 56%.
Third the Westin San Diego is benefiting from our new sales strategies.
First quarter RevPAR index was 125% up almost 18 percentage points.
We are also benefiting from the newly opened $300 million federal courthouse with law firm-related business doubling in production.
Fourth the Boston Hilton is beginning to gain traction from the management changes we made at the end of last year.
As we noted on the last call we replaced virtually the entire ops team.
In the first quarter the hotel gained a strong 7.5 percentage points of market share.
More importantly the group pace for 2014 is up an amazing 60% versus the same time last year.
Lastly we are happy to report that construction is progressing very well on the Times Square Hilton Garden Inn which is now over 20 stories out of the ground and remains on schedule for completion in mid-2014.
This 282-room hotel is at 42nd and Broadway the heart of Times Square.
Our cost of $450 000 per key is fixed and not subject to construction cost overruns.
When completed we are confident that this will be the single-best located select service hotel in Manhattan and at a price that is $100 000 to $150 000 per key below current market value.
With that I'll hand the call over to Sean who will discuss our operating results capital program and our outlook for 2013.
Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our first quarter results I want to highlight that the quarterly comparisons for our Marriott-managed hotels are impacted by Marriott International's recent calendar year conversion.
First quarter results for the Marriott hotels includes 7 more days than the 2012 first quarter.
Please note that this will only impact our quarterly comparison since as a REIT we have always reported annual results on a calendar year.
In order to provide investors with comparable operating data Marriott provided restated 2012 revenues and RevPAR but did not provide data to enable us to restate the first quarter 2012 P&amp;L.
Therefore our reported first quarter comparisons for Marriott-managed hotels will compare to period from January 1 2013 to March 31 2013 to the period from January 1 2012 to March 23 2012.
To the extent that there are meaningful differences between the comparisons both the years will be discussed.
We understand that this change may create confusion.
Now let's turn to the first quarter numbers.
Our results were in line with internal expectations.
Total revenues increased 8.5% or 3.2% on a comparable basis.
And RevPAR grew 2% or 1.8% on a comparable basis.
Despite modest top line growth our hotels did a fantastic job of preserving the bottom line with hotel adjusted EBITDA margins only decreasing 38 basis points.
Hotel adjusted EBITDA increased 6.6% from the comparable period of 2012 to $38 million.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled $34.3 million an increase of approximately 9% from the first quarter of 2012.
As expected our first quarter was significantly impacted by the renovations of the Lexington Hotel Courtyard Midtown East and the Courtyard Fifth Avenue.
In a few minutes I will provide the current status of these renovations.
The renovation disruption was the result of decreased occupancy as more than 24 000 rooms or 20% of available inventory were taken out of service.
The good news is that the hotels were still able to achieve mid-single-digit rate growth while under the knife.
In total renovation disruption had a 360 basis point impact on first quarter RevPAR growth and 131 basis point impact on hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion.
If the 3 hotels were excluded from our first quarter results our RevPAR growth was 5.6% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expand -- expansion of 93 basis points.
We continue to expect $10 million to $12 million of full year 2013 renovation disruption.
We expect significant disruption during the second quarter moderate disruption in the third quarter and lesser disruption in the fourth quarter.
We were pleased with our food and beverage performance during the quarter.
Our healthy F&amp;B results were driven by a 26% increase in banquet revenues.
Specifically the Chicago Marriott contributed to the strong quarter with banquet revenues increasing over 60%; and Frenchman's Reef where banquet revenues increased 23%.
Most importantly our group revenue per room night increased over 9%.
Now let me spend a few minutes discussing the individual hotel results.
New York City continued to surprise to the upside.
As I mentioned earlier our 3 hotels under renovation were able to grow rate despite being under renovation.
In addition the Hilton Garden Inn Chelsea our only New York hotel not under renovation delivered outstanding RevPAR growth of close to 16%.
Our results continue to outperform during the quarter led by The Lodge at Sonoma with approximately 30% RevPAR growth.
Sonoma was able to drive business transient production from the strength of San Francisco.
The hotel also benefited from short-term group and transient pickup from a local competitor being under renovation.
The Vail Marriott also outperformed with RevPAR increasing over 14% during the quarter.
Frenchman's Reef also achieved 14% RevPAR growth and a $3.3 million or almost 20% increase in revenues.
We were also pleased with our first quarter in Chicago.
Traditionally a seasonally slow quarter in the market.
The Chicago Conrad gained market share and generated 11% RevPAR growth during the quarter.
Our results at the Chicago Marriott benefited from strong group production in both rooms and F&amp;B.
First quarter RevPAR increased 16.7% or close to 8% on a comparable basis.
The Chicago Marriott achieved over 50% profit flow-through as a result of the group production.
Another strong performer was the JW Marriott Denver Cherry Creek with first quarter RevPAR growth of 15.9%.
The hotel benefited from its superb location within the city's high-end Cherry Creek neighborhood.
The hotel's revenue strategy of aggressively pushing corporate rate was a huge success during the quarter as business transient revenues increased 14%.
Another hotel worth highlighting is the San Diego Westin with 15.6% RevPAR growth.
The hotel continues to gain traction from recent sales and marketing initiatives and incremental demand from the newly-opened $300 million federal courthouse.
Finally the recent renovation allowed the Alpharetta Marriott to achieve 10% RevPAR growth during the first quarter.
Boston Westin's quarter was negatively impacted by a difficult prior year comparison.
Despite this headwind the hotel did a terrific job by achieving hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 91 basis points on 2.5% RevPAR growth.
The Westin D.C.
benefited from the Presidential inauguration with first quarter RevPAR growth of 8%.
We expect moderate RevPAR growth from the Washington D.C.
market during the balance of 2013.
Although sequester seems to be less impactful to our hotels given its prime location.
As introduced during the last earnings call we plan to invest approximately $140 million in the portfolio in 2013.
Our cost estimates have not changed from the year-end call.
We expect to fund the capital projects as follows: $60 million from existing cash reserves which are classified as restricted cash on our balance sheet; and the remaining balance from corporate cash about half of which will come from excess hotel cash flow and the balance from excess cash flows proceeds from recent financing.
We continue to believe that the successful execution of our 2013 capital plan will be a major catalyst for earnings growth in 2014 and beyond.
We are confident in our ability to deliver long-term outperformance by making the right investments to harness internal growth opportunities.
I want to highlight the current status of our most significant projects.
We are currently completing the renovation of the Lexington Hotel in New York which we believe is the single-biggest opportunity for sustained growth in our portfolio.
We currently expect the renovation to cost $45 million and the conversion to a Marriott Autograph to occur late this summer.
The final rooms will be completed in the third quarter.
Marriott will provide over $4 million of key money that we will use to offset the cost of the renovation.
The lobby will be completed within a month and renovation work has started on 14 of the 28 floors.
We are pleased to report that approximately 140 renovated rooms are back in service and commanding a $35 rate premium.
We are still in the middle of this exciting project and we'll provide an update during the next earnings call.
After renovation and rebranding to Marriott's Autograph Collection we expect to realize significant rate gains with the hotel generating hotel adjusted EBITDA of $20 million during 2014 and ramping to over $30 million over the next few years.
This will be a multiyear growth catalyst for DiamondRock.
We expect the bulk of the disruption brand relaunching costs and other transition costs to be behind us by this fall.
The $12 million renovation of our Manhattan Courtyard will be substantially complete by the end of the second quarter including the addition of 5 new guestrooms at the Courtyard Midtown East which will cost less than $1 million.
We expect these new keys will add approximately $2.5 million to the hotel's net asset value.
We are already experiencing positive customer reaction from the renovation.
We were able to push rate an incremental $15 on a renovated King room during the week and $10 on a renovated Double Doubles on the weekend.
We are finalizing the scope and timing of the $60 million renovation of the Westin Washington D.C.
and the $14 million renovation of the Westin San Diego.
We expect the renovations to commence during the fourth quarter of 2013.
Finally we are planning the renovations of the Hilton Boston and Hilton Burlington.
The renovation's scope and costs are expected to be consistent with our underwriting.
The renovations are expected to start during the seasonally soft winters which should minimize disruption.
As we look ahead we have great conviction that our 2013 capital investment will lead to outperformance in 2014 and beyond.
We are reaffirming our full year 2013 guidance.
It is worth noting that our 2013 results will be impacted by 2 major items: First and most impactful we still expect $10 million to $12 million of renovation disruption during 2013 which will reduce annual RevPAR growth by 3 percentage points.
Second our 2013 group segment will be impacted by the decrease in city-wides in Boston and Minneapolis which are expected to have a 50 basis points impact on our RevPAR growth.
For the full year 2013 we continue to expect portfolio RevPAR growth of 1% to 3% which incorporates 3 percentage points of renovation disruption adjusted EBITDA of $195 million to $205 million which reflects $10 million to $12 million of EBITDA renovation disruption and adjusted FFO per share of $0.70 to $0.74.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet and capital allocation.
We were active in the financing markets during the first quarter when we raised $102 million through 2 nonrecourse secured loans.
These loans have 10-year terms and sub-4% interest rates.
The company has raised more than $175 million of 10-year secured debt since December all at rates below 4%.
These transactions lowered the weighted average interest rate on our mortgage debt from 5.5% to 5.2%.
We have consistently maintained a simple and low-risk balance sheet with virtually no corporate debt.
We currently have $1.1 billion of mortgage debt no outstanding borrowings on our line of credit and 13 of our 27 hotels unencumbered by debt.
To give you an idea of how much borrowing power that provides the company those 13 unencumbered hotels are expected to generate over $80 million of hotel adjusted EBITDA during 2013.
We expect to end 2013 with net debt to EBITDA under 5x.
We believe conservative leverage is essential to delivering superior shareholder returns across the lodging cycle.
I'll now turn it back over to Mark for some final thoughts.
Mark? We are very excited about the future of DiamondRock with 27 hotels concentrated in perennially strong great -- gateway markets as well as prime resort locations the portfolio quality and long-term prospects have never been better.
We believe our portfolio contains tremendous internal growth opportunities and that our ability to realize this potential will lead to outperformance in coming years.
Additionally based on convention calendars group for our portfolio is likely to increase moderately in 2013.
The company successfully booked over $19 million of incremental 2013 group business during the quarter which is 10% more than was booked during the same period of 2012.
It is worth noting that the incremental group revenue was booked at a 10% higher rate.
Our current 2013 group pace is up 3.1% with 82% of forecasted 2013 group revenues already on the books.
Excluding the Boston Westin which is facing a difficult year at the BCEC our 2013 group booking pace is up 7.1% driven by a 2.9% increase in rate and a 4.2% increase in rooms sold.
More importantly the convention calendars are trending dramatically better in several of our main markets in 2014.
Boston alone will be a big driver of growth next year.
Our 2014 group pace is up an impressive 12%.
In conclusion our team remains committed to delivering shareholder value and believes that internal growth opportunities will be the main driver of DiamondRock's strong relative performance over the next few years.
With that we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Will Marks of JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I guess I want to first ask about -- just looking at general Smith Travel data trailing 28 days in the last week.
I mean it looks like things have slowed a little bit.
Just any thoughts on that and kind of also expectations this year maybe on a quarterly basis if there are any comps that are tougher than others second third fourth quarter? This is Mark.
We're obviously watching the numbers everyday and every week.
We're not seeing a slowing in a number of our markets.
I mean obviously we have a portfolio of 27 hotels so it's not representative of the whole nation.
But I would say overall we're not seeing trends.
We're seeing group continue to book at a decent clip.
We are seeing some higher-rated group come back this year which is a very positive trend.
Transient seems to be solid and hanging in there in most of our markets.
So I would say so far we're not seeing any indications of slowing at our particular hotels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at New York in particular I know you've got that renovation disruption.
You've got what's going on at the Courtyard and obviously your bigger hotel but do you see -- and this is the market where supply concerns -- where there are supply concerns of anywhere do you see it impacting the market this year? Yes it's interesting because you do have the new supply coming in which is sizable which we don't think will have a huge impact on occupancy but obviously hurts the ability to push rate.
The big offset so far this year has been the FEMA and the Sandy-related business.
You're talking about a $50 billion government stimulus program to the Greater New Jersey New York area.
So it's difficult to know exactly how that plays out for the full year kind of this incremental demand from that injection of demand as well as the counterbalance of the supply.
We're also -- on the positive in New York we're seeing more inbound travel to New York international inbound travel which is increasing and may help offset the supply.
But it's difficult to know.
I think everyone was surprised by the strength in New York Q1.
We're seeing that continue in April in our hotels particularly at the Chelsea which isn't being renovated so that's really the best gauge.
So fourth quarter will be I think very telling for us of our ability to push rate particularly given the Sandy comparison and the supply.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question.
Looking at your guidance for the year the RevPAR range can you just give us a sense or maybe you don't want to.
But second third and fourth quarter how do you expect RevPAR to come out approximately? Sure.
Will this is Sean.
We obviously have not given quarterly guidance.
So I'll give -- the implied guidance for the back half of the year is consistent with our full year guidance because we came in right down the middle of our expectations for the first quarter.
So with respect to what the balance of the year will be impacted by I think the renovation disruption is worth noting because we expect the bulk of the renovation disruption to occur in the second quarter.
So you should expect our second quarter to be impacted by renovation.
And then the third point is our calendar comparison they're going to be difficult for the entire year this year because of the shift in Marriott's calendar.
So it's going to be difficult to gauge a lot from our individual quarters.
And our full year stays the same but the quarters are going to create a little bit of comparability issues within the models.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Hightower of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was appreciative of the clarification on the guidance because I was wondering about the back half of the year as well.
But my second question actually if Rob is in the room I'd like him to answer.
But if not either of you guys are just fine.
But you highlighted some of the potential changes that might occur with the new COO in the mix.
I think you highlighted brand and management changes at some of the properties.
But given that the CapEx budget and the plans haven't really changed over the last few months can you sort of give a little more clarification as to what changes you would expect in the portfolio with Rob in place? Rich it's Rob Tanenbaum.
It's nice to speak with you.
Research Division</strong> Nice to speak with you.
Thank you.
I'm thrilled to have joined the team at DiamondRock.
And with over 15 years of asset management experience I've developed a unique asset management approach which has led to some remarkable improvements in hotel profitability.
I've started to implement this approach at DiamondRock and expect to achieve earnings upside in our portfolio using the same techniques that I've employed over the years.
The system's focused on 3 core tenets of asset management: Revenue management cost containment and capital allocation.
I'm extremely proud of the great professional relationships that I have developed over the years with many of the key players and our hotel operators.
I'm also a big believer in accountability as the key to driving operating results.
In my first 6 weeks on the job I have already made changes to the asset management group.
For example we brought an in-house head of capital expenditures with over 30-years experience.
Most recently as a consultant with Goldman Sachs.
This individual is bringing a new level of precision and execution capability to our platform.
At the same time it will allow the asset managers to focus their attention on maximizing hotel profitability through implementing revenue-maximization strategies and cost-containment plans.
I'm excited about the opportunity to drive above-market growth in hotel profits over the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My next question guys concerns non-core asset sales.
I'm wondering if you can give an update on maybe some of the airport properties that you guys have penciled in as candidates for that.
Sure Rich this is Mark.
Overall we're really happy with our portfolio of hotels the DiamondRock collection.
However as we mentioned in the call consistent with our strategy of upgrading the portfolio we continue to look at monetizing some of our lower growth a few lower growth assets and redeploying that capital into better value-creation opportunities.
We're currently focused on a couple of potential sales right now.
But our corporate policy is not to talk specifically about any one disposition until it's probable.
At this time we do not have any dispositions that meet that definition but we are actively looking at monetizing a couple of assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay Mark.
And then last question I'll hop out of the queue.
Look the balance sheet's in very good shape and you did a couple of mortgage financings in the quarter.
But I noticed that you do have some high-cost debt on the Courtyard Midtown East and I don't know if the renovations factor into this but is there a refi opportunity there before it matures in 2014? Rich we have -- we run on a quarterly basis the defeasance cost of each one of our mortgage debt and it's pretty cost prohibitive to do that.
But we do look at all of our options.
I think when you look at our capital structure one of the core tenets that we have is to maintain as much flexibility as we can.
That includes having nothing outstanding on our line to mitigate the risk of refinancing risk and to deal with our -- not only the funding of the Times Square development in '14 but also our '15 and '16 debt maturities.
We also have the ability to refinance one of our '13 unencumbered assets as well as -- if we're successful in selling non-core assets we have capacity from there.
So we feel very good about where our balance sheet sits today.
But that is a question that we wrestle with internally whether we could take advantage of defeasance.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just circling back.
I know you said not too much color on the disposition side but what are your plans for reinvestment? What opportunities are you seeing out there? I know you've got the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square deal next year is there anything else that you're seeing in terms of opportunities? This is Mark.
We made a decision -- just kind of stepping back DiamondRock made a decision to be an early mover and buy aggressively early in the lodging cycle.
So we've done over $1 billion of hotel acquisitions in the last 3 years.
At this time really we're focused on creating the most shareholder value by mining our internal growth prospects.
And that's our -- currently our highest priority.
We have been monitoring the acquisition market.
Obviously we're looking at every deal that comes in the door.
But frankly there's been nothing compelling that's come through the door so far this year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then turning to the disruption the $10 million to $12 million.
How much of that occurred in the first quarter? And sort of how you expect the balance of that to play out over the next several quarters? Sure.
Austin about $3 million impacted our first quarter.
And then we expect the balance of the year to really -- the second quarter will probably be the most impactful and the most significant although we do expect moderate disruption in the third quarter and less disruption in the fourth quarter.
We have not provided specific quarterly guidance.
So we won't give you a breakout of that number but we continue to believe that the annual disruption is $10 million to $12 million.
And what we can confirm is $3 million of that was -- impacted our first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Attie of Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the quarter looking at the Blackstone asset that seems like in Boston and in D.C.
RevPAR was up really nicely but EBITDA and EBITDA margins were both down.
Can you just explain what happened at those hotels? Sure.
The Hilton Boston property is now a union hotel.
And at the same time last year it was not.
And so this is in our underwriting but it shows the reflection Q1 over last year.
And then Josh this is Sean.
On the Westin D.C.
we got a reassessment on property taxes which had a pretty big impact on margins year-over-year which is skewing the numbers.
Research Division</strong> Will that impact the numbers for the balance of this year? It will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was that factored in when you bought the hotel? It was.
Research Division</strong> And then also you mentioned that group bookings at Lexington and Boston seem like they were up a lot which has positive implications for next year and the year after.
Can you remind us what percentage of the overall business at those 2 hotels are group? For the Lexington? I think Josh this is Mark.
We mentioned that the Boston Westin is up over 40% -- for about 40% for next year.
That's obviously mostly group well over 50%.
The Hilton Boston is also up similarly between about 50%.
And then the Westin D.C.
is up over 50%.
For the Hilton and for the Westin Washington D.C.
that's probably 25% to 30% of the business at those 2 hotels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a couple more questions.
On asset sales can you just give us some sense of -- I know you don't want to talk about individual assets but some sense of the dollar volume that you have either on the market or that you could complete this year? Looking at what we're looking at monetizing now it will be less than $150 million.
But we -- yes we have a lot of price discipline.
And I think asset prices are appreciating over the next year so we have a lot of integrity of what prices we'll let the -- let these hotels go at but that's kind of the range somewhere below that amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more question on the balance sheet.
You clearly like where rates are today.
You've done some long term asset-level financing.
Have you reconsidered issuing preferreds where you could obviously lock-in rates forever? Sure Josh preferreds are one of the tools that we evaluate as an opportunity.
We currently like the simplicity of our existing capital structure and we believe that sub-4% 10-year debt is very attractive.
It's as attractive as it's been since we formed the company in 2004 and that's the choice that we made.
Although we do evaluate preferreds on a very frequent basis we just have never gotten excited enough about them to make that move because they do represent a level of corporate debt.
We strive to have a balance sheet that has no corporate debt and so we prefer the secured execution.
Research Division</strong> So at this point it's fair to say they're off the table or are they being considered? They're always being considered but I would say that they are lower odds for that execution.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker of MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up to Josh's question with regards to the Blackstone portfolio.
Can you just give us a rundown of how those properties have performed relative to your underwriting? I mean it looks like over the past 3 quarters the Boston Westin is down $1 million in adjusted EBITDA and I think D.C.
is down $1.7 million or so in year-over-year adjusted EBITDA.
I know you bought the assets at a 14.4x 2012 EBITDA multiple.
So I'm just wondering was that -- were you underwriting this type of EBITDA decline and indicating a higher multiple on 2013 numbers? Ryan this is Mark.
I'll take that one.
So if you think about the 4 assets Burlington's clearly exceeded our original underwriting.
San Diego is performing very well particularly in Q1.
So that's actually at or slightly above our underwriting.
The Boston Hilton which we obviously acquired last July a couple of major things going on there.
One we are getting the union.
It's converted to a union so we're getting that impact wage parity which will burn off the third quarter of this year.
So the year-over-year is tough.
That was built into our underwriting.
The opportunity we saw at that hotel was really to get rid of the existing management replace the entire property level team and bring in new management.
We saw a lot of upside in the revenue potential of that hotel particularly with 66 suites.
The transition in the fourth quarter was I think a little tougher than we originally anticipated.
We lost over 20 points of market share as part of that transition.
Now that's a temporary phenomena.
And as we stated earlier in the call we're up 7.5 points of market share in Q1 alone.
Although we got a long way to go to get back to parity.
But that's really the upside as the new management team kicks in there.
So I would say Q4 the transition was more than we originally underwrote but we still believe the potential is there because of the lost market share.
Shows you that that's kinds of a temporary phenomenon.
D.C.
is a little bit different.
D.C.
has its own special piece.
2 things going on there.
The upside and the value-creation opportunity is really the capital and the renovation.
So our underwriting the big growth there is post-renovation.
And as we mentioned just telling the meeting planners about the renovation we booked $1 million of incremental business in March alone.
So that one I would say D.C.
was a little softer we anticipated.
Certainly we didn't factor in the Sandy impact in the fourth quarter of D.C.
where RevPAR was down over 30% for that week.
But D.C -- D.C.
our bet is in our underwriting is really based on the post-renovated product.
So we feel very good about that potential still.
And as we mentioned group booking is incredibly strong for that hotel for next year as one indicia of the upside that's going to be realized there.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And I understand you guys aren't buying these assets for year 1 returns you're taking a longer-term view.
I just wanted to get some color on that.
And then in terms of a modeling perspective as we think about these assets it looks like you guys are expecting all of those assets to go under renovation late this year start of next year.
Is it following that renovation that we'll start to see some of that growth that you guys believe is embedded in these assets? So again let me just walk through.
So Burlington the renovation won't be -- it will be good.
There is not as much upside from that capital.
Although we're talking about building some new meeting space to take advantage of the [indiscernible].
So that one will continue to tick along.
The Hilton Boston is going to be less about the capital.
I think you'll start seeing significant rate growth as our marketing strategies are implemented with the new team.
The Westin D.C.
will go under renovation probably starting in October of this year.
It's really going to be post that renovation which we'll wrap up during this winter where you start seeing what we hope will be the big gains next year.
Somewhat market dependent but certainly above market growth.
And then San Diego will have the renovation but you can see already what the growth in the first quarter the sales strategy change there is making an impact.
But the dramatic change in the lobby both -- at both Westins I think will lead to significant upside.
While we -- our underwriting has for those assets is getting to kind of mid-40s EBITDA for the portfolio over the next couple of years which should outpace certainly the industry growth and the balance of our portfolio.
And Ryan this is Sean.
So I think from a shape of the curve perspective you should expect consistent EBITDA year-over-year from '12 to '13 with the ramp really starting in '14 and into '15 getting to that mid-40s number that Mark mentioned.
So this year will be relatively flat year-over-year maybe slight growth in the portfolio for those 4 assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful color.
And then one more kind of modeling question.
I don't know if you can give me any color Sean but in the quarter you guys obviously had a $6 million benefit on taxes.
Your full year tax expense guidance is unchanged.
Can you give us an idea in terms of how we might -- how we should look at that over the remaining 3 quarters? Is it going to be lopsided to one quarter or another et cetera? Yes a lot of the taxes is seasonality Ryan because of the way the leases are structured.
So we generally almost always have a significant tax benefit in the first quarter as you can see relative to last year.
And it moves more into an expense position as the year goes on.
So the fourth quarter would be where it really shifts to an expense just because of the seasonality.
So I would have it modeling where you should expect probably second quarter I believe we'll have a small expense.
Third quarter tends to be closer to a benefit but all within the rounding.
And then the fourth quarter it tends to be an expense which gets us to the full year expense guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm looking at the Frenchman's hotel.
Last year was hurt by the lack of travel subsidies towards the end of the year.
Is that looking like a one-off event and they should be fine this year? Wes it's Rob Tanenbaum.
We think there's a complete amount of upside for this property.
And it reminds me of when I was involved with the Aruba Marriott and the potential that we received we realized there.
So we do see quite a bit of upside potential in Frenchman's.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay but the subsidies should be there the whole year? And I know -- anything going on at the end of the year like last year? Yes they're still doing marketing from the tourism board and so we believe that we will be able to work with that number yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the Lexington Hotel.
How should we model that one I guess for stabilization? Maybe a lower initial yield in '14 and then a full stabilization in 2015? Wes this is Mark.
So the Lexington Hotel obviously we have an enormous amount of impact this year.
Next year our underwriting I'll give you that guidance would be kind of $20 million a little over $20 million and then ramping up to the low kind of $30 million range.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that will be in '15 you think or '16? Probably '15.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sean do you have an estimate of the RevPAR growth that you fully adjust for the change in the reporting that Marriott had? For the quarter? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's 1.8% versus 2%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other quick one.
Do you guys have any plans to change the managers at your hotels that are performing below the performance targets in the management agreement? We are -- well Rob's been on board for all of 6 weeks so we are currently evaluating several management changes at the properties.
But we want to make sure that Rob has time to get up to speed to make sure we're making the appropriate changes and taking advantage of his expertise before we actually pull the trigger on this.
Your next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Mark this question is for you.
When you look across your portfolio and take maybe a 5-year view from here on you've renovated a substantial portion of your portfolio already.
How much of these kind of disruptions should we expect over the next several years? I mean are you pretty much done with all the major capital expenditure plans at this point in time in your portfolio as it exists today? That's a great question.
Obviously we put in over -- in the last 5 years we've spent well over $300 million on our properties.
We're embarking on $140 million right now.
This is the renovation disruption and immediate needs.
This will be -- this $140 million program represents about 1/3 of our portfolio by EBITDA that we're renovating currently.
So we don't anticipate significant disruption or any new -- currently any new renovations to be announced for 2014.
So expect 2014 to be a very clean year as we complete these up.
I'm sure as we get to '15 and '16 there are always room cycles and other things that we'll have to evaluate in making sure that we're keeping pace with the market.
But we don't have anything on the table currently.
Research Division</strong> So when you look beyond 2014 you're not envisioning as the portfolio stands today maybe another $130 million or $140 million of spend say in '15 or '16 at this point? Well if you think about our program that we're currently embarked what we did strategically is take advantage of early mover buy a lot of repositioning assets.
And so if you think about the majority of the capital that we're putting in right now it's really related to the repositioning of recent acquisitions.
So we're not forecasting being a large acquirer over the next couple of years so we won't have those.
But as Rob gets through these and if we see value-add opportunities that view may change for '15 '16 if there's a lot of upside.
But currently what we're anticipating is that we'll get through '13 we'll have a good '14 and then we'll have to evaluate the properties in the future.
And you have a follow-up question from the line of Joshua Attie of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow-up on 2 things that you said earlier.
I guess first why did the Hilton Boston need to go union if it wasn't union previously? Josh this is Mark.
They had signed the neutrality in the union agreement before we actually acquired it about 2 months before we actually acquired it.
And the reason why union is because the wages really that was set by Columbia Sussex when they owned it were substantially below market.
So that was built into our underwriting obviously we would have probably paid more if it was non-union.
But that occurred before our watch.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us some sense of what the incremental cost would have been on a full year basis last year or a full year basis this year? Josh the incremental cost from primarily work rules and getting up to market was about $1.2 million per year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also the same for the tax assessment on the D.C.
property.
Can you give us a sense for what the annualized impact of that is? Bear with me a second Josh on that one.
Why don't we take that one offline Josh? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry it's about $0.5 million Josh.
Research Division</strong> For the full year? The full year.
And we have a follow-up question from the line of Rich Hightower of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> One other hiring question.
I think you guys had mentioned a while ago you were looking to bring on a CIO maybe towards the end of this year.
And I'm wondering if you can provide an update there please? Sure this is Mark.
As you know we decided to split -- change the structure of the company and split the COO and CIO position.
On the CIO we plan as we mentioned last call to begin the process later this year.
We don't see acquisitions as the top priority near term because we see the real catalyst for our stock focusing on these internal growth opportunities.
But our plan is to have a CIO in place by the end of this year.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for any closing remarks.
Thank you Dominique.
To everyone on this call we would like to express our continued appreciation for your interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
Also I would like to remind listeners that the company has scheduled an Investor and Analyst Day on September 10 in New York City where we will offer tours through some of our renovated hotels to showcase the upside potential.
We look forward to seeing you all at that event.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tawanda and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Brugger Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Tawanda.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I am joined by Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
Let me start the call today by stating what is already apparent in the industry data.
The favorable trends in lodging fundamentals continued in the second quarter.
Demand was very solid increasing over 2%.
Demand helped push industry RevPAR up a healthy 5% with the majority of the increase coming from favorable rate expansion.
At the same time new hotel supply remain muted with less than 1% growth in the quarter.
While there are some macro challenges ahead such as continued sequestration the major corollaries for lodging demand growth are all positive.
In particular there are encouraging trends in employment consumer sentiment and corporate investment.
Based on this data as well as constrained supply we believe that attractive lodging fundamentals will persist not only for the rest of 2013 but more than likely for the next several years.
At DiamondRock we continued to execute on our overall game plan for this cycle.
As you know we were aggressive in buying early in the cycle with a focus on gateway markets and value-add opportunities.
Simultaneously we upgraded our portfolio by selling slower growth non-core assets.
In 2013 the company's focus is on unleashing those value-add opportunities within the portfolio.
We intend to accomplish this through a combination of major capital initiatives to upgrade the hotels and asset management best practices.
On that last point Rob Tanenbaum our recently appointed COO has made great progress implementing his playbook for asset management best practices in order to maximize the potential from the portfolio.
We believe that our strategy is setting DiamondRock up as a compelling multiyear growth story.
In the second quarter the portfolio delivered solid results with many of our hotels gaining market share as our asset management initiatives began to gain traction.
Our hotels outperformed in several important markets including: San Diego Washington D.C.
Boston Denver and Chicago.
Excluding hotels under renovation the portfolio achieved an occupancy level of 81.4% which is a second quarter record for DiamondRock.
Moreover in the second quarter the portfolio again excluding the 3 hotels under renovation turned in an impressive RevPAR growth of 6.7% and EBITDA profit margin expansion of 130 basis points.
These results exceeded our expectations.
While we anticipate the strength in the transient segments the group's strength in the quarter surprised to the upside.
Importantly multiple segments performed well and positive mix shift among segments occurred in the quarter.
Excluding the hotels under renovation business transient revenue increased over 11% and second quarter group revenues grew approximately 15% which was led by outperformance at the Westin Boston and the Chicago Marriott.
To give you a sense of group strength we sold close to 33 000 more group room nights in this second quarter.
Moreover in the quarter -- for the quarter pickup was up 46% 46% higher than last year.
Already we have about 92% of our forecasted group business under contract for the balance of this year.
Although the city-wide calendars are more difficult there are markets for the second half of the year.
And the 2014 group story is shaping up quite well.
In the second quarter we picked up $12.6 million of group bookings for 2014.
The pace for next year is up 9.5%.
Importantly we are also seeing strength in the group rate.
When we reported last quarter group rate for 2014 was up only 1.9% and it is now up 5.4%.
So we are starting to take advantage of pricing power as convention calendars gets more favorable in key markets like Boston.
Clearly our portfolio concentration is helping us outpace national trends on the group segment.
While Sean will get it into more detail in a moment I wanted to briefly address our $140 million renovation program.
Overall we remain extremely excited about the upside in this program and we are pleased with our progress to date.
The program includes transformational renovations of the Lexington Hotel and our 2 recently acquired Westins in Washington D.C.
and San Diego.
Additionally the program includes upgrade renovations at other hotels that will enable them to gain market share.
A prime example of that is the 2 Marriott Courtyards in Manhattan.
We're happy to report that the Courtyard renovations are complete and look great.
We believe the renovations have added value to the hotels both because it will enable them to modestly gain share and because we were able to add 5 new guestrooms from previously non-revenue producing space.
Moreover there are already early signs of success.
One very encouraging data point to consider is that the Courtyard Fifth Avenue's comparable RevPAR grew over 20% in June the first full month after renovation.
The Lexington Hotel in Midtown Manhattan made tremendous progress this quarter and represents the company's most dynamic growth catalyst for the next several years.
The conversion to Marriott's Autograph Collection is scheduled to occur before the end of this month.
The renovated product is already receiving tremendous feedback from current guests who are willing to pay a $35 premium for renovated rooms.
The reaction from corporate clients has also been encouraging with more than 75 potential accounts touring the partially renovated hotel this summer.
We recently signed up a variety of prime financial services companies for post conversion at solid rates.
One last interesting stat on Lexington.
While we have just been added to the Marriott reservation system the initial rates for rooms booked through that system for this fall is over $285 that's a terrific start.
Year-to-date and not unexpectedly we have incurred significant disruption as a result of the renovation at our 3 New York City hotels.
Fortunately most of this disruption from our renovation program will be done in about 2 months.
As we look forward into 2014 we do not expect any of our planned renovations to be materially disruptive to the portfolio's performance.
On acquisitions and dispositions we believe that our cost of capital remains elevated as our stock is trading at a meaningful discount to net asset value.
Accordingly while we underwrite with a long-term view towards cost of capital we remain extremely disciplined and it is unlikely that we will be active in acquisitions near-term until our stock price more appropriately reflects our estimate of net asset value.
Accordingly the company will remain focused on creating significant shareholder value by mining the multiple internal growth opportunities contained within the existing portfolio.
On dispositions we have been very active in repositioning the portfolio this cycle and solid preponderance of our slower growing non-core hotels last year.
We think our current portfolio and market concentration is generally right on strategy.
With that said we remain committed to constantly watching the markets and regularity reviewing our portfolio for select opportunities to monetize our few slower growing non-core assets at attractive pricing.
While we are currently looking at a few limited opportunities we traditionally do not talk about these transactions until they are under firm contract.
The proceeds from any such dispositions could be used to create value by either further de-levering our conservative balance sheet repurchasing stock under the share repurchase program we announced today or funding next year's acquisition of the new select-service Hilton in Times Square.
Let me provide you with a brief update on that deal.
Our development deal in Times Square is proceeding on schedule to be delivered mid-2014.
We think we have already created value for our shareholders with this deal as the hotel appears to have appreciated quite a bit from the $450 000 per key price that we locked in by contract over 2 years ago.
The hotel will be a great addition to the portfolio.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sean to provide additional details on our operating results capital expenditure program and balance sheet.
Sean? Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our second quarter results I want to remind everybody that the quarterly comparisons for our Marriott managed hotels are impacted by Marriott International calendar year conversion.
Second quarter results for our Marriott hotels includes 7 more days than the 2012 second quarter.
Please note that this will only impact our quarterly comparisons and will not impact full-year comparisons since as a REIT we have always reported annual results on a calendar year.
Now let's turn to the second quarter numbers.
The quarter reflected some exceptionally strong results at a number of our hotels with 11 of our 27 hotels reporting double-digit RevPAR growth.
Excluding the 3 New York City hotels under renovation our portfolio generated RevPAR growth at an impressive rate of 6.7% and drove strong margin expansion with hotel adjusted EBITDA margin increasing 130 basis points.
As expected the 3 hotels under renovation in New York City impacted overall results.
For all 27 hotels total revenues increased 6.4% while RevPAR was flat for the quarter.
Our New York renovations reduced RevPAR growth by 650 basic points as there were 31 000 room nights out of service.
We are proud of our team's ability to partner with our hotel management teams to control cost during the quarter and limit the adjusted EBITDA margin decline to approximately 100 basis points.
Overall the quarter met our expectations as hotel adjusted EBITDA increased to $66.3 million and corporate adjusted EBITDA totaled $62.4 million.
Now let me spend a few minutes discussing our hotel operating results in more detail.
We were particularly pleased with another strong quarter of food and beverage performance.
Our F&amp;B revenues increased over 12% contributing to 116 basis point improvement in F&amp;B profit margins.
In particular our second quarter banquet revenues increased over 11% which was driven by 16% growth at the Boston Westin 94% at the Vail Marriott and 34% at the Salt Lake City Marriott.
In addition Frenchman's Reef had strong banquet revenue growth of over 26%.
The Salt Lake City Marriott continued to outperform with close to 23% RevPAR growth and over 800 basis points of hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion.
The hotel continued to benefit from incremental demand generated from the multibillion-dollar City Creek mixed-use development as well as strong bookings at the Salt Palace located just across the street.
This hotel continues to be a great success story for the company.
The New York City market continued to surprise to the upside with strong demand growth outpacing new supply.
The Hilton Garden Inn Chelsea our only New York hotel not under renovation delivered outstanding RevPAR growth of close to 15%.
Chicago was another bright spot for the company in the second quarter.
Both the Chicago Marriott and the Chicago Conrad generated almost 12% RevPAR growth during the quarter.
These hotels benefited from another quarter of strong group rooms production with group revenues up close to 22% at the Chicago Marriott and over 40% at the Chicago Conrad.
Please note that the quarter was negatively impacted by the recent increase in the local property tax rates which impacted quarter hotel adjusted EBITDA by approximately $1.1 million and had an approximately 50 basis point impact on margins.
Denver was another outstanding market during the second quarter.
The JW Marriott Cherry Creek grew second quarter RevPAR over 12% and the Courtyard Denver increased RevPAR by 10%.
The Denver market benefited from strong city-wide activity during the quarter with 6 city-wides of 4 000 rooms or greater.
The JW Marriott benefited from its superb location within Denver's high-end Cherry Creek neighborhood.
The hotel also took advantage of robust demand in downtown Denver during the quarter resulting in a greater than 18% increase in business transient revenue.
Additionally the Courtyard Denver benefited from the city-wide compression and increased group and transient rates over 23% and 9% respectively.
In addition the recent renovation boosted the Alpharetta Marriott's outperformance during the quarter allowing it to generate 26% RevPAR growth.
Last but not least our resorts continued their outperformance this year with a terrific second quarter which was led by The Lodge at Sonoma's 16% RevPAR growth.
Sonoma drove transient production from the strength of the San Francisco market and picked up additional weekday corporate groups from the Bay Area.
The Vail Marriott also outperformed in the quarter with RevPAR increasing over 11%.
Vail benefited from good snowfall in April as well as increased group demand throughout the quarter.
We made significant strides on our capital expenditure program during the quarter.
We still expect to invest approximately $140 million in the portfolio in 2013 projects some of which will be completed in early 2014.
We expect to fund the capital projects as follows: $55 million from existing cash reserves which are classified as restricted cash on our balance sheet; and the remaining balance from corporate cash split almost evenly from hotel cash flow and excess cash flow -- cash proceeds from recent financings.
We continue to believe that the successful execution of our 2013 capital plans will be a major catalyst for earnings growth in 2014 and beyond.
We manage our portfolio for long-term success and we are confident in our ability to deliver outperformance by making the right capital investment into our hotels to deliver multiple years of above-market growth.
With that introduction I want to discuss the current status of our most significant projects.
The Lexington Hotel in New York remains our most exciting renovation project because of the transformational nature of the renovation and up-branding to Marriott's Autograph Collection.
We have made great progress on the renovations since our last call.
Some of our significant accomplishments during the quarter include we are in the process of creating 15 new guestrooms at the hotel.
These additional keys are the result of splitting several underutilized junior suites into 2 separate rooms and converting an underutilized lounge into 2 rooms.
The public space renovation is substantially complete.
The lobby meeting rooms and bar are all finished.
The guestroom renovation is progressing.
Renovation work is a complete or is underway on all 28 floors as renovation on the last floor began this week.
As of today we have 365 renovated rooms back in service.
These renovated rooms are continuing to command a pre-conversion rate premium of $35.
The Autograph conversion is expected to occur later this month and the hotel recently entered Marriott's reservation system.
The average rate for future bookings is $285 and we are very pleased with the preliminary results.
I want to spend a minute discussing the 15 new keys.
The incremental cost of these new keys is approximately $1 million or less than $70 000 per room.
We estimate that the additional keys net of construction cost will add approximately $8 million to the hotel's value.
Including the $1 million cost of the new keys we currently expect the renovation to cost $46 million.
Marriott will provide over $4 million of key money to the company later this year that we will use to offset the cost of the renovation.
After renovation and re-branding the Marriott's Autograph Collection we expect to realize significant rate gains with the hotel generating adjusted EBITDA in the low $20 million range during 2014 and ramping to north of $30 million over the next few years.
We would like to point out that our second quarter disruption was higher than expected at the Lexington Hotel.
Specifically the hotel was closed for 6 days as a result of an unforecasted power interruption.
This increased the number of rooms out of service resulting in an increase to third quarter disruption.
The cost of power restoration and the resultant business interruption is expected to be covered by insurance.
The estimated incremental disruption for the year is $2 million to $3 million.
Our other significant renovation projects include the $12 million renovations of our 2 Manhattan Courtyards.
As we discussed last call we added 5 new guestrooms at the Courtyard Midtown East for a cost of less than $1 million.
These new keys were completed and put in service last month and are estimated to add approximately $2.5 million to the hotel's net asset value.
At both hotels we are experiencing positive customer reaction from the renovations.
The company has several other less disruptive renovations scheduled to start later this year.
The planning for the Westin Washington D.C is on schedule.
The model room and lobby design are complete and look great.
We believe that this $16.5 million renovation will transform the hotel and allow it to attract higher-rated transient and incremental group business.
This should allow the hotel to recover and exceed its lost market share.
The reaction from meeting planners to the renovation has been very encouraging and booking pace in 2014 is up over 35%.
The renovation will commence in late October and be completed during the seasonally slow winter to minimize disruption.
The Westin San Diego renovation planning is progressing well.
We believe this $14.5 million renovation will improve the positioning of the hotel and allow it to substantially close the rate gap with the most comparable Westin Hotel in the market.
Similar to the Westin D.C.
this renovation will start in the fourth quarter and be completed over the winter months to minimize disruption.
Finally we are planning the smaller renovations of our Hiltons in Boston Burlington and Minneapolis this winter.
Due to the timing of these renovations during seasonally slow periods we don't expect significant renovation disruption from any of these projects.
As we look ahead we have great conviction that our 2013 capital investments will lead to our outperformance in 2014 and beyond.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet and capital allocation.
We believe that DiamondRock has among the best balance sheet of any lodging REIT.
Since our formation in 2004 the company has remained disciplined and consistently maintained a simple and conservative balance sheet.
Our debt is comprised almost exclusively of nonrecourse non-crossed property-based debt.
In addition we maintained significant balance sheet flexibility as a result of having no outstanding borrowings on our $200 million line of credit and keeping 13 unencumbered hotels giving us significant future borrowing capacity.
To give you an idea of how much borrowing power that provides the company those 13 unencumbered hotels are expected to generate over $85 million of hotel adjusted EBITDA during 2013.
Based on our guidance we will end 2013 with approximately 5x net debt-to-EBITDA.
Our conservative balance sheet is a key element of our strategy and we believe it will enable DiamondRock to deliver superior shareholder returns across the lodging cycle.
Finally another benefit of our long-standing conservative stewardship of the balance sheet is a meaningful and sustainable dividend.
DiamondRock reinstituted its dividend early in this recovery and has paid a dividend for 10 consecutive quarters returning nearly $150 million to our shareholders.
We believe that our commitment to providing a meaningful dividend is a distinguishing feature of our company and the cornerstone of providing strong long-term returns to our shareholders.
I'll now turn it back over to Mark to discuss our 2013 outlook and recap.
Mark? Thanks Sean.
Today we are reaffirming our full year 2013 guidance.
It is important to note that our 2013 guidance remains the same overall but is now forecasted to be affected by 2 items.
First item is that our portfolio excluding hotels under renovation is performing approximately $3 million ahead of our initial expectations.
This outperformance is driven by stronger-than-expected group performance at the Westin Boston and Chicago Marriott as well as outperformance from the Westin San Diego and the Salt Lake City Marriott.
The second item affecting guidance is our current expectation of up to $15 million of renovation disruption during 2013.
This estimate is up incrementally as a result of the recent power interruption at Lexington Hotel and for the planned construction of 15 additional rooms at that hotel.
Overall we expect portfolio disruption to subside by the end of the third quarter with less than $1 million of disruption projected for the fourth quarter.
It will be great to get this noise behind us.
For the full year 2013 we continue to expect the total portfolio to increase RevPAR 1% to 3%.
It is worth noting that excluding renovations we expect the portfolio RevPAR to increase 4% to 6%.
Moreover the company still expects adjusted EBITDA of $195 million to $205 million which does reflect renovation disruption and adjusted FFO per share in the range of $0.70 to $0.74.
As we look out to 2014 and beyond we are very excited about the future of DiamondRock.
We believe our portfolio concentrated in strong gateway markets and prime resort locations will continue to benefit from favorable lodging fundamentals.
As importantly there are also a number of specific catalysts within our portfolio.
I'll mention just 5.
One the Lexington and the Manhattan Courtyard renovations will help power results in 2014.
We project year-over-year EBITDA growth at these properties to collectively exceed $15 million.
Moreover the Lexington will be a multiyear growth story.
Two there is outsized growth from the balance of the renovation program.
We expect above MSA growth over the next few years at hotels like the Westins in Washington D.C.
and San Diego as a result of the capital that will be invested this winter.
Three the portfolio in 2014 will enjoy a tailwind from this year's renovation disruption and benefit from the inclusion of over 80 000 room nights being placed back into inventory.
Four group trends are strong for DiamondRock.
Our portfolio enjoys a solid group booking pace for 2014 up 9.5%.
And lastly the Times Square deal next year will create value.
The acquisition to Hilton Garden Inn in Times Square is being bought at a great price and will be one of our best assets.
In conclusion our team remains committed to delivering shareholder value and believes that the portfolio is really setting out well as we head into 2014.
With that we'd now like to open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just wanted to ask a question about group.
I think you said pace is up 9.5% which is still at a nice clip.
But it was previously tracking at 12.5% I believe.
What do you think is driving the deceleration? And then also how much of your targeted 2014 group do you have on the books? It's Rob Tanenbaum.
We currently have 52% of our 2014 groups on the books.
And the decline from Q1 is understandable given that the pace usually declines as we move towards the upcoming year.
What's an interesting statistic though is that rate is much -- is improving.
Our rate is up 1.9% -- it was up 1.9% as of last quarter and that has increased to 5.6% as of Q2.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just a question related to sort of your outlook.
Last year looking into the second half of the year I think things kind of decelerated a little more than you anticipated in the back half of the year.
What gives you kind of confidence in the second half that you guys are going to be able to sort of hit your guidance? Austin it's Mark.
So for the second half of the year obviously we're sitting here in August we have some visibility in the June and July results.
The trends on group I think and the fact that we have 92% of the group already on the books for the back half of the year feels pretty good.
So we have a good history on the group and what that's going to do for the back half of the year.
Although it's not as strong as the front half of the year.
Business transient continues to trend well.
We're looking at the July results we're reviewing those this week.
The trends continue to be very good in our markets.
So between those and the leisure I guess being the kind of third component the trends of advanced bookings have continued to be exceptionally strong on those segments.
So all the data that's there particularly with the group backdrop feels like it's going to be a decent back half of the year.
And your next question comes from the line of Joshua Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First just to clarify.
Are the RevPAR growth numbers pro forma for the calendar change or not? Josh this is Sean.
We adjusted our 2012 to add the months as close as we could from Marriott's calendar but it's not apples-to-apples.
So for the Marriott properties there are 7 more days in the 2013 second quarter than there were in the 2012 second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So part of the 6.7% RevPAR growth may have been just a benefit from -- or not exactly comparable to last year? No because the impact on the quarter was for the -- apples-to-apples was about 30 basis points.
The 6.7% is based on available room.
So that -- we feel comfortable that's a clean number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second I guess I'd like to get your thoughts on the buyback and how it might be used.
Historically you've been fairly conservative and leverage is reasonable today but it's not low and you're going to have to draw on your line to fund the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square next year.
So I guess against that backdrop how should we think about where the buyback fits in and as asset sale proceeds potentially come in do you think about that as going to fund the buyback or going to reduce your future line borrowings? Josh it's Mark.
That's a great question.
So just to give you a little bit on the Board's perspective on the share repurchase program.
They've obviously been watching the stock closely.
They're well versed in what we believe is our net asset value and the discount that we're at.
And they've also been watching the dislocation in the market so not only is it our balance sheet but the stock if you look year-to-date has swung between the high and low probably about 15%.
And actually we had a 2-day period in June where the stock dropped to 8% not based on company moves but just based on market moves.
So although not a core tenet of our strategy the board wants to be prepared to be opportunistic for market dislocations to take advantage of that.
On the balance sheet your question about leveraging up we're also looking at potential other refinancings of existing hotels which may also fund the Home Garden Inn transaction next year.
There are some dispositions that we're reviewing that would obviously allow us to buy back stock without increasing our debt but all of it is going to be dependent on our assessment of net asset value and the opportunity that's in the market.
I don't think you should expect that when we get together next quarter that we've spent $100 million on share repurchase.
We're going to be very judicious about how we use the plan.
And there's a constant dialogue between management and the board about setting the appropriate price for the repurchase.
And as things change in the marketplace and things change with companies such as dispositions or capital requirements for projects we'll continue to try to make the best decision to make create shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> Do you feel like you would need to sell an asset to buy back stock? Or would you feel comfortable if the stock were at a level you thought was attractive use the existing capacity of the company to buy back stock? At a certain level we would be comfortable using the existing capacity of the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask a question about how you kind of view New York structurally from a long-term impact in your portfolio? I mean when you get the Garden Inn open and you get Lexington done I mean New York is going to be a very significant part of your portfolio I guess more so than it's ever been.
Are you -- it's obviously a great market but I mean are you comfortable with where it's going to be or you bought the Courtyards really well many years ago I mean is there any thought to maybe recycling those at some point? Chris this is Mark.
So let me take those in kind of 2 parts.
The first our perspective on New York.
We're bullish long-term on New York.
There's obviously a lot of supply coming into market there's supply coming into market.
If you look since 2009 there's been about 6 million available room nights added to the marketplace but that was overwhelmed by the increase of demand which was probably up about 7 million room nights during that same period.
So the market's done a terrific job with demand growth of absorbing the supply.
We do think that you need to be very watchful of supplies particularly next year and the following year it's going to continue to creep up.
And you're going to have to be very thoughtful about how you manage your sales strategy to adjust for that.
The East Side seems to be the least impacted area of Manhattan with supply.
So that has some of the lowest supply growth rates in the island.
I think it's about 2.6% this year and a little over 1% for next year.
So we feel good about the East Side where the majority of our representation is.
The Hilton Garden Inn Times Square I think the -- although there is supply from Times Square that's a very deep market so we're not concerned about the supply in Times Square.
As far as recycling assets which was the other question it is something we consider.
Our exposure as a company to New York is about 18% right now.
It will take over -- a little over 20% when we get the Hilton Garden Inn so we will have significant representation.
The other avenue obviously is if we do get back in the acquisition game probably our asset allocation will be in other markets and just mathematically representation to New York would decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the Lexington Hotel how do you view the cost structure there relative to maybe other full-service hotels maybe ones that might be operated by Marriott? Do you think there's a -- with Highgate in there is that going to be a competitor -- a really good advantage for you guys? We feel very comfortable with Highgate in that role.
Their history as an operator is very strong and we think the plan in place both from a cost side and a revenue generation perspective in their marketing plan on a go forward basis is extremely compelling.
And Chris this is Sean.
The other aspect of that hotel that makes it compelling is that the F&amp;B operations which tend to hurt full-service hotel margins are outsourced at that hotel which allows it to be a primarily rooms-only hotel which allows for much higher margins than you would expect from a traditional full-service hotel.
And that was one of the key catalysts to our buying the hotel in the first place.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just finally on the Chicago property tax as you mentioned are you guys appealing those? And maybe just a quick review of the portfolio how you're looking on taxes and if there's any significant increases we should be thinking about.
Chris the Chicago property tax was not an assessment issue as much as the rates in Cook County increased unexpectedly this quarter.
So this actually impacts anybody that owns property in Chicago.
So that was a little bit of a surprise although on historical standards the property taxes are still pretty well below where they were during the 2007 time frame.
We've had positive surprises in Chicago property taxes for the last number of years.
On the balance of portfolio we have about 18 hotels under appeal right now.
There's clearly lumpiness in when that gets recorded in the P&amp;L because you don't record the gain until you win the appeal.
So there's some potential benefits long-term within the portfolio there.
I think from a run rate I think anywhere from 3% to 5% is what I would underwrite long-term for property tax increases across the portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looks like you guys found some nice opportunities by adding rooms.
I wonder if you found any additional revenue opportunities or maybe some cost reductions throughout the portfolio? Wes it's Rob Tanenbaum.
We found -- we're looking at an additional opportunity at the Boston Hilton where we think we can add more than 20 additional keys so we're currently studying that opportunity.
But we've been successful in our CapEx program.
We've added ahead of CapEx to our team and we had over $2.2 million of CapEx assigned for the 3 hotels I think in Boston Burlington and D.C.
We -- as identified and we were able to save 85% of that cost through addressing various issues.
So for example there was a roof replacement at the Boston Hilton it was $675 000 that we were able to address by repairing the roof for $119 000 and getting a 10-year warranty on it.
So we're looking at things in a very different perspective and we've been able to achieve quite a bit of cost savings.
In Sonoma we've recently instituted a resort fee that will drive an incremental $300 000 to the hotel's bottom line.
We're also studying the opportunity of creating another 6 500 square feet of meeting space at the Boston Westin and that -- it's currently under consideration as retail space but we believe there's a higher and better use as meeting space.
We're also looking at leasing out 2 of our restaurants at 2 of our hotels.
And we're also really making a significant change in our leadership of the hotels.
Since April 1 we've replaced 9 GMs both through natural and forced moves.
We've also replaced 2 directors of revenue management director of sales director of food and beverage and a director of finance.
And lastly...and lastly just bringing in telephone -- bringing in consultants to help us out at both in the telephone labor analysis and food and beverage to help us out.
Specifically I'll just give you a quick example.
In telephone in San Diego for example we brought a telephone consultant in to take a look at opportunities there.
We found $55 000 in annualized savings.
It was $125 000 in CapEx available to us.
We then -- we since have hired the telephone consultant to look at the entire portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So where would you say you are at in the process of mining the portfolio that -- you've gotten halfway done or you have looked through most of it at this point? No we're in the beginning stages of mining the portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess a question for Sean.
You mentioned the possibility of getting more secured debt.
Where do you think you can borrow 10-year money today? 10-year money is about 5% is what I would expect to borrow today.
The 10-year swap rate is blown out just call it 70 basis points from when we last borrowed and spreads are out the balance the remaining 30 basis points.
So I think that would be a market clearing price today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And looking out next year you mentioned some ADR gains on the group side is this dominated by 1 market such as Boston or is it more broad-based? Boston is our strongest group market next year although we have strong group pace at say San Diego and Washington D.C.
as well.
But Boston is a primary group market for us and we expect it to be a terrific year next year in Boston on the group front.
Your next question comes from the line of David Loeb with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Mark you alluded to the value of the Hilton Garden Inn being well in excess to the $450 000 per room contract price.
What do you think the value of that will be at opening? David we're talking about the next -- middle of next year but we would estimate based on the pro forma that we're looking at if we hit the dollar underwriting it's probably worth about $550 000 a key.
Research Division</strong> $550 000.
Okay.
And you have a lot of renovation plans that wind up early 2014.
I'm assuming that's essentially the end of the first quarter or maybe the beginning of the second quarter.
Is there much beyond that? Will you be doing much in the way of major renovations beyond that window? No we don't have -- currently we don't have any plans to do any new renovations for 2014 other than the ones that we've already identified.
And they do wrap-up generally around the end of the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And your results were really good.
You unlike a lot of your peers you didn't say anything about weaker demand in the second quarter impact of the sequester.
Did you see any of that in your markets? Did you just find ways to replace that without it affecting occupancy rates? What do you think is going on? Rob you want to take that? Absolutely.
We saw a 1% decrease in our government business for the portfolio and government only represents about 3% of our overall demand.
It seems we've been able to replace -- interestingly enough I'll give you an example in Minneapolis where there was a group cancellation we're able to replace it with a higher-end special corporate business transient demand.
So again the hotels have done overall a great job replacing demand and infusing -- for example in Denver as well where there were some city-wide compression pushing rates and really being able to maximize the opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's impressive.
And then finally Frenchman's Reef.
I guess we're in this past quarter we're entering the second year post-renovation am I remembering the timing right? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Were you hoping for more of a kind of a continued ramp there? What do you think of its performance? Yes I think so David when we look at that hotel we're seeing -- and I'll let Rob jump in here in a minute because his impression means he's got a great playbook from Aruba Marriott which he previously asset-managed.
But our return -- the revenues have been actually very strong and are ahead of our pro forma projections when we did the $45 million investment.
What we believe is there's still a lot of expense that we can get out of the hotel and that's really what's going to be able to drive what we think will be a very strong growth year next year.
But I'll let Rob talk about his game plan because I think it's fairly interesting.
Dave it's Rob.
I'm really thrilled about this hotel again having worked at the Aruba Marriott as it has a direct correlation with -- between the 2 properties and what we're putting forth here.
For example we brought back revenue management.
Revenue management was in New Jersey.
We're bringing that back on property.
We have a new GM that just started this past week that we are thrilled about.
And we're changing out additional management positions at the hotel.
We believe this -- we have an opportunity to drive -- to drive demand via additional e-channels and we're focusing on the KPIs of this asset.
So we see a lot of upside as we go forward on this property.
David I would just add.
If Rob was able to use his playbook he used at Aruba and effectively put that in here we have every reason to believe -- and we will be able to do that we'd expect this to have significant upside in 2014 and 2015 as Rob implements kind of a different -- a little different revenue management strategy but particularly focused on expense controls and getting that really to best-in-class margins for that property.
And your next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to clarify the performance at your Chicago Marriott.
RevPAR was up 12% during the quarter but margins were down 120 bps.
Is that all taxes or what was the explanation for that? Yes Lukas this is Sean.
It was all taxes.
We actually had strong house profit flow at the Chicago Marriott particularly this quarter which was driven by the group business.
So it was a pretty significant property tax adjustment.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Mark just a question for you.
For 2014 just given all the renovations you've done in the portfolio here all things being equal how much do you expect your portfolio to outperform the market next year? From a growth perspective.
Right.
I mean if you just put the 80 000 room nights back in that's probably 2 points of occupancy.
So certainly we would expect to beat -- if you kind of took our MSAs and market growth we'd anticipate beating that by at least 2 points in occupancy.
Then we expect significant rate upside from hotels like the Lexington as well as comps and ROIs essentially from a number of other projects that we're pursuing right now.
We're not giving guidance for '14 but we would expect to certainly significantly outpace the MSAs that we're in overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up question on the share buyback program.
When you review the share buyback with the board how much of this is -- to kind of put some kind of a floor on the stock versus having a plan to buy back sequential like a little bit of amount every single quarter? I mean how do you think about that? Yes the board's perspective is it shouldn't be gimmicky.
It's not really to put a floor on the stock price.
It's really to take advantage of what we think could be a great value-creation opportunity and take advantage of market dislocation.
So what they're focused on is really looking at the NAV of the company looking at the opportunity for market dislocation and then balancing that with what's going on with our balance sheet and competitive uses of the capital.
But that's really -- it's a tool in our value-creation tool chest and that's the way they look at it.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Joshua Attie with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on dispositions.
And I know you don't like to talk about specific deals before they close.
But can you kind of tell us are you in the market with assets today? Josh this is Mark.
Yes we are looking at a couple of select opportunities.
We are talking to potential bidders on those assets.
But besides that I don't have much color to add at this point.
Research Division</strong> And what kind of -- what have those discussions been like? Has there been volatility in the bid ask with the move-up in long-term treasury bonds or not? Right.
So the assets that we're looking at possibly monetizing are more assets where people think that they can perhaps change the operator and run the hotel differently.
They may have a different mousetrap where they think they can do it differently.
We haven't heard any feedback from these parties about changing pricing guidance based on differences in financing.
So we haven't gotten that feedback.
I think the market's relatively strong for opportunities where people can change brand and management.
So that market seems to be very robust.
Clearly the market that is more of a steady Eddie asset where it's really more financing play as much as it is hotel deal.
Those you would expect to be more influenced but we are looking at monetizing one of those kind of assets and we haven't heard any feedback from bidders that they are priced or potential bids are impacted by the change in rates yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Hightower with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the buyback authorization.
Obviously this is something we've kind of discussed in the past and the -- that particular tool in the toolkit has existed all along.
And I'm just curious for a little more color as to maybe what changed in the board's thinking this quarter versus prior quarters? And just how you came to the conclusion at this particular time that this is the right -- a right tool to potentially use in the toolkit so to speak? Right.
This is Mark I'll just give you a little bit of a color.
I think it's really the -- we've been talking about it every quarter obviously as a potential vehicle.
We wanted to put it in place with the earnings call so that's the right course I think to put the program in.
They've really been struck by the volatility in the stock and I think the continued trading at a discount to NAV.
So it's been an ongoing dialogue.
I don't think that there was any one thing that triggered putting it in this quarter versus last quarter.
I think it's more of the evolution of the conversation and particularly some of the market dislocation like June where the stock dropped 8% in 2 days not based on anything at the company.
I think that kind of dislocation and that kind of volatility in the stock really warranted close focus from the board to put a plan in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I apologize if I missed it earlier but do you have maybe a loose threshold below which if you're comparing the stock price to NAV below which you really feel compelled to pull the trigger on executing on the buyback program? Or is it just take it as it comes? Well it's an ongoing discussion where we're evaluating the -- we obviously have a view on our NAV but it's ongoing dialogue with the board about setting the right price parameters around the repurchase.
And with no further questions at this time I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Tawanda.
To everyone in this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
Also I'd like to remind our listeners that the company has scheduled an Investor and Analyst Day on September 10 in New York City where we'll offer tours to some of our renovated hotels and hopefully showcase the upside potential.
We look forward to seeing you there.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Great day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 DiamondRock Hospitality earnings conference call.
My name is Lisa and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
Mark Brugger Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Thanks Lisa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today I'm joined by Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer.
As usual before we begin I would like to remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
Let me start today's prepared remarks with a few general observations on industry fundamentals.
The third quarter showed solid strength with the industry reporting its 14th consecutive quarter of RevPAR growth above 5%.
The current lodging cycle remains strong despite an overall economic recovery that is best characterized as modest to weak.
We carefully track several major economic indicators that we believe best correlate to hotel demand.
These economic indicators continue to show gradual improvement.
A benefit of the slower than normal recovery is that it increases the likelihood for an elongated lodging cycle.
Moreover new hotel supply remains another favorable feature of this cycle.
In the third quarter supply was muted with growth of less than 1% which is less than half the historical average.
And we expect overall supply growth to continue to be restrained over in the next few years.
Overall our outlook for U.S.
lodging fundamentals is for several more years of solid growth and we have positioned DiamondRock to take advantage of that environment.
For DiamondRock there are 5 key takeaways from today's earnings release: One the portfolio is performing well with approximately 6% year-to-date RevPAR growth excluding hotels under renovation; two the successful execution of our disposition strategy continued with the pending sale of the non-core Torrance Marriott at a strong EBITDA multiple; three renovation disruption is now substantially behind us; four the Lexington renovation is done and early signs point to success; and fifth DiamondRock is positioned for growth next year from renovation tailwinds strong group pace and our high-quality portfolio located in top gateway and resort markets.
Turning specifically to operating results for the DiamondRock portfolio the portfolio continues to perform well.
Year-to-date the portfolio delivered RevPAR growth of nearly 6% excluding the 3 New York City hotels under renovation.
The RevPAR increase was driven by the ability of our hotels to significantly push rate which is up 3.7% year-to-date as most of our hotels exceeded prior peak occupancy levels.
EBITDA profit margins have expanded 68 basis points.
We will provide a more in-depth look at operating results later in the call.
For DiamondRock 2013 continues to be a story about setting the table for 2014 and '15.
As we explained at our Investor Day in September the team is focused on 3 specific strategic initiatives to drive future growth.
These strategic initiatives are: One completing our $140 million capital investment program; two executing our strategy to dispose of non-core hotels; and three improving operating margins by implementing new and creative asset management initiatives.
We've already made tremendous strides and the successful implementation of these strategic initiatives should allow DiamondRock to outperform.
Let's take a few minutes to discuss each of these 3 strategic initiatives because they are each very important.
First we have achieved several major milestones in our $140 million capital program.
This is a big program which consist of renovating more than 1/3 of our portfolio completing one major rebranding and fundamentally repositioning 3 large hotels.
We recognize that renovation disruption is an unpleasant but necessary part of unlocking value and managing a portfolio for long-term performance.
Today we are pleased to report that the Lexington renovation and rebranding is now complete.
This is a big milestone for our renovation program.
The Lexington Hotel looks terrific and the feedback from guests and corporate accounts is exceeding our expectations.
Our belief in the success of the hotel conversion has been reinforced by a number of early indicators.
Further our strategy of rebranding to an autograph to grow revenues by shifting from lower rated leisure and contract business to higher rated of business transient is beginning to work.
Here are some interesting data points to consider.
Since September 1 rates are up.
Average daily rates have increased over $40 at the Lexington from the comparable period in 2012.
The Marriott brand is delivering.
Approximately half of our revenues at the Lexington have been generated from the Marriott Rewards members and more than 60% of our business is coming through Marriott channels.
The target mix shift is happening.
Business transient revenues now account for over 80% of total revenues at the hotel.
Even better this was driven primarily by a 5x increase in the highest rated transient segment.
Meanwhile we have yielded out the lower rated segments.
We look forward to keeping you up-to-date on the progress at the Lexington as this exciting story continues to unfold.
The second prong of our plan focuses on our disposition programs for the few non-core hotels in our portfolio.
As you know at the beginning of this cycle we aggressively pursued a capital recycling program to dispose of non-core assets and redeployed those proceeds to fund acquisitions in higher growth markets.
So far this cycle we have sold 4 non-core hotels at extremely strong EBITDA multiples.
These sales improved the portfolio's quality and meaningfully increased its average RevPAR.
We continue executing on our program and announced today the pending sale of the Torrance Marriott at a multiple of 14x EBITDA for the trailing 4 quarters.
Once again we are focused on strategic capital recycling as we will utilize the roughly $76 million in cash proceeds from the sale to help fund the pending acquisition of the newly built Hilton Garden Inn Times Square next year.
We will continue to pursue our capital recycling program and we will look to sell 1 or 2 more non-core hotels over the next 18 months.
The third prong of our plan focuses on our new asset management initiatives.
Rob Tanenbaum our recently appointed Chief Operating Officer and Head of Asset Management is making great progress in identifying strategies to enhance revenues optimize operating cost and ultimately drive improvement in hotel operating margins.
In a moment Rob will elaborate on his effort.
Before turning the call over I want to provide an update on our exciting project in Times Square.
The Hilton Garden Inn Times Square enjoys a fantastic location and remains on-schedule for a midyear 2014 delivery.
After the sale of the Torrance Marriott the company has the ability to close on the new hotel just with excess corporate cash on hand.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sean Mahoney our CFO who will provide additional details on our operating results and the balance sheet.
Afterwards Rob Tanenbaum will discuss the tremendous progress we are making on the asset management front.
Sean? Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our third quarter results I want to emphasize that our third quarter prior year comparisons are significantly impacted by Marriott's reporting calendar change.
The Marriott Hotel third quarter includes 20 fewer days than last year which results in approximately 10% fewer room nights this quarter.
Please note that this only impacts our quarterly comparisons and will not impact the full year comparisons since we have always reported annual results on a calendar year.
Now let's turn to the third quarter numbers.
Overall it was another good quarter.
The company reported hotel adjusted EBITDA of $54.5 million corporate adjusted EBITDA of $51 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.18.
While overall results were in line with our expectations there were a number of moving pieces.
The results were negatively impacted by renovation disruption at the Lexington Hotel.
In total we now estimate full year renovation disruption of $17 million which is $2 million above the high end of the previous range.
However this impact was mostly offset by outperformance at the Boston Westin LAX Marriott and our 2 New York City Courtyards which benefited from renovations completed earlier in the year.
The third quarter reflected some exceptionally strong results at many of our hotels with 5 hotels reporting double digit RevPAR growth.
Excluding the Lexington Hotel our portfolio generated strong comparable RevPAR growth of 5%.
Our third quarter pro forma health profit margins expanded 40 basis points.
However hotel adjusted EBITDA margins contracted 32 basis points.
EBITDA margins in the third quarter were held back by a total of 80 basis points from 3 specific drivers namely: Property tax increases at our hotels in Chicago Denver and San Diego; underperformance at our Washington D.C.
hotels; and the impact of ramping union conversion costs at the Boston Hilton.
Renovation disruption as expected materially impacted our third quarter results.
The impact was almost exclusively from the final stages of the Lexington Hotel renovation.
Disruption impacted RevPAR growth by 390 basis points.
The Lexington renovation resulted in 29 000 lost room nights representing approximately 44% of available rooms at the hotel or 2.7% of available rooms for our entire portfolio.
The renovation disruption from the Lexington is now done as the renovation was substantially complete at the end of October.
We believe that our year-to-date operating results which are not significantly impacted by the Marriott calendar conversion are more indicative of portfolio performance.
We are pleased with the portfolio's performance so far this year.
Excluding the 3 renovated New York City hotels we achieved year-to-date RevPAR growth of 5.9%.
The year-to-date RevPAR growth led to house profit margin expansion of 103 basis points and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 68 basis points.
Similar to the third quarter year-to-date margin expansion is negatively impacted by approximately 60 basis points due to increases in property taxes the weak Washington D.C.
market and the Hilton Boston union conversion costs.
Now let me spend a few minutes discussing our hotel operating results in more detail.
We are encouraged by the continued recovery in group.
Quarterly group production for the third and fourth quarters was 60% above what we booked last year resulting in an increase in 2013 group booking pace from 5.3% at the end of the second quarter to 7.6% now.
The production was led by the Chicago Marriott the Boston Hilton the Worthington Renaissance and the Salt Lake City Marriott.
Year-to-date our group revenues are 10% above last year led by a strong group performance at the Chicago Marriott.
However we expect flat group revenues during the fourth quarter as a result of the lack of convention activity in Chicago Boston and Minneapolis.
We also had a productive quarter for 2014 bookings.
Our hotels booked over $14 million in the quarter representing an approximately 14% increase from last year.
Our 2014 booking pace is up over 10% driven by a 4% rate increase with the balance coming from incremental room nights.
Our 2014 group segment which represents about 1/3 of our total business is positively impacted by our group concentration in Boston and a strong group here in St.
Thomas.
We have booked approximately 65% of our 2014 groups which puts us in great shape heading into 2014.
We were also pleased with another strong food and beverage quarter.
F&amp;B revenues were approximately 6% above expectations as a result of strong group pickup during the quarter.
Some notably strong performers include the Chicago Marriott F&amp;B revenues which were 15% or $1.1 million above expectations; the outperformance was driven by banquet and catering.
The Boston Westin's F&amp;B sales grew 10.6% from 2012 which contributed to a 270 basis point margin expansion.
The Renaissance Worthington F&amp;B revenues were 23% above expectations also driven by banquet and catering.
Let me now spend a few minutes discussing the results of a few specific hotels.
The San Diego Westin continued to outperform achieving 10% of RevPAR growth.
The hotel continues to pick up incremental demand from the new federal courthouse located just across the street.
This hotel which is currently under renovation is expected to be a great growth catalyst during 2014 and beyond.
The Alpharetta Marriott was another bright spot for the company with 23% RevPAR growth and close to 500 basis points of margin expansion.
Year-to-date RevPAR has grown 20%.
The hotel has benefited from the recent moves by General Motors and Ernst &amp; Young into the Alpharetta submarket which has allowed the hotel to significantly increase midweek corporate business.
The JW Marriott Cherry Creek grew third quarter RevPAR over 12%.
The hotel benefits from its superb location within Denver's high end Cherry Creek neighborhood and took advantage of both midweek and weekend demand resulting in a close to a 7% -- 17% increase in business transient revenue.
The LAX Marriott took advantage of strong transient demand to drive 8% RevPAR growth and 227 basis points of margin expansion during the quarter which significantly exceeded our expectations.
The Boston Hilton grew third quarter RevPAR over 11% and picked up close to 6 percentage points of market share during the quarter which are both great data points that reinforce our decision to bring in Davidson to create a new revenue management strategy at the hotel.
We expect the hotel's margins to continue to be negatively impacted by ramping union labor and benefits cost for the balance of the year.
Finally our resort portfolio continued to outperform led by The Lodge at Sonoma's 10% RevPAR growth.
Sonoma drove transient production from the strength of the San Francisco market and picked up additional weekday corporate groups from the Bay Area.
In addition during September we rolled out a resort fee in Sonoma which is expected to generate approximately $0.5 million of incremental hotel adjusted EBITDA next year.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet and capital allocation.
We believe that DiamondRock's balance sheet is among the best of any lodging REIT.
We have consistently maintained a simple and low-risk balance sheet with essentially no corporate debt.
We adhere to a simple and straightforward capital structure framework as follows: we believe that maintaining low leverage is the most prudent strategy for a public lodging REIT.
Based on our base case long-range projections which assume no new equity assurance we expect net debt to EBITDA below 3x by 2016.
Our overall capital structure acts as a defensive tool to mitigate the risk of lodging cycle volatility.
We continue to believe in the value of a simple capital structure and have a bias against preferreds and converts.
We have significant borrowing capacity by maintaining approximately half of our portfolio unencumbered by mortgage debt.
We have no corporate debt other than our undrawn line of credit.
Our conservative balance sheet is a key element of our strategy and we believe it enables DiamondRock to deliver superior shareholder returns across the lodging cycle with less risk.
Another benefit of our long-standing conservative balance sheet is a meaningful and sustainable dividend.
We reinstituted our dividend early in this recovery and have paid a dividend for 11 consecutive quarters returning over $160 million to our shareholders since 2011.
Our current dividend yield is approximately 3% which is competitive relative to our peers and attractive in the current low interest rate environment.
Since our formation in 2004 we have returned more than $430 million to our shareholders through dividends.
We are committed to paying a meaningful dividend and believe it is the cornerstone of our long-term shareholder return.
The company has been thoughtful in positioning our balance sheet for upcoming capital needs the most significant of which is the 2014 funding of our take-out commitment for the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square.
After the refinancing of the Salt Lake City Marriott and disposition of the Torrance Marriott we expect to end 2013 with approximately $145 million of corporate cash which will provide us with the option to fund the Times Square acquisition with cash on hand.
We are bullish on the outlook for lodging and DiamondRock.
Today we have reaffirmed full year guidance.
For 2014 we are well-positioned to benefit from several company-specific growth catalysts including above market growth at our renovated hotels; traction from new asset management initiatives; strong group pace; and the acquisition of the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square.
I will now turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Sean and good morning everyone.
It's been a very exciting 7 months in asset management as we've been focused on implementing various initiatives in order to further unlock inherent value in the portfolio.
It may be helpful to begin my remarks today with a quick overview of asset management's critical objectives for 2013.
Our first objective was to get the right teams in place at both DiamondRock and at the hotels.
In particular there was a significant emphasis on putting the right leaders in our properties.
We have been proactively working with the management companies to identify the best people to lead these efforts.
And in this quarter alone there have been 5 hotels with new general managers at key assets like the Chicago Marriott the Boston Westin and Frenchman's Reef.
By the end of 2013 approximately half of the GMs in our portfolio will be new.
We have also replaced 4 directors of revenue management 2 directors of finance and 1 director of sales and marketing this quarter.
These new players are aligned with our strategic vision for their respective hotels and were selected due to their exceptional ability to drive future hotel operating results.
We believe that these new teams with our collaboration are positioning our hotels to deliver strong operating results.
Our second objective was to ensure that our $140 million capital initiative was executed on time and on budget.
We are pleased with the tremendous progress on this initiative and through the end of the third quarter we have spent approximately $75 million on this program and expect to spend approximately 2/3 of the remaining capital during the fourth quarter which will result in minimal disruption.
We completed the renovation of the 2 New York City Courtyards earlier this summer and the Lexington Hotel rebranding and renovation is now complete.
The Lexington Hotel is a multi-year story and we expect it to outperform the market during 2014 and 2015 generating adjusted EBITDA in the low $20 million range during 2014 and ramping to north of $30 million over the next few years.
In addition we have started the renovations on the 4 hotels acquired in 2012 with work on the Minneapolis Hilton to begin shortly.
One of the projects we are most excited about is the renovation of the Washington D.C.
Westin.
This transformative renovation will reposition the hotel to attract higher-rated transient and incremental group business.
There has been pent-up demand for this hotel and the new product will allow us to gain significant market share and profitability.
The reaction from meeting planners has already been very encouraging and the 2014 booking pace is up approximately 22%.
We expect this asset to be another multi-year opportunity after potential customers can see the new product.
We are long-term believers in the D.C.
market and the successful implementation of our strategy at this hotel should allow us to outperform the market for several years.
The Westin San Diego renovation is also expected to reposition the hotel allowing it to substantially close the rate gap with the Westin Gaslamp located just 2 blocks away.
Our location proximate to the new Federal Courthouse is an additional driver of demand as we have recently secured a $250 000 courthouse-related piece of business from March 2014.
Finally our third objective was to work with each hotel to identify opportunities within the portfolio to improve both sales strategies and reduce operating costs.
This has taken some time and we expect the process to be ongoing though we're pleased with the progress to date as we head into 2014.
We are focused on developing comprehensive sales strategies and revenue management plans at each hotel.
We identified a number of hotels with basic revenue enhancement opportunities such as reclassifying standard rooms to premium view rooms as well as implementing dynamic e-commerce programs and enhanced package pricing.
An example of the impact from this approach is reflected in the San Diego Westin where our team diligently worked with the hotel executive team and identified the opportunity to aggressively push rate by shifting the business mix towards business transient.
The strategy paid off as the hotels' RevPAR growth outperformed the market by approximately 400 basis points.
Another area that we're focused on is implementing highly profitable resort fees.
We added a new resort fee in the third quarter at Sonoma and will be adding a resort fee in Vail during the fourth quarter as well as increasing the resort fee at Frenchman's Reef.
The impact from this initiative will generate an incremental $1 million annually in profit.
Nevertheless our operating profits are frankly not where we want or expect them to be.
Though our dedicated approach is to work with each individual hotel in order to begin realizing the potential upside.
More specifically we're analyzing various key performance indicators with our teams including costs per occupied room food costs and cost per available room for support departments.
We are reducing exposure through a systematic approach to controllable expenses as well as improving productivity and setting stretch goals for our properties.
A few successes include savings of over $375 000 at 6 properties in the telephone department $185 000 at 2 hotels related to parking operations and $100 000 at one property from improved productivity.
Although we've only begun to tackle the various opportunities throughout the portfolio we are confident that our plan will result in significant margin expansion.
We are extremely excited about our team our new leaders at our hotels and our approach to both increasing revenues and controlling expenses in order to maximize the value of all the opportunities within this portfolio.
I will now turn the call over to Mark for closing remarks.
Thank you Rob.
Looking forward we are excited about how DiamondRock is positioned for growth in 2014 2015 and beyond.
There are a number of near-term catalyst.
First our renovation program is set to begin pay off.
We are just entering into a period of reaping the return from our $140 million capital investment program.
Moreover the renovation disruption is largely behind us and we go into next year with tailwinds from easy comparisons.
Second 2014 should benefit from strong group performance as our group pace for next year is up over 10%.
And finally our new asset management initiatives will begin to harvest both revenue and margin expansion opportunities starting next year.
With that we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
First of all I know you've got a few renovations that are trickling into the first quarter of next year.
Are you expecting any material disruption in the first quarter or are you really expecting all the disruption to be played out through the end of this year? Ryan it's Mark.
On the renovation structure and for the full year 2014 we don't expect material renovation disruption.
There's always a little in every year but we do not anticipate a significant disruption in Q1 of next year or in any quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Rob I'm wondering if you might be able to help us think a little bit about where you think this portfolio's margins can get to? I know I'm not looking for guidance for 2014 but just as you've now been there for a few months and you've been able to digest a lot of the portfolio and where the properties are running where do you think that the margin should be on a stabilized basis across the portfolio? Well I think we have great opportunity throughout the portfolio Ryan.
And we believe there's great upside throughout.
Ryan this is Sean.
I think when you think through where our portfolio has performed so far this cycle we're a couple of hundred basis points below where we think we should perform.
I think when you look for the next couple of years it's certainly not going to be a 1 year return but over the next 2 to 3 years we should expect to recoup that lost margin that we didn't get earlier in this cycle and that's really what our -- both revenue enhancement opportunities in asset management as well as the cost-containment initiatives are intended to accomplish.
Research Division</strong> So basically a couple hundred basis points above where you are today is what you would make sense from a today standpoint? I mean margins could go up beyond that as this cycle continues to recover? No we would expect a couple of hundred basis points above where the market margins move as we recoup those lost margins is the best way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just real quickly lastly with regards to the Torrance Marriott sale I'm not sure how much color you can give us but can you give us an idea of who the buyer was or what the type of buyer and how the appetite was for that asset? Sure this is -- Ryan it's Mark again.
We went to market -- we engaged a national broker.
We had numerous bids on the asset.
The particular buyer that is under contract we have a confidentiality agreement but I can tell you it's an offshore buyer and this is a strategic entrée into the U.S.
market for them.
Research Division</strong> Okay and were there a lot of bids for the asset? Or was this really negotiated with 1 or 2 guys that were pretty focused on it? No there was aggressive competition for the asset.
There were a lot of offers on the hotel.
Research Division</strong> Great and do you have anything you guys are looking to sell as non-core over the next 12 months or so? Yes as we mentioned in the prepared remarks there's 2 other assets we've identified to sell in the next 18 months.
We’re going to be disciplined about the exact timing of selling those to maximize the proceeds for our shareholders.
But yes there are other assets.
As we mentioned last call we had about $150 million in total asset value of non-core assets to monetize.
Obviously Torrance at $76 million represents about half of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just wanted to touch on the F&amp;B growth you guys experienced.
You had mentioned it was better than you had anticipated.
And I was just curious is this due to a better group and banquet activity? Or is it something attributable that you guys are doing differently to generate additional business? Austin it's Rob.
It's due to banquet activity from the groups.
Research Division</strong> But are you generally seeing people plan more types of banquet activity than you were before? And when you look into 2014 with the group business that you guys have already on the books do you expect that should continue to grow? Yes we do.
We are seeing some really great short-term group catering contribution in the quarter for the quarter.
And so we do expect that to grow given the basis of our group booking pace for next year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just -- it sounded like property tax -- property taxes impacted margins pretty materially at several of your properties.
And you've talked about the upside that you've gotten margins.
When you looked at 2014 without providing specific guidance do you anticipate a material impact on margins from property taxes again next year? No Austin I think for 2014 when you look at where the reassessments are there shouldn't be any big outliers in 2014.
Our property taxes on '13 were driven by both Chicago as well as Colorado's reassessment years.
Chicago is the triannual reassessment and the Colorado is biannual.
And so that -- it just so happens that as the calendar hit this year we are comparing to prior periods that were pretty low property tax years because of where we were in the economy.
So we would expect for '14 to be normal inflationary increases to property taxes.
The other thing on property taxes that I would note is that we are constantly appealing property taxes about half of our portfolio today is under appeal.
We do not record wins or losses on appeals until they get settled.
So that's something that we are constantly working through.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one.
With all of the group business that you guys have on the books now which quarters next year do you expect to have sort of the most compression from that additional group that's already on the books? Sure Austin it's Rob.
It's quarters 1 3 and 4.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Anto Savarirajan on for Steven Kent.
The Marriott Suites in Bethesda is having a particularly difficult year on RevPAR and EBITDA.
Apart from the weakness in D.C.
are there other factors affecting performance at the property? Yes it's -- this is Rob.
We've been working with the hotel quite diligently over the past quarter in readjusting their sales strategy.
And it really just comes from a change in how the market is shifting and the property is readjusting their approach to the market.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
You mentioned the government shutdown in I think in your prepared remarks as in the press release have you quantified the EBITDA or RevPAR impact of this shutdown for 4Q? Yes it's about $600 000 in both revenue as well as EBITDA impact for the fourth quarter primarily in our 2 Washington D.C.
assets.
Research Division</strong> Understand.
The -- my last question on the LAX you didn't make some very constructive remarks on the $40 rate list and the good corporate rates.
How is this tracking to your prior estimates? And I understand that it's still early days since the reopening but can you talk about some of the corporate bookings you're seeing for 2014 and the property? Yes this is Mark.
The Lexington we've had about 100 corporate accounts go through.
We've been added to some of the best accounts in New York City through the Marriott programs already.
We're not into RFP season -- we're not fully through the RFP season for next year but we are tracking ahead of schedule with the corporate accounts.
We've actually added more corporate accounts than we would have anticipated given the midyear entry into the brand conversion.
So we're ahead of expectations on that front.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So you reaffirmed the annual guidance despite higher renovation disruption.
Where is the outperformance coming from? Is it all the F&amp;B that you talked about? And yes I guess it's also surprising given that you -- I know you have some D.C.
impact too even though it is small.
Thomas this is Sean.
The outperformance F&amp;B was clearly a big component of it but it was -- that's really a subset of the outperformance in group.
We've had very strong year-over-year in the year for the year bookings for group.
So our Chicago Marriott as well as our Boston Westin were big drivers of our outperformance.
So I think the way to think about our results in our maintaining guidance is that the disruption was a couple million dollars higher than we thought but that was essentially offset with outperformance on the group side Boston and Chicago being the 2 drivers there.
Research Division</strong> And can you just give us your updated thoughts on kind of the current transaction environment? Thomas this is Mark.
As I stated in our Investor Day in September we're not actually actively looking in 2013 to do acquisitions because we're focused on the internal growth opportunities.
We are obviously looking at every deal that comes across our desk.
The market we can tell you from the sales effort we had is very robust.
We actually got more offers than we anticipated on the Torrance Marriott when we brought it to the market.
It seems like there's an imbalance between great opportunities and the amount of capital that's out there.
So we're seeing valuations potentially going upwards from where they've been earlier this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Hightower with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So a quick question on the Salt Lake City refi.
Can you tell us what debt to gross asset value is pre- versus post-refi really quickly? That was a mid-60s LTV on the asset Rich.
Research Division</strong> Okay I mean what about previously? Our total investment in the asset in the low-50s.
It's $53 million or $54 million.
So we've taken more than our basis out of the asset at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I know obviously cash is fungible but just a question on sources and uses.
It does say that part of the excess proceeds from the refi could go towards the remaining funding needs for the Hilton Garden Inn.
You've got an untapped revolver -- I think it's priced at less than 2%.
Why not fund some of that off the revolver and just pay it down over time? I think our view on the -- generally on funding the Times Square is that we wanted to make sure we maintained significant capacity for that funding which we did through some of our earlier in the year financing Salt Lake City as well as the upcoming sale of Torrance.
We're going to end the year with about $145 million in cash.
The reason why we are -- we have a bias to keeping the line dry is we get generally as an organization have a bias against corporate debt from a risk mitigation strategy.
But also as we look forward towards our refinancing in 2015 and 2016 we want to keep that line dry as an option for funding those refinancings in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And really lastly just one quick question on the guidance for '13 I don't want to fixate too much on the fourth quarter but just given what you know about the portfolio today as far as we are into the quarter it does seem like between the high and the low there's a $10 million GAAP in terms of EBITDA.
What uncertainty does that maybe reflect for the rest of the year if any if I'm reading that correctly? Rich this is Mark.
We're still sitting here getting our October results in and finalizing those.
They're in the quarter for the quarter group business pick up they exceeded their expectations last quarter.
We're comfortable with the guidance range so we reaffirm the guidance range.
There are several million dollars of variability based on how the group plays out how the ultimate government shutdown plays out.
So we wanted to keep the range the way it was.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the Courtyards it came out of the renovation.
I know they're running really high occupancy and I think you talked about rate lift you expect to get.
I don't think a lot of it came through in the third quarter.
Is that just the timing functions taking another quarter to ramp up or how should we look at those going forward? Chris it's Rob it's a great question.
I was just on the property on Wednesday for a very long meeting.
We're spending an enormous amount of time on this sale strategy and we're finding new opportunities there.
So we see additional growth factors at both Q4 and well into 2014 as well.
Just to give you one example we went out just to the neighborhood campus found a new group -- new corporate account that can potentially bring us a thousand rooms on an annualized basis.
I met with the meeting planner on Wednesday at the property and just said thank you for coming through and she just raved about the renovation the room size of the hotel and just said she can't believe at what an incredible product there is like that in New York City.
So we feel very good about the future for this -- for the rate growth of this asset.
Chris this is Sean.
The other thing worth noting is our third quarter because of the 20 less days is not really comparable for our Marriott assets.
When you think of how they -- how both those assets performed relative to our expectations at the beginning of the quarter they both outperformed.
So we're pretty -- we're pleased with the direction that they're going.
Clearly Rob is going to a spend a lot of time to maximize the operations of those hotels.
But the third quarter it's just -- it's very noisy on a year-over-year comps so I would caution you against reading anything into the third quarter on a standalone basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then on the sales you talked about 2 more planned within the next 18 months.
I guess -- I thought maybe it might be -- a number a little bit higher than that.
Are those 2 pretty firm and then there are others that you're just kind of looking at opportunistically? Or do you think you're not likely to sell more than 2? Chris we really like our portfolio today.
There are a couple of assets that we consider monetizing but we're trying to be very careful about not rushing the market when we think that there is increased value in the assets.
So we're being very thoughtful.
There's 2 that are teed up if we move through those 2 then there might be 1 or 2 behind that.
But we don't want to -- generally we love our assets.
In fact there's a huge pool to monetize here.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally on the -- I know you talked a lot about group pick up kind of in the quarter for the quarter.
Do you think -- 2 part question.
I mean do you think group behavior is changing at all in terms of waiting which I guess intuitively wouldn't make much sense given the high occupancy levels? But also do you think that's a function of just kind of things getting better? Or was there some catch up there from some of the things that didn't come through earlier in the year? I think it's that things are getting a bit better I don't believe it was catch-up.
It was just companies are realizing the importance of having meetings and we're just seeing the short-term side of it growing every quarter which is very encouraging to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Mark I just wanted to ask you a little bit about the flow-through as you expect for about 2/3 of the EBITDA that's not been renovated this year into next year.
What do you think we could get -- I mean would it be kind of a 1.5x flow-through or 50% flow-through or would it be something more? Any color on that would be appreciated.
Sure let me just -- a couple of things.
Let me clear up that -- we have 1/3 of our portfolio but it does get renovated from this $140 million capital program.
A lot of our other assets have been renovated in the prior 3 years.
So it's not like they're -- we're going in with the balance that's all in need of capital most of it is in fantastic shape.
As far as flow-through we're right now in the midst of budget season and rolling up.
The group obviously will be good and that will help flow-through next year but I think it's too early for us to give you an evaluation of what the flow-through is going to be until we get through the budgets.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just in terms of Washington D.C.
as it impacts your portfolio it seems like your pace is very strong for D.C.
next year.
Would you -- how would you characterize your portfolio to maybe do a little bit better than what the rest of the market does next year? For Washington D.C.
yes we do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned a couple of assets that are in asset sale process right now.
Any sense of like what that might fetch? We don't have anything else that's eminent right now.
We usually don't talk -- our policy is not to talk until we have something under binding contract or already sold.
As we said on our last earnings call there is about $150 million of assets we're looking to recycle so we've done about half of that with the Torrance Marriott sale.
The other 2 that were identified we're not in a rush to sell them for a price that doesn't make sense.
So we're trying to be very thoughtful about what we bring to market and what the best time is to sell those assets.
But again I think the 18 month timeframe is the right timeframe.
Research Division</strong> And these additional 2 assets where they contemplated in your remarks in the last quarter? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of David Loeb with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can I just go back to the guidance for a minute? Not to beat a dead horse but pretty much everyone else has decreased fourth quarter guidance.
You guys kept it the same but increased the disruption which is sort of a net increase.
Can you just give us a little more color about your confidence? Or perhaps some color on the government shutdown maybe that was less impactful for your guys? Sure David.
A couple of things to consider.
So our disruption went up about $2 million but as we mentioned as Sean just commented in the Q&amp;A we had outperformance particularly in the group side in the quarter.
So some of that's already been offset in the third quarter.
For the fourth quarter we have about 8% of our portfolio with D.C.
exposure so it's not a huge part of our business.
We've put in the government disruption to the best we can in our forecast.
But we have a pretty good handle on how the properties are going to do and feel comfortable with our current guidance and where we're going as a company.
Research Division</strong> So you didn't see any government-related weakness in other markets? There was sporadic.
There was sporadic impact in some of the other markets but generally those markets had strong enough transient demand to offset that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just to shift to acquisitions what's your thought your appetite for acquisitions and your view of the acquisition market here? You did sound pretty bullish on where we are in the cycle and on owning hotels at this point in the cycle.
So are you thinking of owning more? That's a great question David.
Well as you know and as we mentioned on our Investor Day 2013 has really been a focus on the capital program and internal opportunities.
As we move into 2014 we'll carefully evaluate our cost of capital and the opportunities that are in the marketplace.
But I would say that we are increasingly discerning as we move through the cycle.
But of course if we find a great deal that adds value for our shareholders we're going to carefully consider it.
Your next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich with Green Street.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us of the -- what the ADR gap was at the Lexington pre-renovation? And what are you guys targeting for that? The ADR gap from the closest competitor the Marriott East side? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Either that or just the local competition.
The ADR gap from the local competition the hotel ran around 80% of the ADR RevPAR penetration pre-renovation.
We expect the hotel to be able to make up that and be probably at parity if not a little above parity as we get fully ramped up as in autograph.
Lukas it's Mark.
This is another benchmark.
The closest competitor a block away and really the one that we used for underwriting an analysis.
There was pre-renovation about a $90 ADR gap.
We were running at higher occupancy but that $90 ADR gap for every dollar we can close that's about $250 000 of incremental revenue.
And we've underwrote to close about half of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great and then the -- on the Hilton Garden Inn I'm just curious if there are signage opportunities there.
And if there are what that is -- what that means for DiamondRock? Yes so our deal we bought this from a joint venture and so as you may recall this is a joint venture where they bought a distressed -- with that deal there were a couple of players.
One of those players controls the retail and the signage for both -- really the Knickerbocker and this site.
So they're going to retain those rights.
So really it's the hotel.
And that's one of the reasons our cost basis is so attractive at this kind of the simple location is for a hotel at $450 000 a key at this location we think we're getting a terrific bargain.
But we do not have the signage or the retail rights.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the group pace for next year.
It's pretty strong.
I wanted to ask how much of that group pace was related to citywide conventions and new markets? And if so are those city lines going to be recurring in '15 and beyond? Anthony it's Rob Tanenbaum.
A lot of the group pace is due to city-wides.
Boston in particular has a very very strong year.
And Boston has a strong year going into '15 as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just also just on the supply situation in New York.
There's a lot of supply coming on including from your own hotels.
How do you expect that to impact your current booking pace and your current -- and your ADR outlook for New York.
Our outlook for New York is strong.
We're spending quite a bit of time with our respective teams and analyzing these supply impact and how we're marketing and adjusting our marketing strategies with that.
But Anthony on the group side and the pace side we don't really own group hotels in New York.
So the group and -- pace is not really going to be impacted by a New York portfolio.
That's really our Boston Chicago and Minneapolis are the big drivers of our group pace.
Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> As we look to 2014 looks like you guys have a lot of momentum going into the year.
I just wondered if there's any difficult comps due to onetime events that we should be on the lookout for.
There's no specific onetime event that we think is going to be a major headwind going into next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would that apply to the margin front too or do you guys expect taxes or wages or anything just plain run rate for next year? On an overall portfolio basis we don't see anything that which should be a major headwind for us.
Now if things would come up but right now as we look forward what we say about property taxes and support cost wage models.
Most of those factors there's nothing that's imminent that we think is going to hold us back.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then we look at the changes -- of the changing of the personnel at a lot of the hotels.
Has this caused any short-term pain on the performance of these hotels? No we're working with the brands and it has not -- in fact what we're seeing is that change outs have created a huge upside from a -- both from an employee satisfaction standpoint and a guest satisfaction.
So we're seeing positive results quite quickly with those changes.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark there have been 2 unsolicited offers or hotel platforms in the past week do you think we're going to see more consolidation activity in the industry in the near term? And I guess what role do you see if any for DiamondRock? Okay let me take that gently.
There is -- there's kind of 2 phenomenons out there.
There is the private to public I'm on the side of the privates out there.
There's a ton of money on the sidelines that once again in lodging because if you think about the various asset classes lodging right now stacks up probably as the highest growth asset class.
And the financing markets have continued to get much much better and LTVs are going up in the -- they've got cheap meds and other financings for corporate transactions.
It's really quite phenomenal.
The deals that we've seen so far there's usually something inherent in those deals that the market probably doesn't fully appreciate.
So I think there'll be a lot of active capital in the sidelines.
I don't know how many offers for public companies the all-cash offers that are really going to mature and actually come to pass.
But I think that people are watching.
It's a very interesting asset class.
I think a lot of these companies are trading below NAV and so that activity will remain.
The public to public that's something we don't like to comment on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just related to this how do you think about the discount to replacement cost? You're talking about the acquisition market before but I'm curious if you think that gap is narrowing or if that gap is in fact closing at all just because other property types like multi-family or what not are bidding up land prices and just construction inputs.
Yes what we're watching now is obviously prices have increased in hospitality but the appetite for development sites and for alternative uses the cost of construction all those have increased a lot in the last 12 months.
So probably the discount to replacement cost is narrowed a little bit but it's still pretty wide when you're looking at the prices or current assets in the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> So is it fair to say I think you touched on it but do you think there's sufficient debt capital out there that to the extent there are private players out there looking for large portfolios regardless of where they're held -- so the higher leverage options are available for them? Yes there's a lot of private equity for the -- on the equity side and there's a lot of debt capital that's available today and I would say in the last 6 to 12 months the ability to get the higher leverage and lower-cost mezzanine debt has increased.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just switching gears actually just to your hotels how are you guys thinking about the Vail Marriott now that we're coming into season this year? And maybe as a follow-up Vail is looking to expand its summer season offerings in '14 and '15.
Have you guys been in talks with them about that initiative and maybe just curious of your thoughts on how that can impact? I'm just rounding out your year round demand and maybe how you think about valuation there.
Jeff it's Rob.
And we saw -- this past summer we saw incredible demand during the summer season.
Vail put out a just quite a bit of work up on the top of their mountain.
They've got to rub scores.
They've got quite a bit going on there.
So we're seeing incredible demand from just a leisure standpoint as well as the group focus as well utilizing our Marriott system.
We had very strong group during the summer months.
So we see the seasonality really being smoothed out.
I had previously asked the manager's hotel for host when I was with them back in late '90s early 2000.
It's incredible to see the difference over the last 10 years of how this market has truly become a much more year-round resort.
LLC Research Division</strong> And actually Rob is there any update on your thinking around converting the -- I think it's the northeastern university space in Boston back in the rooms? As we have 2 more years on that lease.
LLC Research Division</strong> Given any firm decisions or...
No not at this point.
There are no additional questions.
I would now like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Lisa.
To everyone on the call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and we look forward to updating you next quarter with our full year 2013 results.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to the Q4 2013 DiamondRock Hospitality Co earnings conference call hosted by DiamondRock Hospitality.
During the presentation your lines will remain on listen-only.
(Operator Instructions) I would like to advise all parties that this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
Now I would like to hand the call over to Mark Brugger President and Chief Executive Officer.
Welcome to DiamonRock’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Today I’m joined by Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer and Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer.
As usual we are required to give the prescribed legal preamble that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings.
Moreover as we discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
Let me start today’s prepared remarks with a few general observations about industry fundamentals.
We are currently in the middle of a solid lodging recovery driven by steady demand growth and limited new supply.
We are always monitoring trends and focus on tracking five key corollaries to hotel demand growth.
These corollaries are tracking well.
With employments trending up corporate profits at record levels unemployment declining consumer sentiment at a five year high and GDP forecasted to accelerate in 2014.
Interestingly current cycle GDP growth is tracking at a CAGR around 2.7% which is more than 30% below a normal recovery.
The silver lining of the slower than normal GDP growth is the delay of new hotel supply and potentially a more elongated lodging cycle.
Our own analysis gives us strong conviction in the continued strength of lodging fundamentals over the next several years and a firm belief that 2014 is a great time to invest in lodging.
Looking back at 2013 industry RevPar grew a healthy 5.4% as the supply/demand imbalance continued to favor lodging fundamentals.
Supply ran well below the historical average remaining muted in 2013 with growth under 1%.
Demand grew a solid 2% and set a new record for room nights sold.
Now against this positive industry backdrop let’s drill down into how we position DiamondRock to maximize long term value.
I would like to emphasize three strategic accomplishments during 2013.
First we made significant capital investments during 2013 that we expect to unlock tremendous upside potential at the renovated hotels.
The best example of this initiative is the Lexington Hotel which we transformed through a comprehensive renovation and rebranding that we expect to be a major growth catalyst in 2014 and 2015.
In addition to the Lexington we renovated seven other hotels.
Companywide our $140 million capital investment program is now substantially complete and has positioned DiamondRock for growth over the next several years.
The second strategic accomplishment I would point out is the enhancement of our asset management function which began last year with the hiring of Rob Tanenbaum as our chief operating officer.
Sean will provide an update on our progress in asset management in a few moments.
The third and final strategic accomplishment revolves around capital recycling.
We remain committed to creating value by selling non-core hotels and redeploying those proceeds into higher quality and higher growth hotels.
Specifically in 2013 we sold the Torrance Marriott a non-core hotel with an average RevPar below $100 at a 5.8% cap rate.
We will redeploy those proceeds into the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square which is expected to generate RevPar above $250 and be almost immediately accretive with a projected EBITDA yield of 9% in 2015.
Most importantly all of these strategic initiatives in 2013 were taken with one overarching goal position DiamondRock for outperformance going forward.
For 2013 we were pleased with our portfolio operating results.
Portfolio RevPar grew 5.3% excluding the three New York City hotels under renovation and the sold Torrance Marriott.
The RevPar increase was driven by the ability of our hotels to push rate which was up 3.5% as the majority of our hotels exceeded prior peak occupancy levels.
The RevPar growth led to hotel profit margin expansion of 45 basis points which would have been even better but for some onetime items that Sean will cover.
Turning to specific hotel results let me highlight several hotels that outperformed during 2013.
The Vail Marriott Mountain Resort was a top performer with RevPar growth of 15% and solid margin expansion.
The hotel implemented new revenue strategies and achieved record room rates during the holiday season.
We have identified new opportunities for this hotel including adding a resort fee and potentially adding valuable new keys.
The JW Marriott Denver had another strong year with RevPar growth of over 10%.
The hotel continues to be a market leader with market penetration index of over 130%.
The Lodge at Sonoma Resort was another top performer with RevPar increasing over 10%.
We instituted a new resort fee at the hotel in September which will contribute over $375 000 of EBITDA annually and boost margins.
In 2013 profit margins evidenced already strong growth of over 500 basis points at this hotel.
The Hilton Boston gained momentum during 2013 with the completion of a $7 million renovation and the implementation of our new sales strategy.
The hotel grew annual RevPar by 8.7% with growth accelerating each quarter culminating in 22% RevPar growth this past quarter.
The hotel gained over four percentage points of market share for the year.
Even more exciting we’ve identified a high ROI opportunity to create over 40 incremental rooms at this hotel by splitting underutilized suites.
The Westin San Diego was another success story in 2013 with RevPar growth of over 7% as our new revenue strategies allowed the hotel to gain more than 11 points of market share in the year.
As importantly just this month we completed a comprehensive renovation that’s fundamentally repositioned the hotel.
The renovation includes several ROI initiatives including the creation of two legal war rooms to capitalize on the new $300 million federal courthouse just across the street.
The hotel is really set up to succeed.
Before moving to our outlook let me provide an update on the renovation and rebranding of the Lexington Hotel which was completed late 2013.
This is one of the most exciting projects that DiamondRock has ever undertaken.
Our investment thesis was straightforward buy an under branded and undercapitalized hotel in an A+ location and then make capital investments to reposition and up brand the hotel from a Radisson to Marriott’s autograph collection.
We are already seeing early signs of success with post renovation rate growth of approximately $40 and more than 60% of the business now coming from Marriott reward members.
As significant the mix shift to higher paying segments is ahead of schedule with 80% of our revenues generated from premium business transient customers.
A powerful change from the pre-conversion mix that had 80% of its revenue come from the lower rated leisure discount segment.
Part of this early success is attributable to the great reception for premier special corporate accounts such as Accenture JP Morgan General Dynamics and PWC.
We expect the hotel to continue to ramp in 2014 and 2015.
Our outlook for DiamondRock reflects those positive industry dynamics and our unique drivers.
Today we announced a dividend increase of 21% and introduced 2014 guidance of RevPar growth of 9% to 11% adjusted EBITDA of $230 million to $240 million representing an almost 20% increase from 2013 at the midpoint of the range and adjusted FFO per share of $0.86 to $0.90.
The midpoint of our guidance range implies hotel adjusted EBTIDA margin expansion of over 250 basis points which is probably 100 to 150 basis points above industry average.
Our 2014 margin expansion is expected to recover more than half of the 200 basis point margin shortfall to our peers that occurred over the past few years.
This progress in closing the gap is a testament to the effectiveness of our new asset manage initiative led by Rob.
In addition we expect our margin expansion will likely exceed the industry average next year as well.
Our guidance reflects the fruits of our hard work in 2013.
During 2014 we expect to benefit from several company specific growth catalysts including above market growth at our renovated hotels traction from new asset management initiatives strong group pace and the acquisition of the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square.
Group pace group pace for 2014 is up a robust 9% which will add compression and allow our hotels to push rates across all segments in 2014.
There are a number of specific group drivers within our portfolio.
Our two Boston hotels the Westin Boston Waterfront and the Hilton Boston Downtown Faneuil Hall are collectively pacing up 20% benefitting by Boston record city wides up over 40% in room nights from last year.
Also group will exceed prior peak levels at the Frenchman’s Reef and Morning Star Resorts up over 50%.
Other standouts on the group front include the Worthington Renaissance and the JW Marriott Denver.
One final update the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central is currently completing development is progressing well and we expect it to open later this summer.
This will arguably be the best located urban select service hotel in Manhattan.
It is worth noting that we put the hotel under contract at a fixed price over three years ago.
Hence we are paying 2011 prices for a 2014 hotel.
At $450 000 per key we believe this extraordinarily well located hotel will immediately create real shareholder value.
Our guidance implies roughly $5 million EBITDA from the hotel this year.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Sean Mahoney our CFO who will provide additional detail on our operating results and balance sheet.
Before discussing our fourth quarter results I want to emphasis that fourth quarter prior year comparisons are slightly impacted by Marriott’s reporting calendar change.
The Marriott Hotel fourth quarter includes five more days than last year which results in approximately 3% additional room nights this quarter.
Please note that this is the last time that our quarterly comparisons will be impacted.
In addition on another housekeeping item the pro forma RevPar and margin data excludes the Torrance Marriott which was sold during the fourth quarter.
Now let’s turn to the fourth quarter numbers.
Overall it was another solid quarter.
The company reported hotel adjusted EBITDA of $52.8 million corporate adjusted EBITDA of $49.3 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.17.
While overall results were in line with our expectations the portfolio results were negatively impacted by softness in the New York City lodging market and lower than expected group and transient pickup in Chicago.
Fortunately the impact of these markets was mostly offset by a strong quarter at the Vail Marriott and outperformance at our Boston hotels Frenchman’s Reef and Alpharetta Marriott.
The fourth quarter reflected some exceptionally strong results as many of our hotels with six hotels reporting double digit RevPar growth.
Our portfolio generated pro forma Rev Par growth of 3.3% which was the result of a 3.8% increase in rates slightly offset by a small decline in occupancy primarily in our New York City hotels.
Our fourth quarter pro forma hotel adjusted EBITDA margins contracted 188 basis points.
Our margins were negatively impacted by approximately 115 basis points from several onetime drivers including: transitions costs incurred in conjunction with the rebranding of the Lexington Hotel; manager and brand changes at the Oak Brook Hills Resort; the addition of franchise fees at the Lexington Hotel as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 when the property was independent and paid no franchise fees; property tax increases at our hotels in Chicago and ramping union costs at the Boston Hilton.
Overall we were pleased with the portfolio’s performance during the quarter and full year.
Excluding the three renovated New York City hotels we achieved 2013 RevPar growth of 5.3%.
The year-to-date RevPar growth led to house profit margin expansion of 68 basis points and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 45 basis points.
Similar to the fourth quarter full year margin expansion was held back by approximately 90 basis points due to a few specific items such as: the onetime Lexington Hotel relaunch costs; increase in property taxes; and the Hilton Boston union costs.
Now let me spend a few minutes highlighting some individual hotel achievements.
The Vail Marriott had a tremendous quarter achieving nearly 30% RevPar growth and approximately 1 300 basis points of house profit margin expansion.
Hotel revenues increased over 32% as a result of several factors including: our record Christmas week a 63% increase in group revenues; and the implementation of a resort fee which generated approximately $200 000 of incremental revenue during the quarter.
The Charleston Renaissance achieved impressive RevPar growth of 17.9% and 567 basis points of hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion.
The hotel benefitted from the successful implementation of an aggressive strategy to drive incremental rates.
The Alpharetta Marriott was another bright spot for the company with 13.8% RevPar growth and an impressive 946 basis points of margin expansion.
The hotel has benefitted from the recent moves by General Motors and Ernest &amp; Young into Alpharetta.
Frenchman’s Reef hit its stride during the fourth quarter with RevPar growth of 12.8% and 286 basis points of hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion.
The Boston Hilton grew fourth quarter RevPar 22% and picked up 9.5 percentage points of market share both great data points that reinforce our decision to introduce a new revenue management strategy at that hotel.
Partially offset these performances was the New York market which faced difficult hurricane Sandy comparisons.
Additionally the historically predictable special event generators of the New York City Marathon and the Thanksgiving Day Parade were less robust than usual.
Despite the challenging market the Lexington Hotel gained 6.8 percentage points of market share during the fourth quarter as a result of the successful repositioning and rebranding of the hotel.
In addition our Chicago hotel finished modestly behind expectations due to a challenging Chicago market where city wide activity was down 30%.
This contributed to group slippage at the Chicago Marriott and part of our ability to push transient rate at the Conrad Chicago.
Shifting gears to our group business our in the quarter group pick up increased 35% compared to what we picked up in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our group business is well positioned to outperform in 2014 with group revenue pace up 9%.
Our 2014 group pace is being driven by a 5% increase in rooms and approximately 4% increase in average daily rates.
We enter the year with 71% with the forecasted group business on the books.
Before discussing the balance sheet let me provide an update on the asset management initiatives that Rob and his team have put in place to create value in 2014 and beyond.
Our asset management team has spent significant time identifying opportunities to improve sales strategies and implement cost containment initiatives.
We are pleased with the progress the portfolio has achieved to date and we see a number of additional significant opportunities.
Let’s start with a summary of our revenue management achievement.
First we identified opportunities to add resort fees at Sonoma and Veil.
This initiative resulted in $300 000 of incremental revenues during the fourth quarter and we expect to earn approximately $800 000 during 2014.
Second we identified a number of hotels with basic revenue enhancement opportunities such as reclassifying rooms to premium tier rooms which has enabled us to increase rates.
We estimate that these initiatives resulted in approximately $100 000 of incremental revenues during the fourth quarter.
Third we took advantage of favorable demand trends in certain markets to aggressively drive rates.
Specific successes included the restricting last room availability at the Charleston Renaissance which contributed to a 13.7% rate growth.
We also took advantage of a strong Christmas week at Vail Marriott.
The hotel achieved a record average rate of over $1 400 which contributed to over 18% rate growth during the fourth quarter.
Rob and our asset management team are working diligently to identify additional revenue opportunities in 2014 and we’re confident in our ability to do so.
We expect our renovated hotels including the Westin Washington DC the San Diego Westin and the Lexington Hotel to leverage their 2013 renovation and deliver double digit rate growth in 2014.
In addition we expect the recent implementation of a new revenue management strategy at the Conrad Chicago to take hold in 2014 and to contribute to double digit rate growth at the hotel.
We are also working to identify cost containment opportunities across the portfolio.
Examples include the opportunity to eliminate redundant positions at several hotels as well as consolidate operations with expected annual savings close to $1 million implementing energy conservation projects throughout the portfolio including lighting retrofits and installing low flow plumping fixtures at certain hotels.
In total the average payback of these projects is two to three years.
An example was the installation of low flow toilets at the Boston Westin that resulted in an immediate 24% reduction in water consumption.
We restructured outdoor maintenance contracts at 17 of our hotels resulting in over $170 000 of cost savings.
Finally we restructured the parking contract at five hotels which are expected to result in $500 000 of annual savings.
Another asset management focus has been the evaluation of value creation ROI opportunities within our existing real estate.
We have uncovered many and the most significant prospects of successes are as follows: we added 15 incremental rooms to the Lexington Hotel during the 2013 renovation.
We added five new rooms to the Courtyard Midtown East during the 2013 renovation and are evaluating adding two more rooms through splitting two existing suites.
We expect to add over 40 additional rooms to the Boston Hilton through splitting existing suites.
We expect to add 13 new rooms at the Vail Marriott through splitting four underutilized suites and reconfiguring a corridor to allow for nine additional rooms.
We expect to add four new rooms at the Westin Washington DC through the elimination of an outdated presidential suite and conversion of an underutilized meeting room.
We expect to add three new rooms at the Lodge at Sonoma by moving an existing meeting room and fitness center to space that is currently vacant.
We plan to convert unfinished space at the Boston Westin into 6 500 square feet of valuable meeting space with an estimated IOR over 2%.
I also wanted to touch on steps we are taking at the Oak Hill Brook Resort formerly the Oak Hill Brook Marriott.
During the fourth quarter we exercised our rights under the management contract to terminate Marriott as both brand and manager to enhance exit value and to provide operating flexibility.
The hotel is now known as the Oak Hill Brook Resort an independent conference facility and is operated by Destination Hotels &amp; Resorts a leader in that segment.
We believe we have only begun to maximize opportunities in our portfolio.
As we look ahead we remain confident that our asset management team will continue to identify more opportunities as we delve deeper into the hotels with new ideas.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet and capital allocation.
We believe that Diamond Rock’s balance sheet is among the best of any lodging REIT.
We have consistently maintained a straightforward and low risk balance sheet that has essentially no corporate debt.
We adhere to a disciplined capital structure philosophy that rests on five principles.
First we believe that maintaining low leverage is the most prudent strategy for a public lodging REIT.
Based on our base case long range projections which assume no new equity issuance we expect net debt to EBITDA of less than three times by 2016.
Second we believe that our capital structure acts as a defensive tool to mitigate the risk of lodging cycle volatility.
Third we continue to believe in the value of a simple capital structure and have a bias against preferred and converts.
Fourth we preserve significant borrowing capacity by maintaining approximately half of our portfolio unencumbered by mortgage debt.
Fifth we have a bias against corporate debt and currently have nothing drawn on our line of credit.
Our conservative balance sheet is a key element of our strategy that we believe will enable DiamondRock to deliver superior shareholder returns across the lodging cycle with less risk.
Another benefit of our long standing conservative balance sheet is the ability to pay a meaningful and sustainable dividend.
Since our IPO we’ve returned approximately $450 million to our shareholders through dividends.
Today we are proud to announce a 21% increase in our 2014 dividend which reflects our confidence in DiamondRock’s ability to fire on all cylinders during 2014.
The current dividend yield is very competitive at approximately 3.3%.
This past year we took several actions to position ourselves for the coming year with the refinancing of the Salt Lake City Marriott and the disposition of the Torrance Marriott.
As a result of these actions and excess cash flow we ended 2013 with approximately $145 million of corporate cash which provides us with the option to fund the Time Square acquisition with existing cash on hand.
We will continue to focus on prudent capital allocation and be thoughtful in positioning the balance sheet for upcoming capital needs.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
To sum up our team is energized about the momentum at DiamondRock and our ability to create shareholder value in 2014.
The lodging market dynamics are positive and the execution of our strategic plan over the past few years will start to pay off in 2014.
Consider that the midpoint of our guidance what we believe to be the most likely case translates into double digit RevPar growth EBITDA margin growth of over 250 basis points adjusted EBITDA growth of almost 20% and a 21% dividend increase.
Moreover we enter 2014 with low leverage $145 million of cash on hand and an already lined up acquisition of a brand new hotel in a world class location.
We have worked hard to put ourselves into the position to deliver strong shareholder returns and we remain excited about the future of DiamondRock.
On that note we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of David Loeb from Baird.
Mark I appreciate your comment about the upcoming acquisition of the New York asset and particularly Sean’s comments about using the cash on hand to fund that.
But I wonder if you could talk a little bit more about your interest in additional acquisitions? What’s your appetite what are you seeing in the market what are your expectations in terms of your ability to find attractively priced acquisitions in this environment? On future acquisitions we are seeing some deal flow out there but not a tremendous volume probably something similar to last year’s pace.
As you know in 2013 we just focused on executing the value add opportunities of the stuff we bought.
Going forward we’re going to remain disciplined.
I think you’ll see us be opportunistic but measured as deals surface and as we track down deals in the marketplace.
That may mean we do deals this year or may not depending on what the pricing is in the marketplace.
But our expectation is to actively look but only pursue deals if that makes sense for our shareholders.
Next question is from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Thanks it’s Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
You guys have talked over the past several quarters about public hotel REITs trading at discounts to NAVs and I was just wondering if you could give us your updated thoughts on public valuations today and then sort of how you stack that up against potential dispositions going forward? Our perspective is that although the lodging stocks have moved up they’re still generally trading in at some discount to NAV.
Certainly we think our stock is trading at a discount to NAV currently.
If you look at the recent transactions in the marketplace it looks like in the desirable markets there’s even been some cap rate compression I think because there’s been a supply demand imbalance of high quality acquisition in the marketplace.
So that does bode well for selling non-core assets although the compression hasn’t been the same in the non-core markets.
But as you know we sold the Torrance Marriott for what we call a very attractive price last quarter and we’ll continue to look at the few non-core hotels that we have and potentially monetizing those over the next 24 months.
Are you currently marketing any hotels today? We don’t comment on our disposition efforts until we have something under a binding contract.
Then another one is the resorts segment as you guys mentioned outperformed pretty handedly in 4Q and I’m just curious what your expectation was for this group of hotels in 2014? If you could sort of stack that up versus the non-New York City RevPar growth of 5.5% to 7.5%? We feel we’ve made strategic moves in our resort properties over the past year and we feel we’re positioning the assets appropriately so we’re looking for upsize growth in both Frenchman’s Reef Sonoma and Vail.
Sean it’s Jordan here with Austin just a quick one following up on your five principles surrounding sort of the balance sheet I’m curious on the aversion to preferred any thoughts on that? That’s something we’ve held near and dear to our hearts since we formed the company.
Our view on preferred is that it is more of a debt type instrument than an equity instrument.
That’s our bias and with that in mind when we compare the cost of preferred relative to what we can borrow 10 year fixed at the spread is significantly lower for the 10 year fixed so we’ve made those decisions to go with 10 year fixed over the last number of years.
It is more a function of cost as opposed to the structure of the instrument? Correct.
We view it as more of a debt instrument so if we would issue preferred we would view that as increasing our leverage.
Next question comes from Anthony Powell from Barclays.
Just a quick question on your RevPar guidance of 9% to 11% including the New York hotels [inaudible] gotten off to a strong start and I understand that our renovations can drive some outsized RevPar growth in ’14 but the market has been kind of weak there both in the fourth quarter and so far this year what gives you confidence that you’ll be able to generate some share gains in New York given the kind of overall supply growth and softness so far this year? Our expectation for New York obviously there’s a number of things going on in the New York market including tough comparisons with Sandy in the first quarter as well as new supply entering the market in 2014.
Our assumption for our hotels a lot of that is based on recovering the renovation disruption from 2013 from rooms that were out of service during those renovations and then the market share gains that we expect at the Lexington.
We’re not expecting a robust market in New York for 2014 but we are expecting to recover the renovation disruption from last year and then make market share gains based on the renovation and brand change at the Lexington hotel.
To sort of further that point during the fourth quarter which was soft in New York the Lexington gained 6.8 percentage points of market share during the quarter despite a very difficult fourth quarter environment for New York so we feel confident in the ability of that hotel which is really the lion’s share of our New York City portfolio.
There were 86 000 room nights that were out of service in that hotel in 2013 which is very dramatic relative to total available rooms within our New York City portfolio.
Just a follow up on the last question given some of the discounts we’re seeing to NAV in the lodging REIT space have you considered share buybacks? I think some of your competitors are looking at that more closely.
That’s a great question.
We actually put in a share buyback program late last year.
Our stock rallied about 25% shortly thereafter but it is something we have a constant dialog with our Board about evaluating that option but we certainly have that tool in our tool chest and evaluate it on a regular basis.
Moving onto our next question is from the line of Thomas Allen from Morgan Stanley.
I may have missed this but what was group RevPar up in 2013? I believe it was tracking up in the high single digits as of last quarter.
Then you’re guiding to group pace of 9% to 14% versus a lot of the C-Corps have been discussing kind of low to mid single digit growth.
How long do you think you can continue to outperform on the group front? Our group revenue was up about 2.8% during the year and that was - the fourth quarter was a difficult group quarter for the portfolio specifically our Chicago market which really dominates our portfolio on the group side so that did come down from what we reported from the third quarter.
We tried to telegraph that in our commentary on prior earnings calls that our group was front end loaded for 2013.
On ’14 we have a high degree of confidence in our group.
We’re at 9% is our pace which is roughly 5% rooms and 4% rate.
Boston really dominates our 2014 group pace which is up about 20% for those two hotels.
In addition we had our Worthington assets and Frenchman’s Reef both had very strong 2014 group outlook.
In addition the Minneapolis Hilton which actually doesn’t have a great city wide activity in 2014 for groups has been making great strides in picking up group business in the fourth quarter.
They picked up over $2 million in group business and ended the year positive in group pace for ’14 where two quarters ago we were down about 15%.
So they’ve made great strides in picking up group business for ’14 over the last couple of quarters and we hope that that momentum continues into 2014.
Would your view be that the 2014 group pace is probably a balance between one off things like strong city wides and then just improvement in attracting business and so you can kind of continue that performance in 2015/2016? We feel very good about our pace for ’14.
I think when you look at the momentum the second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter all had significant additional group revenues booked at the same time in the prior year so the momentum continues to bode well for group into ’14.
It’s too early really to comment much on 2015 because we’re a year out but our ’14 picture is a combination of momentum as well as clearly our market concentration in a market like Boston which has got tremendous city wide activity in 2014.
To further support what Sean was saying in Q4 for 2014 we picked up 6.4% [inaudible] in our revenue group revenues that’s $2 million more than last year and the majority of that was in room nights but there was also some growth in rate as well.
Your next question comes from Chris Woronka – Deutsche Bank.
I wondered if you could maybe share with us kind of the ramp up of Lexington by month in the fourth quarter and maybe where you are in the first quarter so we can get an idea of the trajectory? Yes.
Lexington in the fourth quarter the renovation was completed in October of 2013.
November started out quite nicely.
October was a strong month as well and then November was a little bit challenging with the New York City marathon and softness from the Macy’s Day Parade.
The third week of Thanksgiving being delayed certainly impacted the market more than what was previously thought.
December the first two weeks came in strong we had a nice year end as well so we were really pleased with our growth as Sean stated and Mark had stated.
60% of our business is coming from Marriott Rewards Members and 80% of our revenue is being driven by the special corporate and business transient accounts.
In January we had 23% growth in our RevPar there.
We feel very confident where we’re moving.
We had a very strong Super Bowl weekend and we like what’s being received.
What we’re hearing back from our clients especially from special corporate accounts is very encouraging as we sign up new accounts it feels like on a daily basis which is very much encouraging that the response is very well received as well as the press that we’re getting is really positioning this hotel to be in the forefront.
I think you guys had mentioned that the total full year 2013 renovation disruption was $17 million of EBITDA.
Can you just break that down for us between Lex and the Courtyards and also how confident you are in getting the rates up at Courtyard this year in New York? The majority of the disruption was the Lex.
The Lex of the $17 million the disruption was about $15 million to $15.5 million of the disruption and then the Courtyard each had call it about $1 million of disruption between those two hotels.
Then just on the group pace you guys mentioned you’re 71% booked for the year.
If you get to 100 of what you’re budgeting is that kind of in the middle of your RevPar how do you guys correlate your RevPar growth guidance to where you are on groups right now? We’re [inaudible] to reach 100%.
That won’t be the sole determinate on how we come out on our guidance.
We’re about 30% 32% 33% groups depending on how the numbers play out.
The business transient is probably the bigger variable in where we come out for the full year guidance so we expect to have a good group year.
Certainly we have over 70% under contract on the books today.
The new period books is very obtainable so I would expect we’re going to succeed on the group side.
I think again the bigger variable is going to be on the business transient and how the back half of the year ends up.
Your next question comes from Andrew Didora – Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Mark I think you noted in your prepared remarks that the Hilton Boston gained some momentum after the renovation and then as well as implementing your new sales strategy.
I know the change in the sales strategy was one of the key points when you bought the portfolio of assets from Blackstone.
Can you talk about some of the changes that you made and if all these have been rolled out to the three other hotels you bought from them? Yes we’ve been consistent in focusing our teams on a revenue management strategy so that has gone out to all the hotels.
We’ve also looked at enhancing all of our food and beverage as well so revenue management goes beyond just rooms but also in food and beverage.
So all those strategies are being implemented on all those four properties.
Some of the examples of what we’re doing is we’re look at for example advance purchasing increasing our average length of stay doing our standard room type restrictions managing discounts and strategically overbooking to create the perfect sell.
A really great example that we had recently was at the Denver Courtyard where we changed our room type category so our rooms facing 16<sup>th</sup> Street would have a higher premium and in December alone we generated over $18 000 in incremental revenue.
Pretty amazing for a hotel that size.
But we’re also focused not beyond that but in looking at all our assets in terms of the GDS advertising and our eCommerce as well.
From a cost containment perspective again we’re looking at as Sean mentioned our labor consolidation energy management and our telephone maintenance and our parking restructuring our contracts.
I would just add clearly it helped in Boston we saw a lot of upside that was part of the real investment thesis there and you saw the momentum building to 22% RevPar in the last quarter and the hotel continues to gain market share gains four points of market share for the full year and really building market share gains as it moves through the year.
The San Diego Westin which was another large asset in that portfolio that one really outperformed the market in 2013 gaining 11 points of market share.
RevPar was up over 7% there in a market that was relatively weak.
We stole a lot of market share and really now with the renovations just completed in the last two weeks we would expect to gain even more so that one is fully kicking in with the strategies that Rob is helping employ at that hotel.
DC Westin I would say it just finished a massive renovation about seven days ago and that was a very intrusive renovation so that one I expect to gain traction as we move forward from the first quarter on.
Both in ’14 and ’15 we expect to be in a lot of the market share at that hotel not only with the new revenue strategies but we basically have a new hotel which is really the DC Westin which was taking an entire box putting the right capital into it and capturing a lot of pent up demand for those premium Starwood customers that want to be in DC.
Just to add on to what Mark was saying an example of the impact of our renovation in DC we just booked a $100 000 piece of business in July and while the hotel was under renovation our sales manager was extremely creative and took his iPad and gave a tour through Facetime.
The client couldn’t make it down because of the snowstorm which resulted in after having the tour and speaking with our sales manager booked sight unseen essentially.
He just loved what we were doing in terms of renovation and the new product that was being presented.
I had one other for Sean it’s a little bit more of a housekeeping question what was the change in the restricted cash balance in 4Q? The change in restricted cash is escrow as well as cap ex funds.
We used some of the cap ex funds during the fourth quarter for the renovations.
When you look at the renovation dollars – so what we did for financing is we had to set aside escrows for the year-over-year change for both San Diego as well as Washington DC renovations and then we had restricted cash also being set aside at a percentage of revenues.
So primarily it’s the restricted cash held for renovations or escrow going up.
Your next question comes from Ryan Meliker – MLV &amp; Co.
I was hoping you could help me understand some of the math behind your guidance.
Help me to understand what I’m missing or if things are just relatively conservative but if you had total hotel revenue of $800 million on a pro forma basis in 2013 and the midpoint of your guidance is 10% RevPar growth and you’ve got property margins of 25.8% in 2013 and the midpoint of your guidance is 2.5 percentage points of market expansion to 28.3% that gets me to hotel EBITDA of around $246 million.
You add in the Hilton Garden in Times Square which I’m assuming you’re still expecting about $5 million incrementally and that’s $250 million in property EBITDA.
What am I missing here? Obviously maybe some of it is that non-room revenue isn’t going to grow by that 10% level but it seems like there’s got to be something bigger than that to get back to the midpoint of $235 million in adjusted EBITDA.
That’s exactly it we expect our F&amp;B revenue to grow a little under 5% for the year which is non-rooms revenue is about 35% of our total revenue and so with that half of the growth that’s going to impact obviously you’re 10% growth there is $7 or $8 million doing quick math in my head so that’s the primary driver.
That’s the primary driver so it’s not corporate G&amp;A or anything like that going higher it’s just your other revenue that’s not going to grow quite as robustly?  Correct.
Embedded within our guidance is actually a slight decline in corporate G&amp;A year-over-year.
The [inaudible] which is the other driver which is not an hotel adjusted EBITDA is going to be roughly this year to last year it will be up a few $100 000 of adjusted EBITDA and FFO year-over-year but the primary driver of both our margins and RevPar is going to be hotel op.
Another question I wanted to ask you guys about was between your guidance for the Lexington I think you guys had talked about if I recall a $40 ADR premium with what you had been underwriting.
Is that what’s in your guidance for 2014 or is that something that’s going to play out through 2016 as you had talked about kind of the longer timeline in terms of getting to that 22% revenue growth CAGR? Let me go back and kind of parse it.
There are two things going on one we’re going to recover renovation disruptions from last year which will help obviously the RevPar year-over-year as the occupancy rebuilds from that comparison.
The investment thesis was looking at the rate differential between our hotel and the closest competitor the ADR gap was about $90 to $100.
We underwrote closing about half that gap that hit our underwriting.
We think we’ll be there by the end of 2015.
It takes generally two years to get the juice out of a brand conversion to get the reidentity launched to get all the special corporate accounts in to get the first time trials so we expect to gain a lot of traction this year but almost have more growth in ’15 on the rate side compared to the competitive hotel in 2015 as ’14.
Your next question comes from Ian Weissman – ISI Group.
Maybe if you could give a little more details on this additional $50 million of new capital investment in 2014? Are there other major projects that you’re targeting for renovation this year? The $50 million is generally a pretty cyclical run rate for a portfolio our size.
That includes everything from boilers and chillers to some ROI projects that are in there as well.
There’s nothing that we think will be materially disruptive in the 2014 numbers.
There aren’t any enormous projects that we’re going to announce.
As Sean mentioned there are a number of ROI things like some incremental keys.
Some of that is in there yet some is not approved but we do have the moving space conversion of unused space at the Boston Westin and there’s a number of smaller initiatives kind of sprinkled throughout the portfolio to kind of help margin growth this year.
But $50 million isn’t far off from what you should think of as the long term average investment in our portfolio annually.
Just quickly you just came off of ALIS you talked briefly about deals and maybe being a buyer this year.
Maybe you could just comment about which property types you’re seeing the best opportunities for deals over the next six months? What our comment was earlier on the Q&amp;A is that we are going to actively look in 2014.
We’re going to be very disciplined.
Obviously I think pricing given the supply/demand imbalance of high quality deals is difficult.
We like the markets we’re in we would double exposure in a number of those markets.
In New York we’re probably at our limit just from a diversification standpoint but certainly a market like Boston Miami Seattle LA are the markets that we want to add exposure to over time.
But in addition to markets it’s a matter of finding good opportunities that meeting our underwriting.
So some of the markets have gotten quite heated and it’s probably difficult to create shareholder value by entering those markets right now.
We’ll also look for other trend lines that we can catch.
For instance our resort portfolio although 15% of our EBITDA has been tremendously successful and we think some of these smaller resorts in very high barrier to entry markets is a good place to play so that will be a place that we’ll be looking where there is probably not as much competition and we can probably create some value there.
Your next question comes from Wes Golladay – RBC Capital Markets.
Going back to the Hilton Boston downtown it looks like you had pretty impressive RevPar growth but the margins were only about 120 basis points in the quarter.
Is there anything one time holding that back? What was holding back is the ramping up of the unionization of the property so union dues impacted Q4 for us.
Just to add on to that when we bought the hotel it had signed a union contract which was ramping up which is part of our underwriting so we expect to make our money on that hotel both in the revenue growth and in splitting the suites and creating 40 incremental keys.
That’s really going to be unlocking the value there.
We get to the lapping effect on the union contract as we move into 2014 and then we should expect kind of standard margin growth with RevPar growth there going forward.
We expect approximately about $360 000 of additional ramp this year for that hotel for the union ramp up compared to 2013 just as you think through the modeling.
That compares to about between $1.2 million and $1.3 million this year so the lapping effect is pretty significant in 2014.
So probably one more quarter of it and we’ll be done with it? A quarter or quarter and a half.
Going back to the question about the F&amp;B growth what are you seeing with that for this year and maybe next year with the group pace is up pretty strong and it looks like looking at your yearly results room revenue and food and beverage revenue growth were about the same? Are you expecting a material slowdown in the growth rate there or are you just being conservative on that point? We are expecting moderate growth on food and beverage.
Again as hotels fill in event periods for example Father’s Day or Labor Day or Fourth of July particularly groups that are not only rated but don’t have much F&amp;B contribution associated with it.
2013 we had some tremendous end of year pick up on group F&amp;B.
Particularly Chicago Marriott was a huge contributor of that this year for us which our guidance does not assume that repeats in 2014.
We’d obviously be thrilled if it did but our guidance does not assume that that history repeats itself.
Your next question comes from Lukas Hartwich – Green Street Advisors.
Most of my questions have been answered already.
I was just looking at page 20 of the press release and the hotel [recs] it looks like margins were down 600 basis points last year.
I’m just curious what drove that? What drove that was property taxes.
It was a larger driver of that as well as we had some higher A&amp;G costs with the transition.
Then the RevPar growth of that asset was about 5% last year and I forget off the he top of my head what San Francisco the market did but it seems like that asset is lagging a little bit in the revenue level is there any reason for that? We’ve changed out the revenue manager for that.
We just had some challenges in the way the pricing was occurring how they were analyzing the market so we figure we have that moving in the right direction.
For ’14 that’s an upside story the revenue manager kind of missed it a little bit in ’13 so as we changed out the revenue manager and have kind of the right system in there as we move into ’14 hopefully we’ll be able to recover some lost market share at that hotel and really perform well this year.
Your next question comes from William Crow – Raymond James &amp; Associates.
On the deflagging and contract management removal on the Marriott property can you just kind of tell us what caused that decision whether any money changed hands does that change or signal any sort of relationship with Marriott going forward or was that more of an attempt to sell the asset unencumbered eventually? You shouldn’t view it as a statement of our relationship with Marriott which remains strong.
As we talked about on prior calls that’s a non-core asset for us it’s our lowest rated by RevPar and it’s an asset we would like – it’s on our disposition list and over the next two years we will monetize that asset that’s our intent.
We had an opportunity under the contract because of the underperformance of the hotel to unencumber it by branded management which in that market increases your exit value and the number and players you can get on an asset like that so we took advantage of that opportunity to unencumber the asset.
We’re repositioning it we brought Destination in to reposition it.
That’s there power alley assets like this so they are actively working on that and they will position it and try to sell it as we move forward.
No compensation paid to Marriott I take it then? They gave us several million of key money and yield support since we bought the hotel and so that yield support and key money amortized over a period of about 10 years so there was a little unamortized money that we returned to them.
I think it was less than $1 million.
It was about $700 000 that we repaid to them under the contract.
Your next question comes from Steven Kent from Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Anto Savarirajan on for Steve Kent.
Looking at the last two tables of your press release how are we to think about what you would consider non-core or non-strategic? Some of the properties have margins that are lower than what you’d consider your target level EBITDA margins so can you help us frame what would be considered non-core or non-strategic? Also how many assets do you have in these buckets and slated for sale over the next 24 to 36 months.
If you look at what we’ve done this cycle on our disposition effort we’ve sold five hotels for about $400 million and then if you go back and look at the characteristics of those hotels all those hotels were in the bottom cortile of our portfolio measured both by average RevPar and by EBITDA per key or profit per key.
That’s clearly a metric that we’re looking at.
One of the things we’re trying to accomplish as active capital recyclers is always upgrading the quality and growth prospects of our company so when you look at our portfolio if you kind of rank what we have now by average RevPar or by profit per key the stuff that is in the bottom cortile is the stuff that is mostly likely to be considered non-core for us and active on our disposition list.
We’re not going to do another $400 million over the next couples of years.
We have a couple smaller to medium sized assets that might be on that list but generally our portfolio today is 26 hotels 27 with Times Square is a portfolio that we really like so you’ll see a measured disposition program over the next year or two but we really like our portfolio as it is today.
With regard to the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square do you have a sense of timing of openings of other new hotels in the same Times Square track this year? Is your thought process of opening it in August in part dependent on how and when these other assets or other hotels open? No we’re going to open it as soon as we possibly can.
I mean every day we’re not open will be a day of lost opportunity.
We think in this location obviously the demand is incredibly deep and we want to get open and start making money there as soon as possible.
Obviously we want to make sure we finish it in a quality fashion and have a smooth opening but I think in a market like that in Times Square the sooner you get it open the better.
One last one for me with regard to the goal of having a 50/50 split on brand versus third-party managers where do you now stand and where do you expect to exit 2014? With the acquisition of Times Square which will be a third-party manager we’re about 60/40 as a portfolio so we’re pretty close to our objective.
Then as we move forward that’s a goal but the number one goal on any acquisition is to create shareholder value whether it’s brand managed or third-party managed so that’s our magnetic north on deciding to do an acquisition.
But we think when we look at our portfolio especially with the bigger hotels which makes more sense to be brand managed and then some of the smaller to medium ones which make more sense we think to be third-party operated we have generally the optimal operator on each of our kind of asset within the portfolio.
So as we grow and with our five and six most recent acquisitions they are generally third-party managed.
But again we’re looking to create shareholder value and be opportunistic so we’re not going to not do a good deal because it’s brand managed.
We have no further questions in the queue.
To everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to next updating you with our first quarter results.
Thank you again.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your call for today.
Thank you for joining us.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Brett Stewart Director of Finance DiamondRock Hospitality Company.
Please proceed.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock Hospitality Company's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call and Webcast.
I'm here today with Mark Brugger our President and Chief Executive Officer; Sean Mahoney our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer.
Mark will provide an overview of the industry discuss the company's first quarter results and activities as well as discuss our outlook for the balance of 2014.
Sean will provide additional details on our first quarter performance as well as provide an update on our balance sheet and key asset management initiatives.
We'll then open the call for Q&amp;A.
But before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law and may not be historical fact.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
Moreover as management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mark Brugger our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Brett.
Let me start this call today by stating what has now become obvious lodging fundamentals are strong.
The supply-demand imbalance worked again in the industry in the first quarter.
Industry demand grew 3.8% against the backdrop of restrained supply growth of less than 1% or about 1/2 the historical average.
Building on these positive underlying trends the industry was able to drive a 6.8% RevPAR increase or about double the historical average.
DiamondRock's first quarter results met our internal expectations and outperformed the industry as our portfolio delivered 8.4% RevPAR growth.
Profits were up with hotel adjusted EBITDA margins expanding almost 100 basis points.
This strong start to the year provides positive momentum for the remainder of 2014.
The portfolio's outperformance in the quarter is attributable to company-specific catalysts.
The 3 most significant of which are as follows: one outsized growth from our recently completed $140 million renovation program; two enormous growth from the re-branding and renovation of the Lexington New York Hotel; and three strong group performance at several of our hotels.
We really like our group exposure group is a segment we've been constructive on for some time now.
It may be helpful for me to touch on each of these 3 key points in more depth.
First as I mentioned we will benefit from the recent investment of over $140 million in the high-impact hotel renovations the final phase of which was completed just in the last few months.
This capital program involved the renovation of over 1/3 of our portfolio since early last year.
The list of renovated hotels is a long one and includes our 2 New York City Courtyards; the Lexington Hotel; the Westin San Diego; the Hilton Boston; the Hilton Burlington; the Westin Washington D.C.
City Center; and the Hilton Minneapolis.
We expect a significant return on much of this investment both in 2014 and 2015 as guests and meaning players experience the renovated product and we start to move market share.
Second the renovation and rebranding of the Lexington Hotel now part of Marriott's Autograph Collection is ripening into a powerful growth catalyst for the company.
The Lexington stats in the first quarter were impressive achieving 57.5% RevPAR growth and nearly 2 000 basis points of margin expansion.
Moreover the Lexington is penetrating rival hotels gaining over 32 percentage points of market share during the quarter.
Importantly it is winning on both occupancy and rate.
Its share of ADR was up 11.5 percentage points in the quarter.
The hotel ramp is playing out as we hoped it would with 80% of its business now coming from the highest-rated business transient segment.
This success with transient is a testament to the power of Marriott's distribution system with fully over 50% of rooms sold coming through Marriott channels.
We are on track to meet our underwriting and deliver over $20 million of hotel-adjusted EBITDA during 2014 with several more years of upside.
In total we think hotel EBITDA has the potential to increase 50% by 2016 at the Lexington.
The third and final key point that should be highlighted relates to the group segment.
Our group segment which represents 32% of first quarter revenues outperformed.
First quarter group revenue increased 13% the highest across all our customer segments in addition our group spend a critical barometer of the segment strength grew over 8% during the quarter.
Group outperformance also led to 12% growth in the important area of banquet and catering sales.
This group strength was driven by our hotels in Boston Fort Worth St.
Thomas and Los Angeles more than offsetting weakness in Chicago and Minneapolis.
For our entire portfolio we project a group business at our hotels will outperform in 2014.
Although we expect a dip during the second quarter due to some cyclical city-wide calendars before reaccelerating into the third quarter.
I would like to now turn our attention to acquisitions and dispositions.
As you know DiamondRock has been executing an aggressive capital recycling program during the past few years that now totals well over $1 billion in transactions.
2014 will be a continuation of that strategic effort as we believe 2014 will be a good year to prudently both buy and sell hotels.
There are positive signs in the transaction market.
We are seeing owners who held on and rode out the downturn now selling.
This trend is evident in the data.
Last year transaction volume increased over 35% to $22 billion.
Going forward leading prognosticators are calling for transaction volume to climb another 10% in 2014 to over $25 billion.
With Troy a 25-year industry veteran leading DiamondRock's disposition and acquisition efforts we are well-positioned to execute deals that create shareholder value.
Let me touch on some of our most recent activity.
On the disposition front we improved our portfolio quality with the sale of the Oak Brook Hills Hotel located in suburban Chicago.
The Oak Brook Hills Hotel was sold last month for $30 million including $4 million of seller financing.
The hotel was our lowest-quality hotel and inconsistent with our current portfolio strategy.
On acquisitions the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central is nearing completion with construction proceeding on schedule.
We still expect to close on this hotel and welcome our first guests near the end of this summer.
It's worth noting that we put the hotel under contract at a fixed price over 3 years ago.
Hence we are paying 2011 prices for a 2014 hotel.
At $450 000 per key we believe this extraordinarily well-located hotel will immediately create real shareholder value.
On a point potentially related to acquisitions the company recently received an official notice from the owner of the Allerton Hotel that it intends to prepay our $58.5 million loan during the second quarter.
This event will bring a happy ending to our Allerton investment and bolster the company's dry powder for acquisitions.
So what's next for DiamondRock? Well we are selectively hunting for deals that fit our strategic and financial criteria.
Our focus is on urban hotels generally in top 15 markets as well as select resort locations.
We will continue to work hard to find good deals in this market and we will remain disciplined throughout the process.
We may also look to sell 1 or 2 noncore hotels over the next 24 months.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Sean Mahoney who'll provide details on our operating results asset management initiatives and balance sheet management.
Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our first quarter results please note that our reported pro forma RevPAR and margin data exclude the Oak Brook Hills Resort which was sold early in the second quarter.
As Mark highlighted our 2014 operating results are expected to benefit from several portfolio-specific catalysts including outsized growth from the $140 million capital renovation program; enhanced performance from the Lexington Hotel joining Marriott's Autograph Collection; strong group booking pace led by our hotels in Boston; and the opening of the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central.
Now let's turn to the first quarter numbers.
Overall it was another strong quarter and was consistent with our expectations.
The company reported adjusted EBITDA of $37.3 million and adjusted FFO of $0.15.
The first quarter reflected some exceptionally strong results at many of our hotels with 9 hotels reporting double-digit RevPAR growth.
The overall portfolio's 8.4% pro forma RevPAR growth was the result of a 4.5% increase in rate and a 2.6 percentage point increase in occupancy.
Despite the first quarter being a seasonally slow quarter we achieved pro forma hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 95 basis points.
We expect stronger hotel margin expansion during the remaining quarters of 2014.
Now let me spend a few minutes highlighting some individual hotel achievements.
As expected the Lexington Hotel's first quarter benefited from last year's renovation and the re-branding of Marriott's Autograph Collection.
The hotel achieved 57.5% RevPAR growth and approximately 1 900 basis points of margin expansion.
The LAX Marriott achieved impressive 24% RevPAR growth and 478 basis points of margin expansion.
The hotel benefited from taking advantage of a strong group base to drive revenues by restricting low-rated discount and international wholesale segments.
The Boston Hilton continued its multi-quarter run of double-digit RevPAR growth.
The hotel was able to drive over 20% RevPAR growth by taking advantage of both compression from city-wide activity and the recent renovation.
In addition the hotel outperformed the market gaining over 14 percentage points of market share during the quarter.
The Boston Westin also benefited from strong city-wide activity which contributed to a 16.6% increase in group room revenues and a 30% increase in F&amp;B revenues.
The hotel took advantage of strong corporate demand in Boston achieving over 30% growth in business transient rooms sold at an 8.5% higher rate.
Our 2 New York City Courtyards benefited from their 2013 renovations with a combined 18% RevPAR growth and over 700 basis points of margin expansion.
The Worthington Renaissance also had a strong quarter achieving RevPAR growth of 14.7% which contributed to a 680-basis points gain in market share.
The hotel's F&amp;B also outperformed achieving revenue growth of 19% which was led by banquets and catering.
Finally our Denver hotels also outperformed with the JW Marriott Cherry Creek and the Courtyard Denver achieving combined RevPAR growth of 11.7%.
The RevPAR growth led to strong margin expansion of 508 basis points at the Courtyard Denver and 385 basis points at the JW Marriott Cherry Creek.
Challenges in the New York City market partially offset these performances.
Upper-upscale market RevPAR was flat as the positive impact of the Super Bowl was more than offset by the impact of new supply and difficult Hurricane Sandy comparisons.
Additionally New York City was impacted by several severe winter storms and freezing cold spells during the quarter.
In addition our Chicago hotels finished modestly behind expectations due primarily to close to a 30% decline in city-wide activity and severe weather during the quarter.
Shifting back to positive trends our group business outperformed during the first quarter achieving over 13% revenue growth.
The group segment was led by Frenchman's Reef the Worthington Renaissance the LAX Marriott and the Boston Westin with group revenue growth of 65% 49% 28% and 17% respectively.
Another encouraging trend was the 8.3% increase in group contribution during the quarter which provides evidence of a healthy group recovery.
Our group business is well positioned to outperform over the remainder of 2014 with group revenue pace up 8.2%.
Our 2014 group pace is being driven by a 5% increase in rooms and an approximately 3% increase in average rate.
We currently have over 83% of the forecasted 2014 group business on the books.
Before discussing the balance sheet let me provide an update on recent asset management initiatives.
Our team has spent significant time identifying opportunities through enhancing sales and marketing strategies implementing new cost containment initiatives and maximizing opportunities within our existing portfolio.
We are pleased with the progress the portfolio has achieved to date and we see a number of additional significant opportunities.
Let's start with a summary of recent revenue management achievements.
We successfully increased average rates by shifting into premium retail segments while yielding out lower-rated leisure business.
Specific strategies included taking advantage of compression opportunities replacing lower-rated wholesale and contract business implementing view category rooms and replacing non-repeat group demand with higher-rated business transient.
Our recent implementation of resort fees at The Lodge at Sonoma and the Vail Marriott resulted in $0.6 million of incremental revenues during the quarter.
We also took advantage of group strength to increase group room nights and aggressively price during compression periods which resulted in an impressive 8.3% growth in group spend.
We are also working to identify cost containment opportunities across the portfolio.
Recent successes include a 1.3% increase in labor management productivity through improved scheduling and reduced overtime; a 1.3% reduction in food costs and the elimination of dinner service at one of our urban select service hotels helped to increase food and beverage margins by 300 basis points; our recent restructuring of parking contracts and parking rate increases contributed to a 17% increase in first quarter parking profit; and lastly we implemented several energy initiatives including installation of low-flow toilets at both the Boston Westin and Boston Hilton that are expected to have 2- to 3-year payback periods; and installation of LED lighting in all guestrooms at the Minneapolis Hilton and Boston Westin that are expected to reduce annual operating expenses at each hotel by approximately $50 000.
We are currently focused on continuing our cost containment efforts through the following new initiatives: consolidating management positions in 2 hotels which is expected to reduce annual operating expenses by approximately $200 000; further restructuring telephone maintenance contracts with expected annual savings of $800 000; and analyzing portfolio laundry operations for cost saving opportunities including outsourcing and contract restructuring.
Another asset management focus has been the implementation of value-creating ROI opportunities within our existing real estate.
The most significant projects include: converting unfinished space at the Boston Westin into 12 500 square feet of valuable meeting space with an underwritten IRR close to 30%; adding over 40 new rooms to the Boston Hilton; and evaluating the opportunity to create new rooms at the Vail Marriott JW Marriott Cherry Creek Westin Washington D.C.
our 2 New York City Courtyards and the Sonoma Renaissance.
We are also in the earlier stages of evaluating other opportunities such as converting over 10 000 square feet of vacant office space at the Minneapolis Hilton into valuable new meeting space; leasing restaurants at several hotels to third-party operators; creating incremental meeting space out of existing admin offices at the Operetta Marriott and the Salt Lake City Marriott; and analyzing options from the maturity of a significant space lease at one of our resort hotels to either increase rent or add approximately 20 new keys to the hotel.
Finally we are focused on creating value from our existing contracts.
We recently amended one of our management agreements to reduce space fees by over $500 000 over the next 3 years and we also negotiated a multi-year base fee reduction at 2 brand managed hotels due to our objection to new competitive hotels within these markets with an expected fee reduction of approximately $400 000.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet and capital allocation.
We continue to believe that DiamondRock's balance sheet is among the best of any lodging REIT and we are committed to being prudent stewards of our investors' capital.
We have a nearly decade-long track record of consistently maintaining a straightforward and low-risk balance sheet that has essentially no corporate debt.
We adhere to a disciplined capital structure philosophy that rests on 5 principles: first we maintain -- we believe that maintaining low leverage is the most prudent strategy for a public lodging REIT.
Based on our base case long-range projections which assume no new equity assurance we expect net-debt-to-EBITDA of less than 3x by 2016; second we believe that our capital structure acts as a defensive tool to mitigate the risk of lodging cycle volatility; third we continue to believe in the value of a simple capital structure and have a bias against preferreds and converts; fourth we preserve significant borrowing capacity by maintaining approximately 1/2 of our portfolio unencumbered by mortgage debt; and fifth we have a bias against corporate debt and currently have nothing drawn on our line of credit.
Our conservative balance sheet is a key element of our strategy that positions DiamondRock to deliver superior shareholder returns across all phases of the lodging cycle and also provides the ability to pay a meaningful and sustainable dividend.
Since our IPO we have paid dividends of approximately $475 million to our shareholders.
Our liquidity position has improved as a result of the proceeds from the Oak Brook Hills disposition and the upcoming repayment of the Allerton Loan.
After funding the Times Square acquisition we expect to end 2014 with over $180 million of unrestricted cash which will allow us to remain opportunistic if we identify attractive acquisition targets.
We will continue to focus on prudent capital allocation and be thoughtful in positioning the balance sheet for upcoming capital needs.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
Let me turn to our outlook.
Our outlook continues to reflect both positive industry dynamics as well as DiamondRock's unique growth catalyst.
We are essentially reaffirming prior guidance after adjusting for 2 important transactions.
First our guidance is updated for the sale of the Oak Brook Hills Hotel.
Our prior guidance included $3.5 million of adjusted EBITDA and $2.5 million of adjusted FFO for the period after our sale date.
Those amounts have been removed from the updated guidance range.
Second our guidance is updated for the pending prepayment of the Allerton Loan by the new hotel owner.
While we may have a one-time book gain with this transaction we plan to adjust out that benefit from our reported earnings to provide investors with the most comparable results.
Additionally our prior guidance included $3.5 million of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO for interest income that would have been earned during the period after the prepayment date.
That amount has been removed from the updated guidance range as well.
Please note that while we believe the prepayment will likely happen and it is our best guidance at this point in time we would strongly caution you that it is not guaranteed.
So for 2014 DiamondRock is providing the following updated guidance: RevPAR growth of 9% to 11%; adjusted EBITDA of $223 million to $233 million; and adjusted FFO per share of $0.83 to $0.87.
I do want to emphasize that no new acquisitions or dispositions have been incorporated into our updated guidance.
In addition please note that for the second quarter we expect to earn roughly 29% of full year adjusted EBITDA.
To sum things up we had a strong first quarter and are well-positioned to deliver solid full year results.
Moreover we firmly believe that DiamondRock's strategic focus attractive portfolio and strong balance sheet form a platform for multiple years of growth ahead.
We are very excited about our prospects as well as upcoming catalysts such as the second buff from our renovation program in 2015 and the potential upside from deploying our sizable war chest.
On that note we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Loeb from Baird.
Research Division</strong> Mark you hired Troy and you said a bunch of different ways in your prepared remarks that you're looking at acquisitions.
Can you talk a little bit about what the look and feel of those might be what you think the returns could be what impact that might have on shareholder value or NAV and how you look at that? Sure David.
I'll start and actually I'll turn it over to Troy as well.
As Sean mentioned assuming the Allerton Loan gets prepaid we'll be sitting on about $180 million of cash year end.
The goal is to actively pursue deals in the marketplace that we think will further diversify the portfolio and increase our growth prospects.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks we're seeing more transactions we're seeing more volume in the marketplace and we think that there might be some exciting opportunities.
But I'll let Troy jump in and tell you what his perspective is.
As you know we use a very meticulous and proven process.
I personally have about a 20-year career buying hotels and while I haven't always had the lowest cost of capital that's never precluded me from being able to find good transactions to invest in.
As I said we're very meticulous in our study.
We look at about 30 different markets around the country at any given time study a lot of data and are constantly updating that data.
We look at asset types mostly in the full-service space.
We look very closely at the cost of replacing those assets and look at that data on a market-by-market basis.
We're also very closely looking at the management opportunities where we can make changes to management make changes to brands.
As you know in my career most recently I've spent a considerable amount time in the lifestyle space so we are -- while we have a lot of the big brands in our portfolio today we're increasingly looking into the lifestyle space in some of the brands there where customers are gravitating towards.
So we're looking at those types of assets those types of brands.
We're looking at where we can apply capital to upgrade the properties and we're looking at frankly probably focus on top 15 to 20 markets around the country with a particular focus towards the West Coast.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful Troy.
Can you just talk a little bit more about for example whether you would look at doing deep turn renovations or rebranding as that might be a little bit disruptive for a couple of quarters.
And then kind of back maybe to Sean about where you think the value proposition is today relative to your stock price and relative to multiple things like that.
This is Mark I'll jump in here.
So as we said on prior calls we think it's mid-cycle right now so maybe a little before somewhere around the mid-cycle.
So we think that now isn't the time to do a multiple year turnaround type project so at Lexington where you buy it you figure out it takes a year to plan and get the new brand a year to execute and then 2 years to ramp up.
You shouldn't expect DiamondRock to do a deal like that unless there's something -- a really extraordinary opportunity.
The deals that we're looking for are high growth -- in high-growth markets a Miami; West Coast like West L.A; San Francisco if the cap rate's not insane.
We expect to be in those high-growth markets.
We look for value-add opportunities where there might be something where we could up-brand it without a lot of disruption.
But it's probably too late to do -- unless it is a small property to do really a kind of shutdown reposition renovation that takes a long time to get there given where we are in the lodging cycle.
And David to answer your question on sort of cost of capital and our capital allocation acquisitions are clearly only one of the options we have with the dry powder that we're going to have.
Other options include deleveraging.
We have the ability -- we've got debt maturity in 2015.
We do have a share repurchase program in place that's an option as well.
So if you look at the -- if you think of the deals that we're looking at clearly being accretive is very high on our requirements.
Just because we have the capital we're going to continue to be disciplined in how we allocate that capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last follow-up Sean for you.
It's really easy when you have cash on your balance sheet and a low cost of debt to buy subs that's accretive to FFO.
It's harder to make it accretive to NAV so is that what you mean when you say accretive? We mean accretive to NAV for sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just following up on the acquisition theme or switching dispositions rather sticking with the investment theme.
You had talked previously about selling 3 hotels for about $150 million.
And since you guys have closed on 2 for $105 million Mark you mentioned the additional sales potentially 2 hotels so does $50 million kind of fit within that framework of 2 additional hotels or do you think you could exceed that amount? That's a good question.
We really like -- generally really like our portfolio today.
There are 1 or 2 assets that I think if we could get the right price for we would consider recycling.
So I think we're going to be very careful about bringing those assets to market at the right point in time.
I think $50 million give or take is probably still a good marker might be a little less might be a little more depending on which assets are selected.
But there's -- and we sold Oak Brook Hills which was our #1 asset we wanted to sell probably the least core asset we had in our portfolio.
With the year-end balance of about $180 million in cash we're more likely to see how the pace of acquisitions proceeds before bringing more things to market.
But we'll continue to monitor the market again I think it is a good time to buy and sell right now in 2014.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the value creation opportunities that Sean went through you talked about not doing any big renovations at this point.
Could you just give some additional detail on how you would prioritize those opportunities? And would you consider undertaking any of these initiatives in 2014 2015? So you're -- so I understand your question the question is will we consider entering into any big renovations in 2014 on our existing hotels? Research Division</strong> Yes related to the addition of the meeting space and additional room additions that Sean sort of walked us through.
Yes I think what we said just to be clear is that we've completed our $140 million renovation program some of which had a lot of disruption associated with it which you saw in our 2013 numbers.
In 2014 we're going to continue to pursue all these smart value creation opportunities many of which we've talked about in prior calls which may be adding 3 keys here 11 keys at another hotel splitting some seasonally lower winter seasons in Boston.
Those should not be very disruptive.
There's always a little bit of noise in your numbers but those kind of -- what we consider smart value add opportunities we're going to continue to pursue.
What we're trying to say is we're not planning to undertake in 2014 any big renovations that are going to have the kind of material disruption that we had last year.
Research Division</strong> And then any sense on the timing on any of those? On the room additions? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Austin it's Rob Tanenbaum.
The room addition in Boston Hilton would be in the end of the fourth quarter and in the Boston Westin meeting room opportunity is going to occur in the second quarter and finish up at the end of the third quarter.
This is Sean.
I just want to emphasize on the 2 meeting space projects that we have both of those projects are in space that is currently unused at the hotel and will be very undisruptive.
The Boston Westin is part of unfinished retail space that's the building next to our hotel.
And the Minneapolis Hilton that we're evaluating is outside of reach of what Really guests spend a lot of time so we anticipate both those projects to be completed with no -- or virtually no profit disruption.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one.
Following the completion of the renovation at the Westin Washington D.C.
you'd previously talked about 2015 being a big year for that hotel.
And just curious sort of the -- some of the success that you've had there thus far.
Sure.
Austin it's been an incredible opportunity having guests and meeting planners come through and say "Wow I would never have imagined this hotel looked this great." In fact Starwood awarded us the Presence Award given our renovations at both the D.C.
Westin and the San Diego Westin given the impact.
It was really amazing to walk through both properties with senior management from Starwood.
And one individual who had actually worked at one of the hotels previously and said "I would never think of this the same hotel that I worked in a few years ago." So from that viewpoint it's been fantastic.
We've had companies like the World Bank now very interested in our D.C.
Westin.
We're finding meeting planners coming back for walk-throughs and going "This is fantastic it fits their needs being strategically located in the marketplace.
So it's been -- what we're doing right now is relaunching the product out to the marketplace and our initial results have been very favorable.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Allen from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I believe Chicago and New York is still your biggest markets.
Can you -- I'm guessing what you expect your exposure to each market will be in 2015 once your new Times Square property opens up? And then what's your outlook for kind of market growth for those 2 markets at 2014? Sure this is Mark.
I'll take that one So for New York as you know New York I'll tell you about the market.
It underperformed in the first quarter we expect it to be a little bit better for the balance of the year and full year outlook would be kind of low single digit RevPAR growth for the full year.
Our pro forma for -- including Hilton Garden Inn Times Square would make the New York market [indiscernible] about up 22% 23% of our overall portfolio by EBITDA.
Boston and Chicago would be our next largest markets at about 15% or so of our pro forma EBITDA for the company.
Chicago had a tough first quarter.
City-wide that city is very sensitive to the city-wide calendar.
It was down significantly in Q1 we see it getting better for the balance of the year especially in the back half of the year.
So we feel decent about Chicago but it was a rough start.
Research Division</strong> And then just your garden in Chelsea RevPAR I think it was down slightly more than I thought it would be down.
Anything specific driving that supply or anything like that? It's a good great question Thomas.
We had a some revenue management opportunities there since moving out particularly individual we've seen an increase in that so just some pricing challenges that came about from -- through and that's been addressed.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker from MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here.
First of all with regards to the RevPAR forecast obviously 1Q came in below your full year guidance range.
You indicated that 2Q is going to have a lighter group revenue dynamic than you saw in 1Q.
Are you expecting 2Q to also come in below that 9% to 11% or do we expect RevPAR really to be back half weighted? Or is it just seasonality kind of a little choppy? Hey Ryan no we expect the RevPAR to accelerate in the second quarter and then further accelerate in the third quarter within the portfolio.
Our implied guidance for the back half or -- for the last 3 quarters of the year is from anywhere to a little over 9% to about 11.5% RevPAR for the portfolio.
So we expect it to accelerate.
On a related point we expect the same trend for our margin expansion as well.
We expect that to accelerate as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then another question I had was David talked a little bit about the acquisition strategy and how things were unfolding.
I noticed in your EBITDA guidance that you now include $200 000 of acquisition-related costs that weren't there a quarter ago.
Are you any closer to an acquisition today than you were last quarter when we last spoke? Ryan I wouldn't read really anything into that -- into that $200 000.
And we -- as a general don't comment about where we are relative to our acquisitions but there's nothing to be read into that $200 000.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly $110 million of cash on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter you've got another $90 million are still coming through.
I know you've got the acquisition the remaining capital for the Hilton Garden Inn but you certainly have a lot of capital on the books.
At what point if you can't find an acquisition do you guys choose to I guess prepay some debt that you've got outstanding? Obviously you've got a couple of loans that have over 6% fixed interest rates.
I would imagine you could probably get materially below that level today.
Not sure what the prepayment penalties would be but are you guys looking at that at all? Sure Ryan we are.
As part of our capital allocation strategy prepaying debt and deficiencies is one of the things that's on the table.
I think our preference all things being equal we think we can probably deploy that capital more accretively through acquisitions than deficiencies because a the cost is pretty expensive and the fees as well.
If you look at the -- particularly our '15 debt maturities our average debt yield on that on our '14 numbers is high teens so that actually would make the problem -- we'd have more capital because there's significant unused -- wouldn't there be incremental proceeds from those maturities? That's certainly something that we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> How about with regards to the Courtyard Midtown East that's coming due in October is there an opportunity to prepay that maybe a few months beforehand? Yes we're looking at that as we speak.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In Chicago how's the citywide counter look for 2015? It's looking -- if you're looking for '15 [indiscernible] it's looking a little up about 3.5% compared to the '14.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And on the acquisitions I think before you've mentioned the desire to simply acquire more resort hotels.
How are cap rates trending for resort hotels compared to some of the urban full service hotels? Sure this is Mark.
I'll lead off on that.
So what we said on the prior call is one of the opportunities that we see in the market place we're obviously looking in the urban core centers in the top growth markets but we're also focused on trying to find resort opportunities where this -- where the real economic growth is in this recovery where that transient guest is doing well.
We're trying to capitalize on that because there's less competition for those deals.
I think you saw Hershed [ph] recently did that deal in The Keys at the 7 cap or so which compares much more favorably than obviously  what we're seeing in markets like San Francisco.
But we're going to continue to cast a relatively wide net within the marketplaces that we're seeing.
I think the cap rates are a little -- it depends.
So if it's more stabilized obviously and less growth we're going to get better capital -- cap rate but we're trying to find higher growth opportunities and so that's always the balance in the kind of cap rate discussion we'll pay a lower cap rate for higher growth obviously.
I'll just add to that Anthony.
The resort business is getting better particularly skewed by better performing group business so those resorts that have been slowest to recover are starting to look more attractive today as their cash flows start to build back to peak performance.
I think cap rates are probably still a little bit across the board depending on which region you're referring to but those are becoming a bit more stable asset these days.
Your next question comes from the line of Nikhil Bhalla from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Mark the first one is for you here.
In terms of the EBITDA from the Hilton Garden Inn that's going to open up -- open in August.
Are you still expecting $5 million of EBITDA accretion from that hotel for this year as you were when you had your Analyst Day last year? Yes.
So the hotel's on schedule to open late summer.
$5 million is our best guess at this point.
It may vary a little depending on the exact opening date but that's what's implied in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just going on to your booking pace I think you mentioned booking pace is right now talking about 8% as of your last call.
I think it was up 10%.
Could you just reconcile for us was there more outperformance in 1Q versus what you expect in the back half? Nikhil it's Rob Tanenbaum.
The booking pace was 9% at the end of -- or into Q4 and it's now 8.2%.
The real difference came from Frenchman's Reef in quarter 2 bookings for this upcoming quarter.
This is a large group that didn't repeat year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay so fairly consistent.
And one last question on the Allerton prepayment Mark what would be the reasons why this may not close? They've given us notice that they intend to refinance it with a major institution sometime in the second quarter.
They have the ability to withdraw their notice that if their financing doesn't come through.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Looking at the group spend the ADR it looks like it's going to be up 3% for the balance of the -- for the pace.
Is that being driven by mix shift or are you guys actually raising the rates there? It's a combination of both.
We're seeing opportunity to raise rates during compression and as well as just overall strong demand.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys appear much more confident now on the group and I guess increasingly confident each quarter.
Are you going to get more aggressive on the rate increase or is the idea just to get them in the door and then get them with the F &amp; spend? I will have to say combination of both.
There's time where we'll take a group like for example over Father's Day stay weekend we have a walking dead group and really doing that weekend it's fantastic rooms only business with very little F &amp; B spend so again all depends upon the time of the year that you want to drive the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the first quarter did you have any cancellations on the group set especially in cities like Chicago where the weather was pretty bad? No we actually had very little cancellation business year-over-year and that was part of the impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Kent from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> There is Anto Savarirajan on for Steve Kent.
My first question is on the Lexington.
At the Investor Day last September you mentioned that the hotel had a $90 ADR gap to comparable Marriott.
And 6 months in can you update where the differential stands plus where do you now stand on the retail repositioning at the property? Certainly.
Our retail repositioning continues to grow each day.
We have since -- from September through March we have seen a positive momentum both our bar preferred corporate rates.
Our bar rates are up over 400-plus percent in terms of revenue during that time period.
Our preferred corporate is up over 425% so we continue to see strengthening in that market segment for us.
In terms of the rate differential between us and the competitive set I think we're at $40 to $45 of our expected growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I have last one more acquisition-related question.
You mentioned some attributes like West Coast management opportunity full service lifestyle replacement value et cetera for acquisitions.
Can you elaborate a little more on the value creation? Are Troy and team seeing off-market transactions that you can create value out of? Or is it dependent on Bob and team mining cost opportunities without not really going down the path of extensive renovations? Or is it more a desire to diversify geographically? What's driving this thought process? This is Troy I'll field that first.
I think it's a little bit of all of that.
There's a lot of competition out there for all of these assets and at least I personally in my career had a pretty successful run at being able to find assets off-market working at pretty broad network of owners and operator relationships.
So not everything can you source off-market.
And I think probably the large majority of transactions you see are going to be done on-market.
But we will certainly try to get in and find those relationships where we can buy directly principal to principal.
I'll let Rob kind of comment on the value creation on the operating side and the brand side.
Yes.
As we continue to focus on the value creation side and Sean alluded to through the prepared remarks we continue to feel that there's additional upside for us as we -- as our teams further partner with our operating partners properties.
And we're seeing great collaboration.
I mean you see it in the fact that we're able to consolidate management among 2 hotels of the same operator.
Looking at our ways we can increase revenues we can improve our productivity.
So this is a continual process and we expect this to have a nice run for us as we go forward.
The next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on why you think group business has ticked up? Sure this is Mark.
I'll take that one which is what we're seeing at our hotels particularly in markets like Boston you're seeing more bookings on city-wides you're seeing a number of the groups have more attendees.
On an ancillary note we're seeing groups exceed their minimum spend.
I think that the groups generally corporate America as well as a number of the associations are feeling better.
They're getting their people back out into meetings.
They're focused on growing revenue.
We're seeing increases -- and I don't want to overstate the dramatic -- in a dramatic way but we're seeing increases in things like incentive travel where the sales group's being rewarded and getting sent to a Frenchman's Reef or Sonoma.
So we're seeing more and more of that business come back which is what you would have anticipated in any normal recovery it just seems to be a delayed given the more in need [ph] nature of this economic recovery.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then assuming the Allerton Loan gets repaid do you guys have an estimate of the IRR on that investment? Sure.
It's probably mid high single-digits 7 I guess right around there.
We made about $16 million -- a little over $16 million on that investment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys invested in that in 2012 or was it '11? Lukas this is Sean.
2010.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 2010 okay.
And then my last question is given the strong top line growth I was kind of surprised that EBITDA margins didn't grow much more than I think it was 95 basis points.
And you guys obviously have kept your full year guidance.
I'm just curious what was the interesting to note in the first quarter? Sure Lukas.
It's Rob.
We still -- we have ramped-up costs associated with the Lexington especially with franchise fees now being part of Marriot's Autograph Collection.
We did see a very large increase in energy costs throughout their Northeast properties during Q1.
We also had sales and marketing costs associated with the relaunching of both San Diego and DC Westins which are onetime effects.
And we did have the renovation at 5 hotels.
Though we do expect that Sean has spoken to us and then Mark we do expect our margins to accelerate over the remainder of the year now that all that work is completed.
Yes.
And Lukas this is Sean.
Just to add our margin performance for the first quarter was right in line with what we expected when we gave original guidance.
So there is no surprises to us.
Clearly Chicago being a tough market New York slows and slowness in New York City as well as hotels being under the knife during the first quarter hurt our ability to push margins.
That was all factored in to what we provided to the street at the beginning of the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the opportunity in the resort -- on the resort side.
I think historically you guys have referenced maybe having a 10% to 15% of your assets on the resort side.
Is that changing a little bit or given the opportunity set here or how should we be thinking about it? Jordan there's not a change.
Somewhere between 10% to 20% would be our comfort level with resorts.
We've had great success with Vail Sonoma Charleston Historic District St.
Thomas those have performed very well.
What we're looking -- when we track very closely the type of customers that are really the most robust right now that upper-end traveler leisure traveler is doing very well.
And there's a number of resorts that are benefiting.
So if we could find an attractive one for $50 million $100 million that would fit in our sweet spot.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would you say this is more cyclical in terms of the opportunity set being a little bit better on the resort side today? Or do you think it's secular in that there's more competition now for the key or gateway markets? Well I think it's both.
So when you're doing acquisitions you're always trying to find the trend line right? You're trying to find something that gives you greater confidence and may differentiate your strategy a little bit from your peers.
And so this is one area we can see it in our again our Vail and Sonoma-type resorts.
We see that customer doing very well so that's a place that makes sense to allocate capital.
Conversely your second theme there in markets like San Francisco there's so much demand for those assets that they often get priced out of the kind of good real estate deal to the too expensive type deal.
And so we're not likely to win a lot of those marketed deals in a market like that.
So we're trying to find places that -- where there's a good trend line and where we can find value.
We're also just not seeing resort development practically.
It's a very stagnant pipeline for resorts.
So that cost of replacement far exceeds where you can buy.
So we're looking at that very closely.
Research Division</strong> No that makes sense and I appreciate you guys being tactical.
I guess along the same lines on the disposition front.
I mean obviously you've got some non-core stuff that aren't your favorite children so to speak.
Is there anything in the portfolio in the hotter markets that could be called incrementally to the extent that there is additional opportunity on the resort side so would you sell anything in New York or Chicago or Boston opportunistically to the extent that there are more opportunities? Yes that's a great question.
I think you've seen our last couple of years where we are very active capital recyclers we do think that is kind of a core tenet to our strategy and to being a proactive lodging REIT.
Right now we're sitting on a fairly large cash balance year-end cash balance so we're likely to deploy that before we would sell our best growing assets.
We also would look even in markets like New York or Boston for assets where we think selling today might be willing to pay us for all the future value creation we can generate at that hotel.
Some of those opportunities may arise.
The focus has generally been on selling slower non-core lower-quality assets.
And I think you'll see more of that that's more likely than selling in these core markets.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now turn the call back to Mr.
Mark Brugger.
Thank you operator.
To everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Brett Stewart Director of Finance.
Please proceed.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call and Webcast.
Before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law and may not be historical fact.
They also may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
As management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mark Brugger our President and Chief Executive Officer.
He is joined by DiamondRock's senior leadership team of: Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Chief Investment Officer.
Mark? Thanks Brett.
Let me begin the call by stating the obvious.
This is a great time to be in the travel business especially lodging.
We continue to benefit from the favorable combination of low supply and increasing demand.
Overall U.S.
supply growth was 0.8% in the second quarter which is less than half the historical average.
Against this attractive macro background our core customers are doing well and pushed industry hotel occupancy up 3.6% and rate up 4.4%.
Moreover the economic data looks very encouraging.
There are several key economic metrics that we closely monitor because they correlate to lodging demand.
These corollaries show strength and momentum on the demand side.
First the overall economy grew at a robust 4% annual rate in the quarter.
Second employment trends are positive with monthly job growth exceeding 200 000 for 6 straight months the longest stretch since 1997.
Third consumer confidence recently hit a 7-year high.
And lastly employments were up a healthy 3.4% and are even higher at key airports like LAX up almost 7%.
These are all encouraging signs for the industry.
And DiamondRock is well positioned to benefit.
Our strong quarterly performance and our increased guidance are a testament to our confidence in our business.
Trends in international travel also support the positive outlook for the lodging industry.
In 2013 69.8 million international visitors traveled to the U.S.
The Commerce Department projects that figure to grow 3.5% again this year and by more than 20% by 2018.
Additionally the JOLT Act which is the travel act pending in Congress would add 9 additional countries to the Visa Waiver Program.
Brazil would be the most impactful.
These changes could bring another 1 million visitors to the U.S.
annually.
However while we have a bullish outlook on lodging fundamentals and growth we recognize that this is 5 years into the recovery and firmly believe that we at DiamondRock need to remain committed to a strategy that is aligned with the middle innings of the cycle.
Earlier on in the cycle we transformed our portfolio through strategic acquisitions and dispositions as well as significant repositionings and renovations at hotels across our portfolio.
To enhance our results we also embarked on a much more intense asset management program.
And our second quarter results which I will discuss later provide evidence that we are well positioned to reap the benefits of our enhanced portfolio and asset management initiatives in what should be some of the best years of the lodging cycle.
The company's future results are also likely to be bolstered by our fortress balance sheet and financial flexibility.
We are projecting to end 2014 even after funding the Times Square deal with more than $185 million of corporate cash.
That said DiamondRock will remain disciplined in our capital allocation and will carefully evaluate the most attractive areas to deploy capital which may include funding hotel acquisitions returning capital to shareholders through dividends repaying current debt at maturity or maintaining dry powder for opportunistic share repurchases in the future.
In evaluating the best use of our capital it is worth noting that we have tightened our acquisition strategy and have strict investment criteria that I would like to highlight here.
We continue to target opportunities in urban and resort locations with an emphasis on markets where we are currently underexposed.
We are targeting several prime markets on the West Coast and South Florida as well as select destination resort areas.
Further despite our conviction that there are several more years of industry growth ahead we believe that it is prudent to avoid opportunities that require significant capital investment or deep and lengthy turnarounds.
Moreover in any opportunities we choose to pursue we are primarily targeting smaller deals in the $50 million to $150 million range.
Finally we are very sensitive to our cost of capital and will only pursue acquisitions that create near-term value.
Now I would like to briefly touch on our strong second quarter results which exceeded our internal expectations outperformed the industry and showed increased traction from our recent execution.
Our portfolio delivered 11.9% RevPAR growth.
Profits were up with hotel adjusted EBITDA margins expanding 243 basis points.
Impressively the portfolio gained over 5 points of market share during the quarter.
This strong and accelerating performance year-to-date provides positive momentum for the remainder of 2014.
As a matter of fact our portfolio RevPAR growth was up over 15% in July.
Our West Coast New York City and Boston hotels led the way for our portfolio in the quarter.
The Lodge at Sonoma was the strongest performer of our West Coast hotels with 12.7% RevPAR growth.
Both of our hotels in Boston benefited from compression in that market and they averaged 16.3% RevPAR growth.
Our 3 renovated hotels in New York City experienced substantial growth in the quarter.
And our investment in the Lexington to convert it to Marriott's Autograph Collection is playing out as we had hoped.
The customer feedback on the Lexington renovation continues to be extremely positive.
While we are on New York I would like to provide you with an update on the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central.
As many of you know DiamondRock placed this new-build hotel under contract over 3 years ago at only $450 000 per key for a total purchase price of $127 million.
The hotel is finishing construction as we speak.
And based on hitting the current construction schedule the hotel will open in about a month.
The hotel is still expected to generate nearly $5 million of hotel adjusted EBITDA during 2014.
Advance bookings on the hotel have been amazing.
We remain confident that this will be a great financial deal for our shareholders and generate a stabilized EBITDA yield on our investment in excess of 9%.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Sean Mahoney who will provide details on our operating results asset management initiatives and balance sheet management.
Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our second quarter results please note that our reported pro forma RevPAR and margin data excludes the Oak Brook Hills Resort which was sold early in the second quarter.
We expect our 2014 operating results to continue to benefit from several portfolio-specific catalysts including outsized growth from our $140 million capital renovation program; enhanced performance from the Lexington Hotel driven by the rebranding to Marriott's Autograph Collection; strong group booking pace led by our hotels in Boston; and the opening of the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central.
Now let's turn to the second quarter numbers.
Overall it was another strong quarter with results slightly above our expectations.
The company reported adjusted EBITDA of $70.9 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.26.
The strength of our second quarter results gives us confidence to increase our 2014 guidance as well as validate last year's $140 million capital program and our asset management initiatives.
We expect our momentum to continue through the balance of 2014 and into 2015.
Our pro forma RevPAR growth of 11.9% was a result of a 6.3% increase in the average rate and a 4.2 percentage point increase in occupancy.
The RevPAR growth was led by a 25% increase in business transient revenues.
This contributed to pro forma hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 243 basis points.
For the year-to-date period ended June 30 the company reported pro forma RevPAR growth of 10.3% which was the result of a 5.5% increase in the average rate and a 3.4 percentage point increase in occupancy.
Our year-to-date portfolio hotel adjusted EBITDA margins have expanded 175 basis points which is in line with our expectations.
Our margin growth is expected to accelerate during the last 2 quarters of 2014 with the strongest margin expansion achieved during the third quarter.
The midpoint of updated guidance results in over 265 basis points of hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion which is slightly higher than prior guidance.
This past quarter's results were impacted by anticipated group softness as a result of the Easter shift which was accounted for in our prior guidance.
The soft group quarter resulted in a 2.3% decline in group room revenues and a 1.3% decrease in food and beverage revenues primarily in banquet and catering.
However despite the decline in F&amp;B revenues our asset management initiatives enabled us to maintain flat F&amp;B margins during the quarter.
Looking ahead our group segment remains well positioned to outperform with our group booking pace for the balance of the year up 13.4%.
We currently have over 92% of the forecasted 2014 group business on the books and we expect group to be particularly strong in the third quarter as pace is up almost 25%.
Our pace will moderate in the fourth quarter with group revenues expected to be flat versus the prior year.
Overall our 2014 group pace is up 8% driven by a 5% increase in rooms and an approximately 3% increase in average rates.
The second quarter reflected some exceptionally strong results at many of our hotels with 9 hotels reporting double-digit RevPAR growth.
Now let me spend a few minutes highlighting some individual hotel achievements.
As expected the Lexington Hotel's second quarter continued to ramp up from last year's renovation and rebranding to Marriott's Autograph Collection.
The hotel achieved 123.5% RevPAR growth and over 4 000 basis points of margin expansion.
In the quarter Marriott channels delivered over 60% of the room revenue for the hotel.
We have high expectations as the hotel further gains awareness with both transient and special corporate customers.
We are pleased with the direction the hotel is going and expect to hit our underwriting for 2014.
Our 2 New York City Courtyards continued to benefit from our capital investments with a combined 28% RevPAR growth and close to 1 000 basis points of margin expansion.
The Boston Hilton extended its multiquarter run of double-digit RevPAR growth delivering over 28% growth by taking advantage of both citywide compression and strong special corporate demand.
This allowed us to focus on minimizing lower-rated segments such as government in favor of the higher-rated bar and rack segments.
The hotel continues to outperform the market gaining 15 percentage points of market share so far in 2014.
The Boston Westin also took advantage of citywide compression with a 10.5% RevPAR growth.
The hotel had great wins in the business transient segment with close to 50% growth in rooms sold at an 11% higher average rate.
Impressively these results were achieved during a slow group quarter.
Despite a close to 5% decline in banquet and catering revenues our asset management initiatives contributed 239 basis points of banquet and catering margin expansion.
Group is expected to improve during the third quarter where the hotel booking pace is up over 40%.
The Charleston Renaissance's second quarter was the best in the hotel's history.
The hotel achieved an impressive 14.6% RevPAR growth with over 70% flow-through.
Finally the Sonoma Renaissance also outperformed with RevPAR growth of 12.7% and margin expansion of 439 basis points.
Challenges in the Chicago and Washington D.C.
markets partially offset these performances.
The Chicago market experienced an 8% decline in citywide room nights during the second quarter which contributed to a 4% decline in group room revenues at the Chicago Marriott impacting our robust second quarter portfolio RevPAR growth by 3.4 percentage points.
We expect group revenues to increase approximately 3% during the back half of the year in Chicago.
Washington D.C.
finished modestly below expectations due primarily to a 70% decline in citywide activity during the quarter.
However group business in Washington is expected to be strong during the third quarter where our pace is up over 100%.
I'm also happy to report that we are gaining momentum at our D.C.
Westin.
The hotel gained double-digit market share in July and is expected to grow RevPAR by over 20% during the remainder of 2014.
Next I would like to provide a brief update on recent asset management initiatives.
We are pleased with the progress we have made with the portfolio to date.
In particular our asset management initiatives are beginning to show up in the numbers with portfolio hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 243 basis points.
The margin expansion was even more remarkable during a slow group quarter.
We expect our margin expansion to accelerate during the third quarter as we expect to benefit from robust group contribution.
Our fourth quarter margin expansion is expected to be slightly behind the third quarter due to the lapping of our 2013 renovation disruption but still exceed the 175 basis point year-to-date margin expansion.
Touching on a few of our initiatives this quarter.
We are finalizing our plans to add 41 rooms at the Boston Hilton.
The total project is expected to cost approximately $9.5 million and take place during the seasonally slow period this winter.
This project is expected to generate an IRR of approximately 20% and add over $15 million to the hotel's net asset value.
We don't expect any disruption from this project.
We are making great progress on our plans to convert unfinished space at the Boston Westin into 12 500 square feet of valuable meeting space.
This project is expected to be completed later in the fall achieving IRR close to 30% and not cause any disruption.
We are also reconcepting vacant restaurant space at the Lexington Hotel.
This flexible space will be in an elite lounge serving breakfast in the morning be sold for group meetings during the day and provide additional capacity for the high demand lobby bar in the evening.
This project which will be completed by the end of the year is expected to cost approximately $1 million and achieve an IRR of over 30%.
Finally we are continuing with our plans to add new rooms at the Vail Marriott JW Marriott Cherry Creek Westin Washington D.C.
our 2 New York City Courtyards and the Sonoma Renaissance.
We will provide updates as the scope and cost of these projects are finalized.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet and capital allocation.
We continue to believe that DiamondRock's balance sheet is among the best of any lodging REIT and are committed to being prudent stewards of our investors' capital.
We have a nearly decade-long track record of consistently maintaining a straightforward and low-risk balance sheet that has essentially no corporate debt.
Our conservative balance sheet is a key element of our strategy that positions DiamondRock to deliver superior shareholder returns across all phases of the lodging cycle while also preserving our ability to pay a meaningful and sustainable dividend.
Since our IPO we have paid dividends of approximately $500 million to our shareholders.
We continue to maintain ample liquidity which was improved as a result of the excess proceeds from the Courtyard Midtown East refinancing and the settlement of the Boston litigation.
After funding the Times Square acquisition we expect to end 2014 with approximately $185 million of unrestricted cash.
We will continue to focus on prudent capital allocation and be thoughtful in positioning the balance sheet for upcoming capital needs.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
Let me turn to our outlook.
We raised our full year guidance this morning which reflects our conviction in the strength of the lodging demand within our markets as well as our second quarter outperformance.
Our updated 2014 guidance is for RevPAR growth of 9.5% to 11.5% an increase of 50 basis points.
Based on that growth we projected adjusted EBITDA of $225.5 million to $235.5 million an increase of $2.5 million at both the bottom and top end of the range.
Consequently we expect adjusted FFO per share to be in the range of $0.84 to $0.88.
Importantly our strong guidance is supported by excellent group demand for the back half of 2014.
Our group pace for the second half of the year is up over 13% with the bulk of that strength in the third quarter.
To sum things up we had a strong second quarter and are well positioned to deliver solid full year results.
Moreover we firmly believe that DiamondRock's strategic focus attractive portfolio and strong balance sheet form a platform for multiple years of attractive growth and shareholder value creation.
On that note we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Kim? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Thanks for the additional detail you gave on the acquisition criteria.
I was just curious given sort of the favorable operating environment and the strong competition for deals today particularly on the West Coast have you found it difficult identifying potential opportunities on the acquisition side? Yes.
Austin this is Mark.
We'll let Troy handle that.
I know we've been very active in looking at deals and Troy can give the most color on that.
Yes.
Austin we're always looking at a broad variety of deals on the West Coast and on the East Coast.
So our pipeline is very active in terms of evaluating these deals.
We're both evaluating things that are on the market that are being brokered as well as quite a number of opportunities that are off-market that based on our relationships we're having direct conversations with owners.
Those marketed deals we may participate in but rarely will we win those.
A lot of times we look closely at those just to gauge pricing trends and give us better flavor on sort of where things are underwriting from other companies.
It's very competitive out there.
And a lot of folks are also looking on the West Coast.
But we're in those markets regularly.
We think that we don't miss any deal that's available out there.
And we're just actively engaged with all the constituents in these markets.
So I like our chances at least of seeing things.
But we'll be prudent with our investment decisions.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly on the Hilton Garden Inn.
It looked like you guys pushed that back on the timing of that from early August so about a month but kind of kept the contribution in the second half of the year unchanged.
I mean is that just a function of you guys had a little bit of wiggle room in there? Or are things trending better than you previously anticipated? Yes.
So this is Mark.
It's about a month later that we originally anticipated mostly due to last-minute permit delays and that we're actively trying to finish up that project as quickly as we can.
As you can imagine the final days are always the busiest there.
We're taking more comfort in the advance bookings that we're seeing through the Hilton booking channels.
What we're seeing on the books for late September October and November exceeded our original expectations.
So we still feel very good about the $5 million.
And Austin this is Sean.
Some other things positive for that.
Rob has had some great wins in combining some costs at the overhead level combining GMs Director of Engineering HR and some other things which has taken some cost out of the operating model that we would have thought needed to be in there.
So great wins by Rob and the asset management team.
Research Division</strong> And then just switching over to Chicago.
It sounds like you expect things to pick up sort of in the second half of the year.
But could you just give us some color on the outlook for -- on the group side particularly in Chicago in 2015? Absolutely.
Austin we think for Chicago for '15 we're balancing or flat right now in our promotions there.
And we think that the team -- we know where the team is headed.
We've allocated additional resources so we feel confident in what the Chicago management team is going to be able to produce for 2015.
Research Division</strong> It's Jordan.
I want to -- just a quick one on the Hilton Burlington.
Any thoughts on ownership there holding that longer term given sort of the potential change in the economic outlook or framework given sort of the potential sale of the IBM facility? Yes.
We just -- there's actually a number of good things happening in the Burlington market.
We just finished the renovation a few months ago which turned out really terrific.
We're trying to evaluate all our assets so we'll continue to monitor that one.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Clearly Lexington result is pretty strong.
How far along are you in closing that $90 $80 gap you've discussed in the past? Yes.
Anthony this is Rob.
We're about midway through closing that gap.
Where we're really encouraged is when you look at our special corporate demand we had over $2.2 million of special corporate business in Q2.
That compares to about $83 000 in the year -- same time last year.
So we feel we're progressing well in further moving that needle.
Yes.
Anthony this is Mark.
I would just add as we've said all along it takes about 3 years after a brand conversion to get -- to kind of wring all the juice out of that move.
So we are obviously less than a year into it right now.
And it's proceeding just kind of as we expected.
So we're gaining a lot of traction with special corporate.
We're obviously reintroducing it to a number of transient travelers that have been there before.
And we're getting a whole lot of new travelers coming through the Marriott channels now.
So as people try it the reaction from the guests has been extremely positive.
So it will continue to build momentum over the next 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one more follow-up.
Thanks for the updated investment criteria.
It seems like the deal environment is getting a bit more challenging.
Given that are you looking any more at accelerating for share repurchases prepaying debt? Or is it more likely that you'll be exploring those 2 other options versus doing more deals? Yes.
This is Mark.
Everything is on the table so we constantly evaluate those.
Obviously we have a good handle on what our cost of capital is.
We're obviously looking at the market understanding pricing and considering that versus alternative uses of capital.
Right now we're optimistic that we might find 1 or 2 deals that would create more value.
But we know the numbers so everything is on the table is what I'd say.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Didora from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to focus a little bit on cash as well.
And Mark certainly appreciate the commentary in your prepared remarks in terms of your priorities there.
But I wanted to maybe ask a little bit more about cash flow over the next few years combined with the cash balance that you have right now.
Obviously your heavy CapEx work is behind you.
Low leverage should be generating significant free cash flow.
I think your dividend payout ratio right now is a bit above 50% with this cash.
Do you think you can push that higher as you get later on in the cycle? Yes.
This is Mark.
Generally our dividends subtract our cash flow growth.
So I think that would be a fair baseline.
It's obviously a board decision how we increase our dividends.
But as our cash flow increase we've generally matched that with an increase in the dividends.
For the cash balance obviously as we've discussed in the prepared remarks we have a lot of options available to us.
So as the quarters progress and we kind of see what the acquisition market is see what price our stock is trading at and also we have some debt maturities which we could potentially lower our leverage and be poised to be opportunistic in the future all those alternatives are on the table.
So I think it will depend a little bit on what pricing is in the market and how our stock performs.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker from MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question.
I just wanted to really get some clarity from you.
So it looked like in the quarter you recognized a $1.8 million benefit associated with corporate expenses related to the litigation settlement.
The $1.8 million was obviously expenses you had in G&amp;A prior to 1Q and it was a benefit of $1.8 million in 2Q.
Is that correct? Ryan that's right.
Those expenses were recorded over the last couple of years.
As part of a settlement we got reimbursement of those expenses.
So they were not added back to our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted FFO in the prior years.
So we thought it was appropriate to not take them out this year.
Research Division</strong> So were you expecting that type of benefit this year? Was that embedded in your guidance prior? Yes it was.
Research Division</strong> It was embedded in the guidance.
Okay that was what I was trying to figure out because it was like RevPAR is going up margins are going up but EBITDA is only going up slightly more than that benefit.
But if it was built-in that makes sense.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Woronka from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I noticed a little bit of underperformance at a couple of what I think are noncore hotels.
And you obviously already sold Oak Brook.
But should we read into that that those hotels are being marketed? Or were those maybe just more market-specific issues? Chris I think it's a variety of stories.
Obviously we don't measure hotels -- 1 underperforming quarter doesn't mean we sell a hotel.
We manage our money for the long-term.
On the disposition front I'd say if you look at what we've done over the last several years we've generally monetized the lower RevPAR lower growth profile hotels.
So when you think about the hotels that we're likely to monetize this cycle it's going to continue to have those criteria generally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I was just wondering if there's a correlation between the underperformance and whether you're actively marketing them and that was why they may be underperformed.
And again it's just a couple of instances.
Yes I'd say it's 1 quarter.
So we look forward not necessarily at the 1 quarter but there's no direct correlation between a marketing effort and the quarterly results that we're looking at here.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then it sounds like you guys are very bullish on the international inbound story which I agree with.
Can you remind us what percentage of your business is international in New York and maybe for the portfolio as a whole? Well Chris it's hard to measure.
Obviously we're the beneficiary in New York of the compression for all of their international travel despite having more or less at our particular hotel.
New York and Miami and L.A.
are probably the top 3 markets that will benefit from the increased inbound international.
So we not only look at the impact on our current hotels.
But as we're allocating capital and looking at our acquisition efforts we're trying to get ahead of those trends to understand who's going to benefit the most.
So for instance with the JOLT Act if it does go through with the Visa Waiver Program Brazil would have we think a big influx.
And so where are they going how do we get ahead of that trend before others do? Those are the kinds of things that we're trying to monitor to be really smart about how we allocate our capital going forward.
And this is Sean.
This also the international visitation as we eclipse prior peak occupancy in the industry allows us -- it just gives us confidence in elongated cycle which is obviously our macro view that we believe this is a cycle that's going to last longer than the last 2.
So that increased international visitation coupled with we're already at saturation from an occupancy perspective on the industry gives us great confidence that we'll be able to have pricing power for the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
That's good color.
And then just going back to Chicago for a second.
Is it -- is the problem entirely group? Or is it something else? I mean I think one of your peers kind of recently might have been the first one to kind of said "Yes actually the whole picture just doesn't look quite as good for this year." Is that -- are you guys seeing any weakness on transient? Is it supply or something else? We're seeing still good short-term demand in Chicago which is encouraging.
We're also seeing our group spend going up there.
We had 5 groups in June and July that increased their spend about 166% from $81 per occupied room to $221.
We're really pleased with that.
It's a very short-term market it continues to be.
And it's a variety of factors.
The convention calendar has changed as there's also been new supply addition.
So it just makes for opportunities to creatively market your asset.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Hightower from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One to follow up on the acquisition question from before just curious to the extent that you're missing out on deals where exactly do you think you're missing? Is it just in terms of the going in cap rate? Is this the leverage you're willing to take down? Is it your view on the cycle whether you're willing to underwrite a recession several years out versus your competitors? Just where do you think you might be missing at this stage? This is Troy.
I'm not sure we're missing.
We have been competitive in a number of bids recently.
We price where we think they make sense.
And we're not always going to win those bids.
So there's a lot of capital out there admittedly.
And the availability of debt financing and I think some of these private equity groups take bigger risks than we do.
So we're in a lot of these and we make our marks where we're comfortable with them.
So I don't -- I'm not sure we're missing.
I think we're making -- when we do miss we miss and we're comfortable with our position.
Rich I think the key takeaway on the acquisitions is that we're going to continue to be disciplined.
And the fact that we haven't done any yet is a function of -- listen Troy is spending a lot of time looking at acquisitions and we're underwriting deals.
But the fact of the matter is that we're going to continue to be disciplined.
We don't feel compelled that we need to buy today.
We think that we'll likely to be able to achieve return strong returns if we do.
But we're not going to buy for buying's sake.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think the investment community would agree with that philosophy.
The second question is on New York.
Clearly your assets are very a different story than the market given the renovation tailwinds which have obviously been very successful to date.
But it seems like among the REITs that reported in the second quarter there was a bit of a dichotomy between maybe the transient smaller box-focused companies and the bigger box group-focused REITs in that I think that the smaller box guys did a little bit better and benefited from the fact that demand outpaced supply in the quarter.
And I'm wondering if you had any general thoughts on that topic.
Specifically are there different segments of the market that are benefiting from that demand growth right now and just any general ideas on your part? We're seeing demand is just very strong of late.
I'll give you an example.
About 2 nights ago at the Lexington we were selling suites for over $1 000 or 2 suites at $1 000 1 at $1 750.
Quite a bit of compression demand going on in the market.
And I think it's a combination.
There's quite a bit of both group and transient demand out there.
There's room-only group that's available for New York City.
So we're not seeing a whole slew of challenges on that side of it.
Yes.
Rich this is Mark.
I would just add obviously we don't have any group houses in New York.
I think there was some concern about the supply coming in obviously this year.
Some of the group houses may have grouped up as a defensive measure which is -- and I think New York actually in the quarter and we're seeing it this summer is a little stronger than people expected.
And obviously the smaller more transient-oriented boxes have the ability to capture more of that short-term value where some of the group had locked in a defensive position which probably make it harder to push it right now.
And transient demand is very strong across the industry.
I mean in our portfolio Rich I mean our revenue for transient was up 25% which was primarily driven -- almost exclusively driven by incremental room nights.
And we also had strong demand out of our leisure transient during the quarter as well which was up 16%.
And that compares to group which was down slightly at little over 2%.
So we feel good about the transient strength during the quarter.
And we expect transient to continue to be strong throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Looking at the acquisitions it appears you guys would have a bit of a competitive advantage where property would need operational changes and you guys are also more willing to go after resorts.
So are you seeing any resorts where you can switch the mix on the operations anything like that in the pipeline? Well we are seeing resorts out there and we're compelled with the group demand that's been picking up a lot so the cash flows on these resorts are looking a lot more -- better from our perspective.
So we're active in sort of the resort search.
And generally we think that's a market that probably has more upside than it has in the past couple of years given the resurgence of the group demand.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Anything in there where Rob and team can make some changes and flip the needle for the next year and you can put in your underwriting? Is that how you guys will win acquisitions rather than buy core assets? Wes generally yes.
So we're obviously looking at core markets as well as these resort markets.
As we said in the prepared remarks we don't think that this is the time in the cycle to take deep turnarounds where you -- a Lexington for instance where you buy it plan it take a year to renovate it and a couple of years to realize the benefit.
So a likely scenario is where we find a hotel that's been undermanaged owned by the same family an owner for 25 years and there's ability to kind of go in there and shake it up by either changing manager or just getting very aggressive on both the revenue and the cost side with our asset management expertise.
And so that is a likely scenario for us.
We also believe that the resort trends because you asked that question specifically are very strong for these say 4-star resorts.
That customer is doing extremely well in this recovery that we're having now.
And we've looked at a couple.
And frankly we think they're underpriced and underappreciating that trend line.
So we see an opportunity there.
We're just trying to make sure that we find a deal that kind of works on all the points that we're underwriting.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
Looking at the Hotel Rex I mean it's been an underperformer.
But when I look at TripAdvisor it looks like a really strong hotel very well appreciated.
Is there anything holding that back such as legacy business on the books? Or is there anything you can do there? That's a great question Wes.
You're right.
There is some legacy business that we're pushing out of that hotel.
And we see that starting in Q3 and beyond we won't have that lapping issue going forward.
We're very focused on the revenue management side on the hotel.
We also have a new GM there so we're very excited for what he's going to bring to the asset.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes the line of Nikhil Bhalla from FBR Capital Markets.
This is Weston Bloomer asking on behalf of Nikhil.
Most of my questions have already been answered but I have one on more group pace specifically for 2015.
It was pretty helpful when you guys provided group pace for Chicago.
I know it's pretty early with not a lot on the books but could you guys provide an outlook on group pace for 2015 over 2014 levels? I think at this point last year group pace in 2Q '13 was [indiscernible] between 9% and 10% for 2014.
I'm just trying to get a comparison there.
No problem.
This is Sean.
I'll start by just telling you that group pace for '15 it's a little early to do anything meaningful on 2015.
As we sit here today a little over 50% of our 2015 business is on the books.
So it probably won't be as meaningful now as it will be next quarter is when we really want to start talking about '15 pace.
But that being said our pace year-over-year is down a little bit for our portfolio.
We actually feel pretty good and feel strong about the first half of the year.
There's holes in the back half of the year.
But that we obviously have a lot of time to fill that.
I think on specific markets our 3 big group hotels Rob has already talked about Chicago but Boston is up close to 8% in pace.
And that's coming off a record year in 2013 -- pardon 2014.
And then Minneapolis which has roughly flat citywide activity is actually up a little bit on 2015.
So we think it's really too early to draw any conclusions on the '15 booking pace.
And we'll provide more color on that after the third quarter.
Yes.
Wes I would just add 2 points.
One is the holes that we have are in the back half of the year so there's plenty of time to fill those and we're getting good momentum.
The second is a number of the properties they're not the big group houses but the smaller houses we've taken a more aggressive approach.
And actually in some of those we've decided to lower our group exposure because the transient is good.
And so there's -- D.C.
Westin is one where we think there's more upside in the transient so we're actually holding back some of the group at those hotels because we think we'll get a higher RevPAR and more profitability by employing that strategy.
And Rob has really taken a property-by-property approach looked at the market the citywides and changing the mix at some of these hotels to maximize profitability in '15.
Your next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What was the deal with that litigation settlement? I don't recall hearing about that before? Sure Lukas.
So it's at our Westin Boston.
There were some construction defects with the waterproofing in the garage where it needs to go back and be resealed.
So there was a suit brought against the contractor and we prevailed.
And so they settled it with us and we received a gross amount of about $14 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you guys probably repaired that a couple of years ago and they just now reimbursed you for it essentially? No.
We'll repair it over the next couple of years during the downtime to try to minimize disruption.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do you guys have any updates on your thoughts of what you may do with the land option at the Boston Westin? Yes Lukas.
This is Troy speaking.
That's one of my top priorities this year is to evaluate and make a decision here on our expansion plans there.
Obviously the Seaport is particularly strong area a lot of new construction there.
So we're spending a lot of time evaluating that decision.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the transaction environment.
As it becomes harder for REITs to buy single assets how are you viewing M&amp;A as a possible alternative in the REIT space? Yes.
I guess there's 2 questions really in there.
There's the public-to-public and then there's the public pursuing private portfolios which theoretically you may be able to get at a better price.
I think the outlook by most of the companies -- and I'm going to guess most of the Board of Directors of the public companies is similar to ours which is this is a great time.
There are a lot of opportunities to grow through organic cash flow growth because it will be most likely an elongated cycle.
There is obviously value to being bigger with a number of these companies to try to lower your cost of capital particularly your cost of debt and increase your liquidity.
But I think certainly 2014 I think it's a less likely scenario.
As we mature through the cycle the odds start going up.
I think that's kind of the setup.
Okay.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the conference back to Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you Kim.
To everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you next quarter.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Denise and I will be the operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Brett Stewart Director of Finance.
Please proceed sir Thank you Denise.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call and Webcast.
Before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law and may not be historical fact.
They also may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
Moreover as management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliation to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mark Brugger our President and Chief Executive Officer.
He is joined by Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Chief Investment Officer.
Mark? Thanks Brett.
Let me start with the obvious today.
This is a great time to be in the hotel business.
The third quarter was nothing short of robust for the lodge industry.
Occupancy grew 3.8% while ADR was up 5.2% leading to over 9% RevPAR growth.
Importantly this was an even better quarter for DiamondRock.
I’m proud to say that this was the best growth quarter for the company in our 10-year history.
Our portfolio delivered 18.6% RevPAR growth more than double the industry average and 531 basis points of profit margin growth.
These industry leading results are evidence that our portfolio transformation and intense asset management initiatives are starting to pay off.
Importantly the out performance in the portfolio was broad based and we made great strides in stealing market share from our competitors.
The portfolio gained over 7 points of market share in the quarter while six hotels had stellar RevPAR growth of north of 20%.
17 of 27 hotels outperformed the industry average with double digit RevPAR growth.
One catalyst for this quarter’s performance is the actualization of the benefits from the $140 million capital investment program we started in 2013.
This was most clearly demonstrated by the outsized growth at the Lexington the Courtyard Midtown the Westin DC the Westin San Diego and our Boston Hilton.
In fact the four pack that we purchased from Blackstone in 2012 is beginning to hit its stride and the four hotel portfolio delivered RevPAR growth of nearly 27% in the quarter with margin expansion of 434 basis points.
More importantly we think that the benefits of these repositionings will continue well into 2015 and beyond.
This was also a great quarter for the company on the asset management front.
Rob’s team continued implementing their many asset management initiatives.
The benefits were both top and bottom line.
With new sales strategies; the majority of our hotels gained market share and beat their local markets.
On cost containment the nickels are really adding up with a proactive approach to every avenue of expense reduction.
For the quarter profit margin expansion was 531 basis points or 353 basis points excluding the Lexington which was under renovation last year.
14 of our hotels grew profit margins by more than 250 basis points with 10 of our hotels achieving profit margin growth of more than 350 basis points.
In short we’re on track to deliver above market margin growth this year and we expect that our efforts will lead to strong growth next year as well.
While internal growth was definitely strongest quarter the company was also active creating value through external growth efforts.
We closed on two great acquisitions in the quarter the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square and the Inn at Key West.
These hotels are located in the top two RevPAR markets in the United States.
The Hilton Garden Inn was acquired on September first for $450 000 per key.
The hotel hit the ground running.
We sold out 21 of the last 26 days and our average rate is around $300.
More importantly this deal has already created value.
In fact we are booking a $24 million gain in connection with the acquisition.
But to most accurately o reflect our recurring earnings it will be added back to our adjusted numbers.
The future looks bright for this hotel and we still expect it to achieve at least a 9% EBITDA yield on our investment.
The Inn at Key West was also a great addition to the portfolio.
We acquired the hotel in an off market transaction and the purchase price represented at 7.6% cap rate on 2014 forecasted NOI.
Actually the hotel is tracking ahead of underwriting gained market share in the quarter and had 70% flow through during our period of ownership in the quarter.
This hotel provides a footprint in Key West a target resort market with highly favorable supply/demand dynamics and with the highest RevPAR in the country.
As discussed previously DiamondRock will remain disciplined in evaluating capital allocation opportunities.
We continue to maintain a highly defined acquisition strategy and are confident that our team will be able to identify acquisitions and meet all of our strict investment criteria.
We continue to target opportunities in urban and resort locations with an emphasis on prime markets on the west coast and in South Florida.
Further despite our conviction that there are several more years of industry growth ahead we believe that it’s prudent to avoid opportunities that require significant capital investment or deep and lengthy turnarounds.
We are also primarily targeting acquisitions in the$50 million to $150 million range.
Finally we are very sensitive to our cost of capital.
We’ll only pursue acquisitions that create value in the near term.
On the disposition front we see robust demand for non-prime assets in today’s marketplace.
We are reviewing our portfolio for opportunities to take advantage of that market and to potentially upgrade the portfolio by selling some of our lowest RevPAR hotels.
Of course it’s our policy not to announce those deals until they are closed.
Now let me turn outlook for the remainder of the year.
We raised and narrowed our full year guidance which reflects our conviction in the strength of lodging demand within our markets as well as our third quarter out performance.
Our updated 2014 guidance is for RevPAR growth of 11.5% to 12.5% an increase of 150 basis points at the mid-point.
Based on that growth we project adjusted EBITDA of $232 million to $236 million an increase of $6.5 million at the bottom end of the range.
Consequently we expect adjusted FFO per share to be in the range of $0.87 to $0.89.
For full year we expect our portfolio’s hotel adjusted EBITDA margins to expand by more than 265 basis points which is consistent with prior expectations.
For the fourth quarter we expect our portfolio to continue to generate above market RevPAR and margin growth despite tougher comparisons and less dynamics city wide calendars.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Sean Mahoney who’ll provide more detail on our third quarter operating results asset management initiatives and balance sheet management.
Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our third quarter results please note that our reported RevPAR and margin data is pro forma.
While the pro forma adjustments include the Inn at Key West as if we owned it for all periods presented it excludes both the recently opened Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central as well as the Oak Brook Hills Resort which was sold earlier in the year.
Let me start by reiterating Mark’s comments that we had an outstanding quarter that exceeded expectations.
Our portfolio RevPAR growth was over twice the industry average.
For the balance of 2014 and 2015 our portfolio is expected to benefit from several unique catalysts including outsized growth from our $140 million capital renovation program ramp up from the Lexington Hotel repositioning and re-branding the Marriott's Autograph Collection the recent opening of the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central positive momentum from successful asset management initiatives and strong group performance led by our hotels in Boston.
Now let’s jump into the third quarter numbers.
Overall it was an outstanding quarter for both the industry and DiamondRock’s portfolio.
The third quarter out performance was led by our hotels in Boston New York Washington D.C and Chicago.
The company reported adjusted EBITDA of $66.8 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.25.
Our industry leading third quarter RevPAR growth and margin expansion gives us confidence to increase our 2014 guidance.
It is also a nice testament to the value creation form last year’s $140 million capital program and the success of our asset management initiatives.
The numbers speak for themselves.
Our RevPAR growth was 18.6%.
This growth was driven by our ability to push rate which increased 10.7% and sizeable gains in occupancy.
Our topline out performance combined with good cost controls allowed our hotels to achieve profit margin expansion of 531 basis points.
Our portfolio benefited from pricing power across all demand segments led by group which increased revenue 26% during the third quarter.
The business transient segment was also incredibly strong up 19%.
Our group business contributed to a 6% increase in quarterly banquet and catering revenues which contributed to 156 basis points of food and beverage margin expansion.
Our pro forma results excluding the Lexington were also exceptional and significantly outperformed the industry with RevPAR growth of 13.5% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 353 basis points.
Year to date results have also been very strong.
For the year to date period ended September 30 the company reported pro forma RevPAR growth of 13.2% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 301 basis points.
We expect our portfolio to continue to generate above market RevPAR growth and margin expansion during the fourth quarter.
Shifting gears to group as expected our group businesses outperformed during the quarter.
The group segment was led by the Boston Westin and Boston Hilton with combined group revenue growth of 59% during the quarter.
Other top performing group hotels during the third quarter included the Washington DC Westin up 56%; The Frenchman’s Reef Marriott up 66%; the Worthington Renaissance up 27%’ and the San Diego Westin up 43%.
Looking ahead our group segment remains well positioned to outperform.
Our short term group booking activity during the quarter was outstanding with a 24% increase in fourth quarter bookings compared to prior year.
The fourth quarter booking pace has improved to up approximate 4% compared to flat as of the end of the second quarter.
We currently have almost 100% of the forecast of 2014 group business already under contract.
Overall our 2014 group booking pace improved at 9.6% an acceleration from the 8% group pace at the end of last quarter.
Our 2014 booking pace is being driven by a 5.6% increase in rooms sold and a 3.8% increase in average rates.
Third quarter performance reflects exceptionally strong results at almost all of our hotels with 17 hotels reporting double digit RevPAR growth.
Let me spend a few minutes highlighting some truly outstanding individual hotel achievements.
As expected the Lexington Hotel's third quarter continued to ramp up from last year's renovation and rebranding to Marriott's Autograph Collection.
In the quarter Marriott channels delivered approximately 50% of the room revenue for the hotel.
We have high expectations as the hotel gains greater awareness with both transient and special corporate customers.
We continue to be happy with direction of the hotel which we now expect to perform slightly ahead of our 2014 underwriting projections.
We expect the ramp up to continue for several years and achieve approximately 50% growth in hotel adjusted EBITDA during this period.
The repositioned Washington DC Westin gained traction in all segments during the quarter.
The hotel benefited from our capital investment with 34.5% RevPAR growth and 786 basis points of margin expansion.
The Boston Hilton extended its five quarter run of double digit RevPAR growth delivering over 24% growth by taking advantage of both city wide compression and strong special corporate demand.
The hotel continues to outperform the market gaining 12 percentage points of market share during 2014.
The Boston Westin also achieved over 24% RevPAR growth during the quarter.
The hotel also took advantage of strong city wide activity which contributed to a 53% increase in group room revenues and strong corporate demand in Boston resulting in over 33% growth in business transient revenue at a 14% higher average rate.
Our hotels in Chicago also outperformed during the quarter.
The Chicago Conrad benefitted from new leadership at the hotel and achieved RevPAR growth of 11% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 702 basis points.
The Chicago Marriott had strong group performance and achieved RevPAR growth of 8.1% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 157 basis points.
In total the two hotels exceeded our hotel adjusted EBITDA expectations by approximately $1 million.
Finally The Hotel Rex in San Francisco had a great third quarter with RevPAR growth over 20% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 774 basis points.
Next I would like to provide a brief update on our asset management initiatives.
The asset management team is firing on all cylinders.
The success of recent asset management initiatives including revenue enhancement strategies cost containment measures and ROI projects are beginning to show up in the numbers.
Our portfolio achieved hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 531 basis points during the third quarter and 301 basis points for the year-to-date period ended September 30.
These growth rates are the highest among our peers.
We also expect our asset management initiatives to contribute to outsize margin expansion in 2015.
Let me now spend a couple of minutes providing an update on a few of our significant initiatives.
We expect to commence a project to add 41 rooms to the Boston Hilton during the fourth quarter which is projected to cost approximately $9.5 million.
This project will take place during the seasonally slow period this winter and will be completed by the end of the first quarter.
We expect this project to generate an IIR of approximately 20% and add over $15 million to the hotel’s net asset value.
We don’t expect any disruption from this project.
At the Boston Westin we just completed the project to convert unfinished space into new meeting and pre-function space.
This project is expected to achieve an IIR close to 30% and did not cause material disruption.
At the Lexington Hotel we are currently completing the re-concepting of vacant restaurant space.
This flexible space will be an elite lounge serving breakfast in the morning be sold for group meetings during the day and provide addition capacity for the high demand lobby bars in the evening.
This project is underway and is expected to be completed next month with an investment of approximately $1.4 million and a projected IIR north of 30%.
Finally we are focused on creating value by uncovering opportunities to add new guest rooms at existing hotels including the JW Marriott at Cherry Creek Westin Washington D.C our two New York City courtyards and the Sonoma Renaissance.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet which we think is among the best in the industry.
Being prudent stewards of our investors capital has been a cornerstone of DiamondRock we founded the company.
We have a nearly decade long track record of consistently maintaining a straightforward and low risk balance sheet that has essentially no corporate debt.
This discipline has allowed us to return over $0.5 billion in cash dividends to our shareholders since our IPO.
Today we continue to maintain ample liquidity and expect to end the year with approximately $140 million of unrestricted cash and an undrawn corporate revolver.
We are really well positioned to create value.
I will now return the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
To sum it up lodge history fundamentals are terrific.
DiamondRock had a phenomenal third quarter and we are well positioned to deliver solid full year results.
Looking out over the next several quarter we expect fundamentals to be strong with lodging demand outstripping the low levels of supply grow projected for the industry.
Also we are encouraged by the current trends in GDP growth employment growth corporate profits and international travel.
As I said at the start of my prepared remarks this is a great time to be in the hotel business.
It is also a great time to be part of DiamondRock and there are several catalysts that can drive above average growth for the company over the next several years.
First the Hilton Garden in Times Square will add over $6 million incrementally to the company’s ETHIBA once it reaches stabilization.
Second the Lexington is on track to grow hotel adjusted EBITDA by over 50% to approximately $30 million over the next few years.
The repositioned Westin D.C is also a great catalyst for the company.
Ultimately achieving our underwritten target of 105% RevPAR penetration will add approximately $2.5 million to the hotel’s bottom line.
As Sean mentioned we are also working on several ROI projects across the portfolio and we expect the three largest of those to contribute an incremental $3 million of EBITDA next year.
Lastly we remained focused on cost containment and on implementing new asset management initiatives that will continue to drive profit margin growth for the company.
With that we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question comes from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi guys it’s Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just wanted to touch a little bit on acquisitions.
If I heard you correctly it sounded like you guys increased the high end by $50 million to $50 million or $150 million is sort of where your comfort level is today.
I’m just curious what led you to increase the high end of that.
Austin this is Mark.
No the 50 to 150 is the same as the last earnings call.
That’s been our target.
We are less focused on big deals.
We are not targeting big box hotels right now.
We have three in our portfolio.
We think that’s adequate.
We think it’s -- frankly at this part of the cycle it’s too much of a big bet generally to do these big hotels given that we are mid cycle.
So we are much more focused on these $50 million to $150 million opportunities that we see in the marketplace.
How soon do you guys think you could get the dry powder that you have available today put to work? I think you said it’s around $250 million available of dry powder.
Just curious on the timing on some of that.
We are very active in the process.
I can tell you Troy is doing a tremendous job of uncovering opportunities but we don’t announce deals until generally we are close to closing them.
Are you finding that there’s more opportunities today or have things slowed a bit as we get toward the end of the year? I would say over the last three to six months we’ve been pleased with the volume of deals and the quality of deals that we’ve seen in the market place.
Troy has an excellent track record of finding off market deals.
The last five deals that he’s done have all been off market.
I think he’s -- we are seeing some things that may not be in the flow that other people are seeing.
But there’s always a myriad of reasons why people are selling.
We are starting to see more of those percolate through the system now.
So I’d say overall we are pleased with what we are seeing in the marketplace.
Thanks.
And then just one last one it sounded like the Inn at Key West is outperforming you guys’ initial underwriting expectations.
I’m just curious what’s driving the better performance there.
There’s two things it’s both top and bottom line.
There were some transition costs before our period of ownership in the quarter but since our ownership the last 45 days of the quarter flow is better than we anticipated.
It was about 70%.
Then the RevPAR growth in the market and -- we gained probably 2 points of market share that were not in the underwriting during the quarter.
It’s gaining a little bit more share than we anticipated which is great and the flow is a little better than we anticipated with some of the management stuff we were able to put in place on day one of ownership.
Our next question comes from Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys and congrats on the strong quarter.
Can you just remind us why your F&amp;B and other revenues are revenues are running flat to down year over year? I know pro forma they are actually running in the 6% to 7% range but still a lot slower than room revenues.
I think it’s partially a mix shift issue.
But can you help us to think about -- how think about it going forward.
Thank you.
Thomas this is Sean.
The F&amp;B revenues what we projected for the beginning of the year were up mid-single digits.
And so we are tracking where we thought we are going to track for the year.
For the quarter and for last quarter our F&amp;B was actually down and that was a function of the group activity for the quarter during the second quarter.
For the third quarter our group revenues were up 26% but our total F&amp;B revenues were only up 7.4%.
A lot of that was the type of groups that were on the books.
Some of those were legacy groups from before but it was consistent with our expectations.
I think the key takeaway though on F&amp;B with the 7.4% increase in revenues is that we were able to drive margins up 156 basis points on that growth and that was led by a combination of both banquet and catering as well as on our outlet revenues for the quarter.
Hey Thomas this is Rob.
We were also pleased with our controllable spending in our labor management and food and beverages as well.
Thanks guys.
Then one of the OTAs suggested that the strengthening dollar is having a negative impact on 4Q RevPAR rends in the U.S.
Obviously international visitation has an outsized impact on gateway cities versus other places but given your exposure are you seeing any of that? Thanks.
Hey Thomas this is Mark.
We don’t have specific data on that but the trends we’re seeing in transient particularly in New York in the fourth quarter continue to be slightly ahead of our expectations.
We’re not seeing a slowdown related to international travel particularly.
And that could be because there’s enough transient demand domestically to make up for it but we’re not seeing anything now that would lead us to believe that there’s a slowdown in that demand.
Our next question comes from Nikhil Bhalla with FBR Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
This is Weston asking on behalf of Nikhil.
I was just curious to how your group pace is trending in 2015 at this point versus where it stood last year.
And then to dive a little deeper if you can provide some color on how your group focused hotels are doing in terms of group pace for 2015 namely the Boston Westin and the Frenchman.
Thanks.
Okay I’ll start on this one.
This is Mark Weston.
On 2015 booking pace the velocity of the booking pace has actually been very strong.
If I looked in the quarter for third quarter we actually increased 15 piece revenue piece by 400 basis points which is pretty remarkable.
But we’re being very tactical about what kind of group and how much group we’re putting at particular hotels.
I know Rob can talk about the Westin D.C and Frenchman’s in particular.
I know you asked about the Boston Westin.
Boston is going to have another great group year in 2015.
But what we’re looking at is looking at total revenues spend by the groups and making sure that it’s not more profitable to tune back some of the lower rated or lower total revenue group and put in place higher rated transients.
So we’re employing different strategies to different hotels.
I would say overall we’re pleased with group piece.
Boston looks like it’s going to have another good year.
But I’d let Rob -- we were having this conversation earlier talk about Frenchman’s and Westin DC is good examples of the tactical mix shift we’re making around group in our hotels for 2015.
Thanks Mark.
Hi Weston.
How are you this morning? With regards to the Frenchman’s Reef we’ve really been very strategic in our approach.
Last year during Q1 we took in an abundance of group business which was positive in one side in terms of driving occupancy but it left some opportunity with rates.
We focus with -- on the high rated transient business for Q1.
In Washington D.C at our Westin we’re also focused on -- we’ve lowered our group ceilings in order to take advantage of the repositioning of the asset and the renovations and we’ve received incredible support from the corporate market both from a business transient and also from corporate group as well with regards to that.
Our next question comes from Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Hey guys nice quarter.
I just had a quick question.
I just want to make sure I’m not missing anything below the line here.
It looks like you raised your full year RevPAR guidance to now above what was the – your low end of your current RevPAR guidance is now above or at the high end prior.
You assume that property margins are going to be relatively consistent to where you assumed before but you didn’t raise your EBITDA and FFO guidance to above the – with the low end being about at to above the high end of the prior guidance similar to what you did with RevPAR.
Is there something going on below the line that we should think about heading into 4Q? No Ryan this is Mark.
Thanks for the question.
I appreciate you raising that.
So as you know we raised the bottom and top end of our guidance.
But the bottom end was raised $6.5 million on the EBITDA.
We think the full year 2014 guidance is pretty strong.
We’re expecting the fourth quarter to still be very strong.
Obviously citywides and renovation comps are less beneficial for us in the fourth quarter.
But we’re seeing really good strength at a number of our hotels.
Like the Westin DC is going to continue to benefit from the renovation the Lexington from the re-branding.
Chicago looks great both at our Marriott Chicago and the Conrad Hilton there.
Boston Hilton which has had such a great run we expect to have another great quarter in the fourth quarter.
Charleston Renaissance looks good.
And obviously we have the new Hilton project in Times Square.
So there’s a lot of good things happening there.
But I would say looking at the bottom end raise is probably the difference versus just looking at the midpoint change in the math that you’re doing.
Okay.
So it doesn’t sound like there’s anything material below the property level line that’s driving that disconnect between RevPAR EBITDA (inaudible) so that’s helpful.
And then I guess the second question is looking out to 2015 are there an any particular markets that you are a little bit more concerned about or a little bit more bullish about with regards to whether it be citywides or overall booking pace or just general dynamics that are occurring in the marketplace? I’d say for the big markets so New York we expect obviously there’s supply coming in but we expect demand to be good in New York.
I think relatively constructive on that market.
Obviously the west coast San Francisco looks very strong.
San Diego looks like it’s going to have a good year.
We are feeling generally bullish in all the west coast markets.
Living wage will be a whole bucket in some of those markets potentially on the EBITDA growth.
Boston is going to have another great year we expect in 2015 moving down the coast.
We talked about New York D.C.
We except D.C.
to have another mediocre year but we except that our hotel will be able to gain a lot of market share.
We’d expect good results from our D.C.
hotel.
Then we expect the resorts to have another piece of leisure demand.
The resort buckets had a good year and we expect that trend at the resort market to continue to be good into 2015.
Thanks Mark.
That’s good.
That’s all for me and I look forward to seeing you guys this week in Atlanta.
(Operator instructions) Our next question comes from Anto Savarirajan with Goldman Sachs.
Please process sir.
if we look at 4Q share of full year EBITDA it has usually been in the mid to high 30s range.
The way you are guiding suggests something like 25% to 26% of full year EBITDA.
Can you throw some light here? Is it all due to renovation calendars having a bigger impact in the fourth quarter or are there some other issues that we need to be aware of? This is Sean.
Our historical fourth quarter when we reported under the Marriott calendar for Marriott hotels used to include four months of activity versus three months of activity today.
So when you look at the historical fourth quarters the waiting has shifted this year and last year relative to what DiamondRock has historically reported which explain most of the distortion.
Got it.
On potentially selling some lower RevPAR hotels can you clarify here? if we look at the operating start schedule that you provide should we think of hotels with a lower dollar value of RevPAR being taken out of the system or are you looking at certain hotels that are maybe in your math punching below on the RevPAR index? This is Mark.
Obviously every hotel has its own story and we are trying to -- right now what we are trying to do is look at the hotels that are probably the lowest quality hotels.
The easiest things for investors or analysts to do is look at the bottom 10% or 15% by average RevPAR in nominal dollars.
Those are the ones where we think there may be an arbitrage in the marketplace today because there’s a robust demand and there’s less distinction between high quality and low RevPAR hotels.
Frankly we’ve had a number of reverse inquiries from some unlikely buyers that make us a little bit more bullish on the ability to monetize that arbitrage opportunity at this moment in time.
We are looking at them and trying to create value for our shareholders by taking advantage of that environment.
Got it.
One last question for me.
On the Lex in your prepared remarks you said 50% of revenues came from Marriott channels.
Can you provide some context as to how this compares to similar hotels like the Lex and what share of bookings or revenues they get from brand pipe? Sure Anto this is Rob.
In terms of the Marriott production this is a typical penetration.
I think where the emphasis is coming from whereas before it was the Radisson and now it's now part of Marriott and then and independent now is part of the Marriott channel.
We’re seeing similar production levels coming from the Marriott channels as we see in other hotels so very positive for us.
Rob do you want to talk about the Lexington about where the upside is going to come from in segmentation just to make that clear? Sure.
We are very much focused in on our special corporate demand now that the hotel has hit its one year anniversary as being part of the Marriott system.
We’ve really been able to further penetrate within the special corporate segment and especially relevant along the east side.
In addition our group opportunities further grow especially as we gain traction with the various missions for like UNJ for example and further exposure with the federal government.
We’ve been very very successful in driving demand through those channels.
Our next question comes from Steven Kent with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Mark just to follow up a little bit on Anto’s question you noted a couple of times that you were considering maybe selling some properties.
I guess what I’m struggling with is I know that the environment is pretty strong out there but you are trading at around 14 times or so.
Would you consider selling an asset that would be least dilutive on a multiple basis? Or would you not do that considering where we are in the cycle? Right it's a great question.
So we are trying to do what we’ve done the last several years is try to recycle capital.
The ideal situation for us would be to sell a lower RevPAR lower quality hotel in our portfolio and to quickly redeploy that same amount of capital into something that has a similar EBITDA multiple on 2015 and create higher quality and better growth prospects.
That’s really what we are trying to accomplish.
So it would be more of a capital recycling play of something that’s got similar EBITDA multiples on 2015 numbers.
That’s what we direct the team to try to accomplish.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you Denise.
To everyone on the call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you with our fourth quarter results.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Denise and I will be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now turn the conference over to Mr.
Brett Stewart Director of Finance.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call and Webcast.
Before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law and may not be historical fact.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
Moreover as management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliations to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mark Brugger our Chief Executive Officer.
Joining Mark today on today's call are Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Chief Investment Officer.
Mark? Thanks Brett.
Well this is one of those earnings calls that you really look forward to because all of the pieces seem to have fallen into place.
The fourth quarter finished strong and closed out a record year for DiamondRock.
During 2014 our portfolio generated pro forma RevPAR growth of 11.6% and 275 basis points of profit margin growth.
Both of which are among the highest if not the highest in the peer group.
The overall execution of the company was excellent on a number of fronts in 2014.
Our asset management -- our initiatives to maximize hotel operating results were equally effective on both the top and bottom line.
Our asset management team's motto is Gentle Pressure Applied Relentlessly.
Acting as a strong guiding hand and proactive partner with the teams that are our properties we work as diligently to implement new often aggressive revenue management strategies across our portfolio.
The payoff in 2004 was evident as almost 1/2 of our hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth.
The cost containment and profit flow-through efforts also yielded great results with 15 of 27 hotels growing hotel adjusted EBITDA margins by more than 200 basis points.
I'm very proud of our asset management team and our COO Rob Tanenbaum in particular for these successes.
Equally important our investment program had a number of wins in 2014.
As we started the year the strategic goal was to continue recycling capital from slower growth non-core assets into higher quality hotels located in great long-term markets.
Frankly we exceeded our original expectations as we found unique buyers and uncovered several high-quality accretive acquisitions despite a very competitive environment.
In 2014 we successfully sold 2 non-core hotels.
The Oak Brook Hills Resort in suburban Chicago was sold for a 30x -- for 30x the trailing 12-month EBITDA.
And the Los Angeles Airport Marriott was sold for a 6% cap rate including deferred capital to a Chinese entity.
To put it in perspective in terms of quality the combined 2014 RevPAR for those sold hotels was only $108 which is 33% lower than our portfolio average.
This really is the case of addition by subtraction for DiamondRock.
We are even more pleased to talk about our acquisitions in 2014.
Last year we invested approximately $325 million to acquire 3 hotels and each one is turning out to be a compelling story on its own.
The Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central finished the year with an average RevPAR of $262 and is on track to generate an impressive 9% EBITDA yield in 2015.
As you may know we booked a $24 million gain on this acquisition last year.
The second acquisition was The Inn at Key West which has a high average RevPAR of $184 exceeded our underwriting and our purchase price now represents an 8.2% to cap rate on 2014 NOI.
The final acquisition in 2014 was The Westin Beach Resort in Fort Lauderdale.
We replaced the hotel manager upon acquisition and we are implementing our asset management initiatives.
In the first year we underwrote to pullout over $2 million of cost and expand the profit margins by 1 000 basis points.
I am pleased to report today that the hotel is currently forecasted to beat our underwriting by almost $1 million this year.
As you can imagine we are really thrilled with this investment.
Additionally this morning we announced the acquisition of the 157-room Shorebreak Hotel which is located beachfront in Southern California.
We brought in Kimpton to take over management of this lifestyle hotel.
Our purchase price represents a 12.8x multiple of 2015 forecasted EBITDA.
The Shorebreak deal met all of our investment criteria.
It's located in a target West Coast market with great growth prospects it's immediately accretive and it has ample opportunities for us to implement new asset management initiatives to enhance performance.
Moreover the acquisition of the Shorebreak was match funded with proceeds generated in the fourth quarter from our aftermarket equity program.
The decision to match-fund the acquisition with equity was primarily driven by 2 considerations: first we were able to opportunistically lock in value creation through spread investing as we issued stock at a gross price of $15.13 per share or an implied 14.5x EBITDA multiple on the midpoint of our guidance.
We redeployed that capital at more than 1.5x better multiple; secondly the equity issuance allowed us to maintain approximately $200 million of investment capacity which sets us up nicely for 2015.
Of course we will remain disciplined in evaluating capital allocation opportunities and are confident that our team will be able to identify acquisitions that meet all of our investment criteria.
The team is particularly focused on adding West Coast exposure and finding unique opportunities to create value primarily through asset management initiatives.
We are generally shying away from larger bets as well as deals that might require significant capital investment and lengthy turnarounds.
We are primarily targeting medium-sized acquisitions in the $50 million to $150 million range.
Our last 4 deals as I've described above and the Hotel Rex San Francisco before that really represents the kinds of deals that we are looking to do.
Before I turn the call over to Sean I want to take a moment to discuss the New York City market.
We remain bullish on the long-term fundamentals and real estate values for New York City although supply clearly remains a short-term issue.
However the city recently set a monthly occupancy record and finished last year at over 85% occupied.
The city also set another record in 2014 with more than 56 million inbound visitors and expects to break this new record again in 2015.
As important as the long-term demand trends which have been double the national average over the last 25 years real estate values in New York City continue to rise.
New York remains by a wide margin the most liquid and globally sought after market for real estate investment in the United States.
And these have made solid gains over the last year as average prices exceeded the prior peak with select service hotel trades hitting $650 000 per key and full-service hotel trades recently hitting $1.4 million and then $2 million per key.
New York City hotel transaction volume for the last 2 years was $5.5 billion double that of the next most active market.
New York City also commanded the largest amount of international investment dollars with offshore investors accounting for 55% of total Manhattan hotel transaction volume.
Now we do expect the first quarter to be difficult for the market as supply will impact the first quarter the most because it's the seasonally slowest demand period of the year and there is a difficult Super Bowl comp.
However to put it into perspective the first quarter only represents about 6% of full year EBITDA at our hotels.
As we move through the year we do expect RevPAR to strengthen and demand to outstrip supply for the balance of the year.
I want to emphasize on this call that DiamondRock has a differentiated New York portfolio.
Our New York City hotels grew RevPAR approximately 9% in the fourth quarter which outperformed the market by 800 basis points.
We expect this trend of significant outperformance to continue into 2015 for 3 reasons: first the Lexington Hotel which accounts for more than 40% of our New York City exposure is still ramping up from its $47 million renovation and brand [ph] conversion.
For 2015 we expect the Lexington to outperform the market with RevPAR in the high single digits; second our newly opened Hilton Garden Inn Times Square is also ramping up and is expected to have a terrific 2015; lastly in total approximately 70% of our hotel exposure is located in the Midtown East submarket which expects less than 2% cumulative supply growth during 2015 and 2016.
As evidence of why we believe that some markets do matter RevPAR growth for hotels located in Midtown East exceeded the broader New York City MSA by 260 basis points during 2014.
Performance could be enhanced even more if pending hotel to residential conversions occur in Midtown East over the next few years.
With that I'll turn the call over to Sean to discuss our fourth quarter and full year operations in more detail.
Sean? Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our fourth quarter results please note that our reported RevPAR and margin data are presented on a pro forma basis to include The Inn at Key West and Westin Fort Lauderdale as if they were owned for all periods presented and exclude the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central the LAX Marriott and Oak Brook Hills Resort.
Let me start by reiterating Mark's comments that the fourth quarter was another outstanding quarter for DiamondRock.
Our portfolio RevPAR grew 8.3% which significantly exceeded industry upper upscale RevPAR growth of 6.7%.
Just as important our portfolio generated strong hotel adjusted EBITDA margin growth of 196 basis points during the quarter.
Now let's jump into the fourth quarter numbers.
Overall it was a great quarter for both the industry and DiamondRock.
Our fourth quarter outperformance was led by both our hotels in Boston the Lexington Hotel the Washington D.C.
Westin and our 2 hotels in Denver.
The company reported adjusted EBITDA of $60.8 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.21.
It is worth noting that fourth quarter adjusted FFO was negatively impacted by approximately $4 million or $0.02 per share from a non-cash income tax expense recorded on the gain from the sale of the LAX Marriott.
This non-cash expense was not factored into our prior guidance.
Our fourth quarter RevPAR growth of 8.3% was driven by our ability to push rate which increased 4.5% and an incremental 2.7 percentage points in occupancy.
Our top line growth combined with good cost controls allowed our hotels to achieve hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 196 basis points.
Additionally 15 of our 27 hotels generated double-digit RevPAR growth and 12 hotels grew margins by more than 200 basis points.
Overall our portfolio benefited from strength in the business and leisure transient segments which increased revenue 9.3% during the quarter.
Our group business also performed well during the quarter achieving 4.7% revenue growth which was primarily driven by increased rates.
Recent positive trends in the short-term group booking activity continued this quarter with a 15% growth in the quarter -- for the quarter bookings compared to the prior year.
Our group segment was led by the Chicago Marriott the Boston Hilton and the Lexington Hotel which achieved group revenue growth of 13% 30% and 50% respectively.
Additionally the group segment contributed to a 6.2% increase in quarterly banquet and catering revenues which contributed to the 87 basis points of F&amp;B margin expansion.
In addition group spend on F&amp;B and AV increased 6.5% during the quarter which we believe is a corollary to group confidence.
Now let me spend a few minutes highlighting some truly outstanding individual hotel achievements.
The Lexington Hotel continue to ramp up from the 2013 renovation and rebranding to Marriott's Autograph Collection.
The fourth quarter was the first quarter that didn't benefit from renovation disruption during the prior year and the hotel generated approximately 15% RevPAR growth.
We continue to be happy with the direction of the hotel which finished approximately $1 million ahead of our 2014 underwriting.
We expect the ramp up to continue for several more years and to achieve approximately 50% growth in hotel adjusted EBITDA during this period.
The repositioned Washington D.C.
Westin gained traction in all segments during the quarter and achieved over 27% RevPAR growth.
The Boston Hilton extended its 6-quarter run of double-digit RevPAR growth delivering over 20% RevPAR growth through a coordinated effort of driving both group and special corporate demand.
The hotel continues to outperform the market having gained 11.5 percentage points of market share during 2014.
The San Diego Westin continues to draw incremental business from its recent renovation and repositioning achieving over 15% RevPAR growth and over 1 000 basis points of margin expansion during the quarter.
Our hotels in Denver also outperformed during the quarter achieving combined RevPAR growth of over 12% and combined hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of over 200 basis points.
Finally the Hotel Rex in San Francisco had a another great quarter with RevPAR growth of over 25% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 862 basis points.
This hotel really hit its stride during 2014 and we are very bullish on its future.
The hotel's expected to generate an attractive NOI yield over 8% during 2015.
Partially offsetting the positive trends in the quarter was a change to the Marriott Rewards redemption program which negatively impacted fourth quarter room revenue at the Vail Marriott by $1 million.
This led to the fourth quarter RevPAR contraction at the hotel.
This policy change negatively impacted our consolidated fourth quarter RevPAR growth by 70 basis points and margin expansion by approximately 50 basis points.
For the full year the company reported pro forma RevPAR growth of 11.6% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 275 basis points which was slightly ahead of our expectations.
For the full year transient revenue was up 12.3% driven by a 7.9% increase in ADR.
Group revenue for the full year increased 8.9% which was the result of a 4.8% increase in rooms sold and a 3.9% increase in average rate.
While Mark will discuss our 2015 outlook in more detail I would like to point out that we expect group business to take a backseat to business transient as our primary growth driver this year.
During 2015 group will shrink 100 basis points to 30% of room revenues with business transient increasing 200 basis points to 35% of room revenues.
We are coming off 2 good years of strong performance which was achieved through a combination of capturing incremental group demand and increasing group ADR.
We are happy with our existing group base and expect group revenues to increase 4% during 2015 which is expected to be driven by rate growth.
Our 2015 portfolio growth will be driven by the business transient segment which commands a $50 rate premium to group and is expected to achieve double-digit revenue growth.
Next I would like to provide a brief update on our asset management initiatives.
The asset management team is firing on all cylinders.
The success of recent asset management initiatives including revenue enhancement strategies cost-containment measures and ROI projects is beginning to show up in the numbers.
Our portfolio achieved hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 196 basis points during the fourth quarter and 275 basis points for the year.
These growth rates are the highest among our peers.
We expect our asset management initiatives to contribute to healthy margin expansion again in 2015.
Let me spend a couple of minutes providing an update on a few of our significant initiatives.
We are in the middle of our project at 41 rooms at the Boston Hilton.
This project is still expected to cost approximately $9.5 million.
We expect this project to generate an IRR of approximately 20% and add over $15 million to the hotel's net asset value.
At the Boston Westin we completed the project to convert unfinished space into new meeting and pre-function space during the fourth quarter.
This project is expected to achieve an IRR close to 30% and did not cause material disruption.
At the Fort Lauderdale Westin we are currently implementing several initiatives identified during our acquisition process which included replacing Starwood with HEI being opportunistic in our revenue management rightsizing hotel staffing levels terminating the restaurant franchise agreement closing an additional food and beverage outlet and introducing a resort fee.
Our initiatives contributed to December's impressive 25% RevPAR growth.
We are very bullish on this acquisition and the hotel's potential for outsized growth during 2015 which is already tracking ahead of our underwriting.
Initiating premium view categories at several hotels has also been very successful generating $400 000 of incremental revenue during the quarter.
We will continue to selectively roll out this initiative as well as introducing resort fees where appropriate in 2015.
We are also focused on creating value by uncovering opportunities to add limited new guestrooms at existing hotels including the JW Marriott Cherry Creek Westin Washington D.C.
our 2 New York City Courtyards and the Sonoma Renaissance.
Finally we have recently executed on a restaurant lease in Charleston which is expected to result in $400 000 of incremental NOI.
Lastly I would like to touch on our balance sheet which we believe is among the best in the industry.
Being prudent stewards of our investors capital has been a cornerstone of DiamondRock since we founded the company.
We have over a decade-long track record of consistently maintaining a straightforward and low-risk balance sheet that has essentially no corporate debt.
This discipline has allowed us to return over $0.5 billion in cash dividends to our shareholders since our IPO.
Today we continue to maintain ample liquidity and ended the year with over $140 million of unrestricted cash and an undrawn corporate revolver.
We also opportunistically issued approximately $71 million of equity under our ATM program which match funded the accretive Shorebreak acquisition without decreasing investment capacity.
Finally we have the opportunity to create value through refinancing our 2015 and 2016 debt maturities.
The average interest rate of the maturing debt is approximately 5.8% which is above current market.
We will opportunistically refinance these loans at market interest rates which we expect will result in annual interest savings of $8 million to $12 million or $0.04 to $0.06 per share.
These refinancings are expected to reduce our weighted average borrowing cost by 75 basis points to approximately 4.25%.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
Now let me turn to our outlook for 2015.
We spent a lot of time looking at data to understand the market overall and our market specifically.
As you are aware in 2014 industry generated RevPAR growth of 8.3%.
Importantly this was a reacceleration of growth.
Going into 2015 the data portends another strong year of performance as new hotel supply nationally remains muted and most of the significant corollaries to demand growth appear to be flashing green.
Employment growth GDP growth and consumer sentiment are all favorable.
I would note that the strengthening dollar will likely have some impact of major -- on demand in major international cities but does not represent a large segment of demand for DiamondRock.
In fact even in New York our international guests represent less than 15% of our business.
And that is weighted towards U.K.
guests that obviously have a more favorable currency.
The data also suggests that the future for rate growth is bright for the next few years.
Last year was the sixth year after recovery and yet 40% of the RevPAR gains still came from occupancy growth.
Historically that's just that there is significant rate growth potential remaining in the cycle.
We are very encouraged by that data.
For DiamondRock we entered 2015 with a number of unique growth catalysts that we expect to enhance our performance.
I'll just mention 4 of the big drivers for us: one outsized growth from recent acquisitions particularly at the Westin Beach resort in Fort Lauderdale and the Shorebreak; two upside from our intense asset management initiatives and pay off from the recent portfolio renovations including meaningful market outperformance at the Lexington Hotel and from ROI projects such as the building of a new ballroom at the Boston Westin and adding new keys at the Boston Hilton; three lower interest rates on near-term refinancings are expected to save us several million dollars a year in interest expense; and lastly external growth from our existing investment capacity.
It is also worth noting 2 other longer-term catalysts the company is evaluating: value from our expansion option at the Westin Boston Waterfront and changing the brand at the Chicago Conrad.
We will provide additional details on those opportunities later in the year.
As you can see we are extremely excited about the growth ahead at DiamondRock.
And we believe that our guidance today reflects that.
Our guidance for 2015 is a RevPAR growth of 6% to 7% adjusted corporate EBITDA of $262 million to $272 million and adjusted FFO per share in the range of $1 to $1.03.
For the full year we expect our portfolio hotel adjusted EBITDA margins to expand by approximately 100 basis points.
Our confidence in our guidance is enhanced by our strong results so far this year.
With January pro forma RevPAR growth of 8.8% for our entire portfolio.
So to wrap up the prepared remarks we will conclude by saying that DiamondRock is well positioned for growth in 2015 and should continue to benefit from strong execution on the asset management and capital investment fronts.
As always we are grateful for your interest in our company.
On that note we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Anthony Powell with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on New York and particularly international visitors.
And I know in like the Lexington Hotel you do get a lot of I guess European visitors on discount packages on the weekends.
What are you doing to maybe price that business out and how that business trend do you think at the hotel so far this year? Anthony this is Rob Tanenbaum.
15% of our business at the Lexington is international business.
And we've adjusted our pricing by removing some wholesale business that we had last year that we feel was not appropriate business for the asset.
And we continue to utilize our Marriott channels to further drive revenue sources available to us.
Research Division</strong> And on the acquisition this quarter very good pricing and very good use of proceeds from the equity sales.
How much competition are you seeing from these types of deals across your target markets and how much runway do you think you have in adding more deals in this type of price range? Anthony this is Mark.
So when we look at our pipeline as we sit here today in the environment it's obviously very competitive.
There's about 8 deals in our current pipeline about half of those are off market.
I think we will continue to face a very competitive environment.
Last year was competitive as well.
We were able to find a number of deals that we were very excited to be able to execute on.
So we're optimistic that this year given the similar constraints and competitive environment that we'll find a number of good deals.
Our next question comes from David Loeb with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Clearly New York is an extremely liquid market.
Have you thought about using the strength of that market to recycle capital basically to take advantage of that liquidity and sell 1 or more New York assets? Yes David this is Mark.
So obviously our recycling focus has been focused on selling slower growth non-core assets.
Everything's for sale at a proper price.
I think on the New York City assets we have received a number of inbound inquiries so it will depend on the pricing if we decide to do something with that.
But we generally asapolicy don't comment on dispositions or acquisitions until there's something under contract or it's closed.
Research Division</strong> Well then let me go to one that actually is closed.
The Shorebreak can you just give us a little rundown on whether that is fee simple versus condo versus leased? David it's Troy.
Yes that's fee simple.
The project was developed as a mixed-use project by CIM.
And it had a distinct retail component to it and then the hotel set essentially above the retail.
Those are all held together and then were bifurcated on this sale.
So we have a fee simple interest in the hotel.
I believe that just as a complication there is a 5% piece that city owns that was part of the original deal that we have a right to buy out in a short period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you're saying it's a condo interest but the condo association owns the land? That's -- it's a complicated explanation but that's essentially correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how about the parking there? Do you own that as well? Owned by the city.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're basically leasing the parking? We have an operating agreement with the city.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay okay.
And what else is going on on Huntington Beach? Is there any supply that's coming out of that market? There's a hotel down the beach that's under construction.
It's about a 200-room hotel.
Luxury hotel it's been in the works for 5 6 years.
It's got a big retail component there also.
And that's the only addition to supply on the market.
Research Division</strong> So in the release Troy you guys talked about barriers to entry.
Clearly stuff does get built there right? This one got built a few years ago the other one is on the way.
Are there others contemplated or in the pipeline or in the approval process? There aren't.
It actually took CIM -- they started this project in the late '90s.
And it took them 7 8 years to develop it.
So building on the California coastline heavily restricted very difficult to get entitled.
The project down the beach was similar.
So we don't see anything beyond that in the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
If I can keep going what are your thoughts -- I guess this is to whoever.
What are your thoughts about the Boston Westin expansion? I'm talking about the rooms tower not the ballroom.
Sure this is Mark.
So David as you know we paid for an option when we acquired the hotel a number of years ago.
We're currently evaluating that.
Obviously we were waiting for a decision to expand the convention center before we moved forward with that.
So we're in the I would say intensive investigation stage on that.
And we'd have more to talk about later this year on whether we do something there or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you evaluate that what's your thought about other potential supply in that market? Do you think that there's a chance that you actually preempt some of that or is it just going to come anyway? Well there's obviously sense of conversations going on with the Convention Center Bureau with some of the local entities there.
Certainly if we did the expansion there is a chance that that may have a chilling effect on the new convention center hotel but that's yet to be determined.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Sean one for you probably an easy one.
When you talked about the margin expansion expectations what impact are property taxes in IMF increases having on your assumptions for those margins? Sure David.
The property taxes for 2015 are going to have a 50-basis-point impact on margin expansion.
As you recall from 2014 we essentially had flat property taxes year-over-year because of a couple of successful wins the biggest ones being in Vail and the D.C.
Westin.
So that's about a 50-basis-point impact on 2015 taxes.
On the IMF we actually expect IMF to be relatively flat year-over-year.
And so it's actually -- there'll be no impact on margins because of IMF year-over-year.
We have 10 hotels in IMF in 2014 we expect to have 9 hotels in IMF in 2015.
Our next question comes from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just wanted to follow up on the -- one of the acquisition questions.
Just curious what markets are you guys looking at today given you sort of filled some of the holes you talked about last year in sort of the South Florida markets and along the West Coast? Yes this is Mark.
So if we look at our priority list which is of the 8 hotels I would say are the ones that were most focused on now they're all West Coast.
They go really from Portland down to San Diego and a number of markets in between.
So we're trying to find places where there may be some strategic advantage in the location.
Huntington Beach for instance where we're not facing as intense competition but there's excellent dynamics for growth and high barriers-to-entry.
So we're looking to find a way to create value for our shareholders that isn't all in the pack if you will.
Research Division</strong> And then separately on margin expansion.
You guys have kind of talked about 360 basis points of upside versus the prior peak.
If I recall correctly a big portion of that's at the Lexington it seems like you guys are expecting good growth there.
I guess I would've expected a little bit of greater upside than 100 basis points assumed in guidance.
So is there anything else beside the property taxes that's holding that back? Or do you expect it to be drawn out? Yes Austin.
This is Sean.
There's a couple of other things that are impacting the margin expansion.
The change in the uniform system of accounts where effectively we have to gross up revenue on banquet sales impacts margin expansion by about 15 basis points year-over-year.
In addition there was a couple of contract increase in both management and franchise fees across our portfolio which impacted margin expansion in '15 by about 10 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Are you still comfortable with I guess achieving that 360 basis points of upside I think you said it's $4 million to $8 million of EBITDA? We are.
As of year-end 2014 because we outperformed our expectations we're about 325 basis points behind prior peak as of year end.
And so we remain confident that that's a bogey that we expect to achieve over the next 2 to 3 years.
Our next question comes from Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to understand your RevPAR guidance a bit better.
So you guided 6% to 7% RevPAR growth for 2015 but January is trending up 8.8% despite weaker New York trends.
So what's driving the deceleration? And then also what are you factoring in for overall U.S.
industry RevPAR growth for 2015? Tom this is Mark.
So the 8.8% obviously January is one of our lowest in terms of nominal dollars it's a small month.
So the fact that that's outperforming doesn't necessarily carry the weight we expected.
The first quarter would be roughly in line with our full year guidance.
Sorry what was your follow-up question to that? Research Division</strong> Well it was just -- yes I mean -- it was -- so when I look at I guess GR and PKF and PwC forecast for the year it's anywhere from 6.4% to 7.6%.
So which one of those are you factoring in to get to your guidance? Well we look across the industry.
It's about 5% to 7% but obviously we look more market-to-market to determine what our guidance is.
So we take a market up look if you will versus just the national average.
But if I had to look at national average probably 5% to 7% is the right baseline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 questions on the Shorebreak.
I didn't hear you guys say what the margins are in the property today.
So just wondering where those are and maybe discuss a little bit the decision of bringing in Kimpton? How long is the management contract the decision around it and everything? Sure.
So I'll start with Kimpton.
So obviously we try to marry the right manager for each individual asset.
Kimpton has a very strong presence in Southern California all of California.
But this was a great strategic location given where their other hotels are located.
We also thought they could do some things with the -- on the revenue side with their marketing capabilities that weren't currently being done at the hotel.
We asked to sell a number of opportunities that they were willing to do such as adding a resort fee to enhance our performance at that hotel.
So those are significant on the I would say the top line.
On the bottom line there's a number of efficiencies given their distribution that we want to utilize.
So those were really the big drivers for bringing in Kimpton.
We really think they're the right manager for this particular asset.
On margins...
Tom this is Rob.
EBITDA margin is a little bit south of 28% for 2014 and we expect that to go to lag a little over 30% as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Actually I just got a last-minute deal e-mail from Kimpton with Shorebreak on it so showing their marketing expertise already.
That's great.
I'm glad they're excited about it.
Our next question comes from Ryan Meliker with MLV &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of I guess follow-ups.
First of all with regards to the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square any changes to the $11 million EBITDA expectation for 2015 that you had guided to prior? And if not any more or any stronger or weaker conviction in that number now? Brian this is Mark.
The hotel finished up very strong in the fourth quarter.
We feel very good about our forecast for 2015 at the hotel.
It's really done -- it's done terrific right out of the gates.
And so we expect given the demand that existed at that location we feel very good about that forecast.
Research Division</strong> Better than you did 3 months ago or 4 months ago before it opened or about the same? I'd say we feel that it's the right number.
Our confidence level is even higher today than it was a couple months ago.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I was hoping you guys could just give us some color on was -- you mentioned that you're kind of grouping down I guess for 2015 which probably makes sense given where occupancy levels are and with the focus on pushing rate.
I'm hoping you can kind of provide some color on where your group pace is today versus last year and how much of that is driven by rate? Sure.
Ryan it's Rob again.
Our group pace is down 1.9%.
And it's driven by -- the rate is up 1.7% with room nights down 3.5%.
Ryan I would just add strategically what we're trying to do there's a couple of big drivers to individual hotels where we're trying to take out the lower rated group and put in the difference between the lot of the business transient rate.
Or the leisure transients depending on which hotel there seems to be a real opportunity.
And given where occupancy levels are in the marketplace we are -- we have strategically taken some mix risk if you will because we think the upside's there.
And Ryan one follow-up this is Sean.
I think for the full year we expect group to go up about 4% for the entire year basically that's the midpoint of our guidance.
And essentially all of that is going to be through rate gains on a flat number of rooms for the full year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
It makes sense.
And I understand the concept of kind of trading up the transient that's a little bit of mixed shift.
Also just as a comment I really appreciated all the color on New York.
I think that's really helpful.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Ian Weissman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Chris for Ian.
It looks like your guidance of about $85 million in capital improvement in 2015 and appreciate the color on the Boston Downtown Hilton but just wondering if you could talk about the total displacement for the portfolio of projects under renovation? Maybe how that distribution will be or how that displacement will be distributed throughout the year? And then what kind of return do you think you can get on that total CapEx spend? Yes.
Chris this is Mark.
So we do -- $85 million is our guidance for capital spend.
It's obviously a big portfolio.
So spreading that across there isn't any project that's going on that we expect to have a material impact on our operations in 2015.
The Hilton in Boston we are adding 41 keys but that's getting done during the seasonally slow winter.
And whatever impact we have there we expect to gain a little bit later in the year but it shouldn't materially alter any of the numbers.
As far as the return we really put it into different buckets.
As Sean mentioned earlier we expect a significant return on the $9 million we invested in the Hilton Boston.
Various other projects it depends on what the -- whether it's an ROI project whether it's a rooms refresh or what the strategic reposition of the hotel is.
There's not one particular number that we have for the whole $85 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- that's very helpful.
Going back to your 2015 acquisition pipeline I guess what are your thoughts on how you're likely to fund those acquisitions given where all the prices are at today? Whether that would be dispositions property level of debt or maybe more ATM offerings? Yes as we sit here today as we mentioned in the prepared remarks we have over $200 million of investment capacity with the balance sheet that we have.
So that obviously is the primary driver.
We have cash and we'll have a combination from a number of property level refinancings that are going to occur during 2015.
So we think we're very well positioned for that amount of acquisitions.
Our next question comes from Patrick Scholes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question here on your guidance.
You have a -- in the EBITDA guidance income tax expense of $8 million to $12.5 million.
Just remind me again what that is and when do you expect that to hit the income statement? Sure Patrick.
That is income tax expense on our taxable REIT subsidiary.
And we expect that to be more back end loaded.
During the first quarter of the year we tend to record an income tax benefit because of the seasonality of our portfolio.
And then as the quarters go on you'd expect higher income tax expense.
If you look at our -- where our portfolio income tax expense has been for 2014 directionally that's a fair proxy for where you would expect it would be for 2015.
Our next question comes from Chris Woronka from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jumped on a little late I apologize if you already covered it.
But on the acquisition outlook Fort Lauderdale was a new market for you guys it's somewhere we haven't seen any of the other REITs yet.
Given kind of where prices are generally do think it's more likely that you'll look into some of these -- just other markets not saying they're better or worse than the big 5 or 10 markets but do you think there's more opportunities in some of these markets where we haven't seen you guys or some of your peers own before? Chris this is Mark.
So Fort Lauderdale we really liked the economics and what's going on with the demand trends here.
We thought we could buy much smarter than we could buy in Miami with similar characteristics in growth over extended periods of time.
So we thought that was a better way to allocate our capital for our investors.
On that deal as we mentioned in our prepared remarks we're about $1 million ahead of our original underwriting and that's probably 11.5x the EBITDA multiple on our acquisition there which is I think a terrific result in this competitive environment.
As we look towards our pipeline it's really West Coast oriented.
We are looking -- it is Portland it is San Francisco it is West L.A.
We will look within those submarkets to try to find if there are strategic places we could be that are a little different than where everyone else is looking.
I think Huntington Beach is a good example of West Coast exposure that's a little different from what other people are chasing and we think has just excellent characteristic growth potential.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just a quick one for Sean.
How much variability do you think property taxes might have on '15 relative guidance or where are you guys kind of on appeals versus what you've realized? Just trying to get a sense for the model how to think about that.
Sure Chris.
There's always variability as you know in property taxes in a sense that we don't record any appeal wins until we actually win them.
We have about 1/3 of our property taxes under appeal for 2015.
We're optimistic and hopeful that we'll be successful there but we won't bake out any of the numbers until we get resolution.
Property taxes year-over-year are up excluding Time Square which is an obvious noncomp about 13% year-over-year.
And that's coming off a very favorable 2014 where we had a handful of property tax wins where our taxes were flat year-over-year.
And so some of that is just catch up.
But we expect the big driver there Chicago has a reassessment.
And so we expect property taxes to be up in Chicago as well as our Denver assets our big drivers of our 2015 increase.
Our next question comes from Nikhil Bhalla of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Question on Chelsea Hilton Garden Inn.
Why were the margins down 950 basis points? I'm sorry if you had touched on this before.
No no problem.
The hotel converted to union earlier this year so that's impacted the increased union costs.
It's obviously a small hotel and the numbers were material on a relatively small basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you can address Vail Marriott as well and the Minneapolis Hilton? Sure.
I'll take the Vail then I'll turn it over to Rob for the Minneapolis.
The Vail was impacted by a change in the Marriott Rewards redemption policy which lowered rooms revenue about $1 million which without that RevPAR it would've been flat to maybe slightly positive year-over-year.
But that was unique to a change in policy.
Rob? Certainly.
Nikhil on Minneapolis we had a late group cancellation worth over $0.5 million in the fourth quarter.
That obviously impacted the margins as well as affirm average [ph] contribution.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the reward points this is -- that was very specific to the Vail Marriott right? I mean that's not something that's impacting systemwide across Marriott vendor properties? So to be more specific they changed the rules in August of this year effective immediately.
As I understand it there were 4 hotels impacted by that -- significantly impacted by that rule change.
So that's obviously a small portion of their whole system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just diving a little bit deeper on that Mark.
Does that mean that it's become harder for people to redeem their points now the threshold has been raised? No so it's -- the way the rule was changed is that they only allow you to take up to 50 -- the rate of 50% of the rooms have to be at market and not redemption rules.
So it's really formulaic on the owners' part it doesn't affect the people that are redeeming the points.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Another question on what you're assuming from the Shorebreak Hotel in terms of EBITDA for full year 2015 in your outlook? Sure.
We're expecting it to be a 12.8x multiple on '15 which is EBITDA of a little over $4 million -- sorry $4.6 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
$4.6 million.
Okay so that was my math too.
Okay.
And final question on G&amp;A it looks at the high-end the G&amp;A went up by about 8% year-over-year.
What may be some of the drivers of that? Sure.
The primary driver of the G&amp;A increase is we had a credit-to-legal expenses in 2014 in conjunction with our settlement of the Boston Westin litigation which impacted -- positively impacted 2014 by about $1.5 million.
And that really drives the year-over-year change.
In addition there was incremental personnel changes but that was much less impactful than the credit recorded in 2014.
We have no further questions.
I would now turn the call back over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for any closing remarks.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Denise.
To everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you with our first quarter results.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 DiamondRock Hospitality Company Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now turn the conference over to Mr.
Brett Stewart Vice President Strategy and Capital Markets.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call and Webcast.
Before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Law and may not be historical fact.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
In addition as management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliations to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
With me on today’s call Mark Brugger our Chief Executive Officer Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Chief Investment Officer.
This morning Mark will provide a brief overview of our first quarter results and transaction activities as well as provide an update on the company’s outlook for the rest of 2015.
Sean will then provide greater detail on our first quarter performance and discuss our capital markets activities.
Following their remarks we will open the line for question.
With that I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Brett.
Let me start by saying that we are very pleased with our results in this quarter and are encouraged by the continued strength of underlying lodging fundamentals.
Demand continues to significantly outpace new lodging supply.
Industry revPAR growth was primarily driven by rate increases as operators are able to raise rates and improve profitability.
We expect the trend to continue throughout this year and beyond.
Turning now to our portfolio we had an excellent quarter and set a new Q1 record for DiamondRock both in terms of revPAR and margins.
Our portfolio revPAR grew almost 8% and was driven primarily by a 4.3% increase in average daily rate.
Moreover asset management initiatives continue to take hold and pro forma hotel adjusted EBITDA margins expanded by 140 basis points.
11 of our hotels generated double-digit revPAR growth almost half of which were 20%.
12 hotels also grew hotel adjusted EBITDA margins by more than 200 basis points during the quarter.
Additionally despite a challenging first quarter in New York our New York City assets had various unique catalysts that allowed them to outperform the Manhattan market by approximately 400 basis points which was consistent with our expectations going into the year and a trend we expect to continue throughout 2015.
Our asset management program continued to shine this quarter as the team found opportunities to both enhance hotel revenue management strategies and to control expenses across the portfolio.
This adds a meaningful driver to our organic growth going forward.
One example of the tremendous success our team has had is at the Westin Fort Lauderdale Beach Resort a premier beachfront asset we acquired in late2014.
Implementing our best practices we have successfully streamlined the hotel's labor model eliminating more than 30 managerial positions for $1.5 million in annual savings.
Successfully reconcepting the hotel's main restaurant and reducing food cost collectively saved us another $0.5 million annually.
In total through these initiatives and others this year alone we expect our asset management team to be able to extract approximately $3 million of cost savings at this hotel and expand profit margins by over 1000 basis points.
The hotel is tracking ahead of our initial underwriting and our purchase price now represents well over an 8% cap rate on forecasted 2015 NOI.
Another big focus for the team is on identifying high return on investment opportunities to create shareholder value at our existing assets.
One of the most significantly projects this year was the opportunity to create 41 incremental guest rooms at the Boston Hilton.
In the process we were able to fully renovate approximately 90 guest rooms at the Boston Hilton which are now substantially complete.
These 90 guest rooms sell for a $30 to $50 premium as a premium room type.
Of course because we added rooms our gross debts are skewed.
The new rooms impacted first-quarter portfolio margins by approximately 12 basis points and will impact full-year portfolio revPAR by approximately 20 basis points due to that higher room count.
Overall this is exactly the type of low-risk minimal disruption project that we find most attractive to drive value.
We are currently pursuing more ROI opportunities in the portfolio to add rooms including adding eight incremental rooms at our New York City Courtyards and four rooms at the DC Westin.
In Chicago we completed rooms renovation during the seasonally slow winter of the top five floors with 175 guest rooms plus all 25 suites.
We are now charging a $35 premium for these upgrade rooms.
Additionally we were able to add two new keys during the process and convert lobby space into a new Marriott prototype for a FMB on-demand outlet that will allow us to provide modified room service and significantly reduce annual room service costs.
We will methodically renovate the balance of the rooms over the next several years during the winters and we don't anticipate any material disruption.
Also we negotiated a structure whereby Marriott agreed to participate in the cost of the renovation through permanent fee reductions.
For 2015 we were able to reduce management fees by approximately $1.8 million.
We appreciate their spirit of partnership.
Also in Chicago we previously announced that were reviewing the brand and management options for the Conrad Chicago.
We are excited to announce that we have concluded that review and that the Conrad Chicago will be converted later this year to be part of Starwood's Luxury Collection.
This will be started with only luxury brand representation in the Chicago market and we find that a pretty compelling opportunity for us.
The hotel will be operated by a third-party manager subject to a franchise agreement.
We look forward to sharing more details about our plans for this hotel in the near future as we complete the theming and capital repositioning plan for the hotel.
There are numerous other smaller ROI projects that are underway or under evaluation in our portfolio.
One in particular is at the Lexington Hotel where we are evaluating three separate retail conversion/retenant opportunities to create additional value.
As you can see we really like to exploit opportunities within our existing portfolio.
Turning now to our investment activities during the quarter we recently acquired the Shorebreak Hotel a lifestyle hotel located beachfront in Southern California.
Upon acquisition we brought in Kimpton as the new operator.
We paid $58.5 million for the hotel and the hotel is forecasting to run modestly ahead of our underwriting at a 12.4 times multiple on currently forecasted 2015 EBITDA.
That's about a half a turn better than underwriting.
This acquisition is a great example of the kinds of deals that we are targeting.
It's accretive it has asset management upside through an operator change it's located in an attractive West Coast market and it enhances our brand and geographic diversity.
The team will continue to focus on these kinds of deals going forward.
Before I turn to our updated outlook for2015 Sean will discuss our first-quarter results in more detail.
Sean.
Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our first-quarter results please note that our reported revPAR and margin data are presented on a pro forma basis to include the Shorebreak Hotel as if it was owned for all periods presented and exclude the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central since it was not opened during the comparable period of 2014.
Let me start by reiterating Mark's comments that the first quarter was another outstanding quarter for DiamondRock.
Our pro forma revPAR grew 7.9% which significantly exceeded industry upper upscale revPAR growth of 6%.
The top-line outperformance by our ability to increase average rate 4.3% couple with an incremental 2.5 percentage points in occupancy.
Our portfolio also generated strong hotel adjusted EBITDA margin growth of 140 basis points during the quarter.
Our margins were positively impacted by ongoing asset management initiatives such as implementing resort fees in several markets and cost control initiatives across the portfolio.
For example we benefited from recent cost-containment initiatives at the Fort Lauderdale Westin where profit margin grew an impressive 627 basis points.
The company reported adjusted EBITDA of $48.5 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.19.
Overall our portfolio benefited from strength in both the business and leisure transient segments as revenues for these combined segments grew 10.3% during the quarter.
Our group business also performed well during the quarter.
Group revenues grew 6.6% driven by a 3.3% increase in rate and a 3.2% increase in group room nights.
Our group segment was led by the Boston Westin the Minneapolis Hilton and the San Diego Westin where group revenues grew 29% 40% and 35% respectively.
Recent positive trends in short-term booking activity continued this quarter with our portfolio benefiting from approximately 60% in in the quarter for the quarter compared to the prior year.
Strength in short-term bookings was most notable at the Boston Westin and Fort Lauderdale Westin.
Additionally the group segment contributed to a 7.9% increase in quarterly banquet and catering revenues which contributed to the 119 basis points of food and beverage margin expansion.
Now let me spend a few minutes highlighting some truly exceptional individual hotel achievements.
The repositioned Washington DC Westin gained traction in all segments during the quarter achieving approximately 35% revPAR growth.
We expect the hotel to continue gaining market share and outperforming the Washington DC market.
The Boston Westin benefited from both increased BCEC activity and strong in-house group.
The BCEC hosted two additional events compared to last year and the hotel leveraged its new meeting space to book multiple in-house groups.
The San Diego Westin had an outstanding over 13% revPAR growth and almost 500 basis points of margin expansion.
The hotel group grew revenues over 34% and continues benefit from its recent renovation and repositioning.
The Minneapolis Hilton benefited from several large groups during the quarter.
The strong group production allowed the hotel to increase revPAR over 25% during the quarter.
The Orlando Airport Marriott outperformed during the quarter with revPAR growth close to 15%.
The hotel benefited from group business with strong F&amp;B spend during the quarter.
As a result group spend at the hotel more than doubled and F&amp;B margins expanded over 1000 basis points.
Finally the Hotel Rex in San Francisco had another great quarter with revPAR growth of 24% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 627 basis points.
We are very bullish on the future of this hotel which is expected to generate an attractive NOI yield of over 8.5% during 2015.
Partially offsetting the positive trends in the quarter was the challenging operating environment in New York City and expected displacement from the ROI project at the Boston Hilton.
We remain confident in the positioning of our New York portfolio which outperformed market revPAR growth by approximately 400 basis points.
Excluding the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square our New York portfolio's revPAR contraction was less than 1% which resulted in market share gain of 5.5 percentage points led by 14 percentage point again at the Lexington Hotel.
In addition we substantially completed the project at the Boston Hilton to renovate approximately 90 rooms including creating 41 new rooms while the renovation disruption was not significant at DiamondRock and was in line with our expectations it did reduce our consolidated revPAR growth by approximately 50 basis points.
This is a great project for the company and is expected to generate an IR of approximately 20% and add over $50 million to the hotel’s net asset value.
Before turning the call back over to Mark I would like to touch on our balance sheet which we believe is among the best in the industry.
Being prudence towards our investors' capital has been a cornerstone of DiamondRock strategy since we founded Company.
We have over a decade-long track record of consistently maintaining a straightforward and low-risk balance sheet that has essentially no corporate debt.
This discipline has allowed us to return to over $0.5 billion in cash dividends to our shareholders since our IPO including the recent 22% increase to our 2015 dividends.
Today we continued to maintain ample liquidity and expect to end the year with over $140 million of unrestricted cash and an undrawn corporate revolver.
Based on our conservative leverage targets we still have approximately $200 million of investment capacity.
Additionally we expect to reduce our annual interest cost by several million dollars through proactively refinancing our near-term debt maturities which bear interest at an average rate of approximately 6%.
We have a focused plan to efficiently reduce borrowing costs extend and stagger the maturity schedule and expand our pool of unencumbered hotels.
The current status of recent financing efforts are as follows.
We recently refinanced the $52.6 million loan secured by the Renaissance Worthington which bore interest at 5.4% with a new $85 million 10 year mortgage bearing interest at a fixed rate of 3.66%.
The loan proceeds exceed our total investment in the hotel.
We will use the excess proceeds from the Worthington refinancing towards the repayment of the $56.3 million loan secured by the Frenchman's Reef Marriott.
This transaction which is expected to close this month will increase our unencumbered pool of hotels to 16 with an aggregated cost basis of $1.6 billion.
We are also evaluating refinancing the JW Marriott Cherry Creek which is expected to close near the end of the second quarter.
The existing loan has an outstanding principal balance of approximately $38 million and bears interest at 6.5% which is significantly above current market.
We expect to significantly increase proceeds and decreased our borrowing costs with this refinancing.
We have made great progress in our refinancing initiatives.
Our full-year 2015 guidance reflects over $5.5 million in lower interest expense compared to 2014.
In addition we have an action plan to refinance our remaining debt maturities over the next 12 months.
The successful execution of this action plan is expected to reduce 2016 interest expense by an additional $8 million which represents $0.04 of incremental FFO per share.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
With this strong first quarter at DiamondRock and we expect that trend to continue throughout the year.
There are a number of unique growth catalysts that we expect to enhance our performance.
I will just mention the four most significant drivers.
One our recent acquisitions have outsized growth opportunities from asset initiatives particularly at the Westin Fort Lauderdale Beach Resort and the Shorebreak Kimpton Hotel.
Two upside from our intense asset management initiatives to drive profit margins and mine ROI opportunities such as the building of a new tent and new ballroom at the Westin Waterfront and the addition of keys at hotels like the Boston Hilton.
Three lower interest rates or near-term refinancing including the recently refinanced Worthington could result in $8 million to $12 million in interest savings annually starting next year.
And four external growth from carefully deploying our existing investment capacity could add $16 million of annualized EBITDA.
Today we updated our full-year guidance our new 2015 guidance is for revPAR growth of 6% to 7% adjusted corporate EBITDA of $264 million to $274 million and adjusted FFO per share in the range of a $1 to $1.02.
The new EBITDA and FFO guidance represents an increase from our prior guidance.
I would note that the guidance for income tax expense has increased due to outperformance of our hotels and is expected to increase disproportionate to EBITDA outperformance because of the REIT structure tenant leases.
Ironically the outperformance to underwriting at the Fort Lauderdale hotel is a culprit here.
However the incremental income tax is not expected to have a cash impact as the Company has accumulated net operating loss credits as an offset in 2015.
I would like to also provide a brief update on our outlook on the New York City market.
This market remains challenging but we continue to expect our portfolio to significantly outperform the broader market for 2015 by approximately 500basis points.
The largest driver of outperformance will come from the Lexington Hotel Hotel which represents over 40% of our investment in New York and continues to ramp from its renovation and rebranding.
The Lexington Hotel as Sean mentioned gained almost14 points in the first quarter versus its competitive set and delivered 6% revPAR growth.
We also own the newly built and very successful Hilton Garden Inn Times Square which represents another 20% of our New York investment although it is non-comp until its first anniversary in the fourth quarter.
Remarkably the hotel had 63 sellout nights in the first quarter.
In fact we sold the last few room available this week at a rate of $999 based on compression and finished the last couple days with average rates in excess of $400.
This new hotel is tracking strong towards $11 million in EBITDA in 2015 which is a $6 million increase from last year.
The Hilton Garden Inn Chelsea did underperform in the quarter and lost 11 points of market share.
Fortunately that hotel represents less than 9% of our investment in New York.
Part of the challenge there has been getting the right approach to revenue management and as a result we have terminated the current manager and will bring in a new manager in June to help right the ship and regain that lost market share.
This hotel represents an opportunity for us going forward.
We would also like to note that revPAR growth for our New York City portfolio accelerated to 4.8% growth in March an encouraging sign as we move further into the year.
Before I open up for questions let me provide a quick update on our investment pipeline.
As previously outlined we remain committed to prudently deploying our capital into acquisitions that meet our strict investment criteria and create near-term value for our shareholders.
We are actively evaluating opportunities though we remain disciplined when it comes to both price and size.
We have had great success in our recent acquisitions of the Shorebreak the Westin Fort Lauderdale and the Inn at Key West.
The team continues to work the pipeline.
We remain disciplined with our remaining $200 million of dry powder.
The pipeline today has several interesting opportunities located in strategic West coast markets Boston and South Florida.
However there is no assurance we will get any of these assets but we are committed to working hard and being opportunistic.
With that I would like to sum up by saying that we feel very good about our portfolio our capital allocation abilities and the momentum of our asset management initiatives.
We are confident that all of these will allow us to continue superior value for our shareholders throughout the lodging cycle.
Our team would now be happy to answer any questions that you have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Smedes Rose withCiti.
Please proceed.
Hi this is Archana for Smedes.
I was hoping you'd be able to comment little more on New York.
Maybe give us some idea of like what you’re seeing in terms of the impact of lower international demand versus like the higher supply.
And maybe if you’re seeing any nontraditional lodging supply coming in that’s affecting the current hotels? Okay.
So yes the first quarter is the lowest demand quarter in New York City.
So it's most susceptible to supply.
Clearly there is an impact from supply that we’re facing in the first quarter.
On international our portfolio does less than 15% international we are tracking it but some of the data comes after takes couple of months to see some of that data we are not seeing a significant drop off in international demand at our hotels but there is likely a lag effect and we would anticipate that that would affect the summer - lower end towards travel international demand.
So I note on international for us Great Britain is our top account which is less susceptible to that change Canada would be top three and then within our top five you also have Brazil and some of the other countries.
So it’s a mixed bag I would say we are not seeing impact yet but it would be reasonable that just had a lag effect on that.
On your question about nontraditional sources like Airbnb it's very difficult to get good data on that we’re not hearing a lot of anecdotal evidence that that’s impacting us but I will say where we’re seeing in our portfolio particularly is the midweek business transient.
We're seeing very good growth at our properties.
We’re actually experiencing good growth on Saturday nights but the Fridays and Sundays have been challenging and that maybe due to that shadow inventory.
Okay that's helpful.
And you spoke a little bit about like going through the Chicago Marriott renovation.
If you could comment to how you are seeing the citywide -- city convention -- citywide convention calendar pan out for the next for this year and for the next and how the renovations are going to be planned against that what sort of disruption are we seeing? And do you feel like we'd been losing out a little bit on the fact that the renovations may be against a strong citywide convention calendar year? So on convention calendars this year is a good year in Chicago Q1 had two more group so this is a favourable commencing year next year the first quarter is more challenging down in Citywide which actually provides an opportunity on the renovation they have even less disruption.
Although we don’t it is a big hotel we are moving through the rooms over several years we don’t anticipate any material disruption from the rooms redo.
The convention calendar in 2016 improves after the first quarter and actually strengthens as the year moves on.
So I think we’re well positioned to the advantage of having a big hotel and a seasonal market like Chicago is they have the ability to do rooms renovations during seasonally slow times what minimal disruption.
Okay that's helpful.
And just one last one for me.
In terms of the Conrad now joining like the Luxury Collection is there some sort of like if the Conrad doesn't meet any - like the minimum standards if there's a sort of true up or a guarantee that Starwood would kind of have to -- can kind of step in for? I’m not sure I understand the question so Conrad’s contract expires this year and they will be leaving the hotel.
The Luxury Collection and our third-party manager will be taking over in the fourth quarter we’re very excited to have Luxury Collection it’s only Luxury product for Starwood Starwood has underrepresented the Chicago marketplace and so we think that’s a huge strategic advantage to have our hotel position that way.
And so what we’re excited about that there is key money involved from Starwood in this transaction but there is no guarantees from Hilton or something like that that is getting replaced as part of this transaction.
Okay got it.
Great.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning it's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just wanted to touch on guidance for a minute.
Last quarter you guys had said that you thought 1Q would come in within the range for the full year that’s 67%.
Clearly you guys exceeded the high end of that range so just curious on your thoughts on maintaining RevPAR guidance for the full year.
Anything that you’re seeing that gives you guys pause I guess to increase that full-year number? Yes obviously we increased the EBITDA and FFO guidance for the year on RevPAR I think it is important to note that the first quarter is a relatively small - mathematically smaller quarter for us.
So the fact that it’s a little higher RevPAR is necessarily going to move the full year.
Fair enough.
And then on in-the-quarter for-the-quarter are you guys seeing any continued strength into 2Q that you saw in 1Q? Yes Austin it's Rob Tanenbaum.
How are you this morning? Good thanks.
We’re seeing quite little continued growth in the quarter for the quarter as we saw in Q1 in our booking pace we are seeing incredible short term business which is allowing our food and beverage contribution to grow as well.
So we feel confident in our bookings just to give you an example we’re seeing growth in our Conrad Hotel.
We’ve hired sales team in house and we’re seeing new bookings coming from that.
In the Chicago Marriott we booked 16 000 rooms in the year - for the year and as that compares to 9000 same time last year.
So we’re really pleased to see how the group booking pace is improving.
Thanks for the detail.
And then just back to the Conrad I was just curious what sort of the opportunity that you see there.
And sort of how does that hotel stack up currently versus its comp set? Yes so we think that the hotel is underperformed its potential it’s a terrific hotel and arguably one of the best locations in Chicago we’ve never been able to capture a proper marketplace there is currently over $100 rate differential with the log off down the street we think there is a ability to capture not all of that but a large portion of that and so we think that there is significant rate outside potential from the brand conversion.
I think it’s important to note Starwood has no other Luxury product at all in the Chicago market.
So for them there is a lot of Starwood customers that would look for that and don’t have that alternative now.
So we think it will really - it’s a really effective brand for that hotel and we think there is a tremendous amount of potential there.
Anything particular on the margin side in terms of upside that you see? And then is there really any risk I guess through this transition period until we get to the new operator in place to margins? Yes I will wrap upon some of that.
But when currently the disruption you’re seeing that it underperformed a little bit in Q1 clearly it will we now put the sales team and our property out of the Hilton system so we have much more control over the property.
There shouldn’t be material renovation disruption as we move into this winter with the Phase 1 of the conversion.
So we don’t anticipate disruption there and we think effectively switching the brands in the fourth quarter but there might be some noise we think it will be pretty smooth.
As far as the margin upside I will let Rob jump in on that.
Certainly so from a rate perspective with the conversion in Q4 allows us to go into the special corporate account season being marketed as a Luxury Collection hotel.
It opens up new opportunities for us we have a team in place that is being maintained or General Manager Director of Sales and Director of Finance are all relatively new to the Property and they’ve een focused on this transition.
So we don’t see any impact on that from an operational standpoint.
But we see efficiencies throughout our food and beverage as well as garnering new banquet opportunities to further drive our group rates.
Austin this is Sean.
On our underwriting we underwrote comparable margins but the real upside potential here is we are capturing incremental rate which we think will flow nicely to the bottom line but on a nominal margin perspective we didn’t underwrite significant margin expansion as part of the conversion.
It’s really capturing that higher rated customer out of the Starwood system that we weren’t hoping to capture before and that is something that we’ve been focused over the past years reducing our cost there and the team has done a great job in terms of margin expansion at hotel.
Great.
Thanks for the detail.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Have you thought any more about the Boston Westin land option next to the hotel? And what re your thoughts there in potentially proceeding with that option? It is great question so the option expires next year so we are currently as you may as you know that whole waterfront district has really exploded.
And the ability you can see it in our numbers -- the ability to push rate in the transient and the group demand in that waterfront district has increased slightly ahead of our expectation.
So the viability of that has dramatically increased.
Additionally as you know the convention centers going to double hopefully here in the next three years.
So we’re very optimistic on the parcel but we are spending now we did an RFP; we have a developer we're working with.
We're trying to make sure that we have a great handle in the cost the way we’ve structured the deal and the pro forma which were in the midst of now and we would hope to update you next call with where we are on that expansion opportunity.
All right great.
And just kind of a general industry question.
But as an owner of hotels with a lot of different brands what's your view on potential brand M&amp;A in the space? There's been a lot of chatter obviously about various companies exploring alternatives.
And are you in favor opposed what is your general outlook there? I would say we have no particular insight into brand consolidation.
As an owner it is better to have more options and more companies than less options and less companies as we move - as we consider alternative brands competitions good for owners.
But we have no particular insights on M&amp;A or what might occur.
Right okay.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you Anthony.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Hightower with Evercore.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Rich.
So a couple of questions here.
The first one is a point of clarification Mark.
I think you mentioned in the prepared remarks there was an external growth opportunity that could add $16 million of annualized EBITDA.
I just want to be clear is that within the existing portfolio or does that imply an acquisition opportunity that generates that? By external so what we’ve said in our prepared remarks is that we have $200 million or so investment capacity.
So if we deployed that we ballpark $60 million of incremental EBITDA from deploying that dry powder.
Okay.
So I guess that's an 8% EBITDA yield.
I mean are opportunities like that still prevalent at this stage? Well we’ve done three deals in the last six to nine months that are generating returns like that.
It depends it depends on what market what the growth characteristics are and a couple of our recent deals have exceeded our expectations.
So I don’t know that will be exactly be a number but I think that’s a reasonable approximation.
Okay.
Thanks for the clarity there.
And then actually I thought you had an interesting comment to one of the other questions about shadow inventory in New York and seeing it on some of those shoulder nights I guess on Fridays and Sundays.
Are you able to quantify the occupancy impact you're seeing on those nights of the week that you think is related to Airbnb? Yes there is no data that we could quantify Rich.
So we look - we’re seeing where our strength is what the different customer segments and obviously we have the data on where the strength is and where the challenges are and so we are theorizing based on the data set that we have in front of us what the culprits are.
So one theory is that it is probably more of an impact on Fridays and Sundays.
I think Airbnb and so the shadow inventory is not competitive for the core business transient or special corporate.
But it would make sense on some of the leisure that it would have more of an impact.
But there is no great data to look at that could confirm that.
Okay thanks Mark.
That's helpful.
And then one last question.
I know you guys have mentioned in the past you've only got maybe one or two what you would consider to be non-core assets that could be potential sale candidates.
Would the Hilton Garden Inn Chelsea potentially fall into that category? Or is that a situation where you want to bring in the new revenue manager and see what the asset can really do before potentially marketing it for sale? Yes I think at this point we think there is lost market share we think that there is a real ability to potentially turn it around get to higher NOI before we talk about monetizing.
But they’re out of our New York assets that would be the one that would be most likely be monetized.
Okay.
That's it for me.
Thanks Mark.
Got it.
Your next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelly with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
I just wanted to follow-up maybe on the Conrad commentary a little bit.
You guys gave some good color on the opportunity but Mark I think you mentioned how brand competition is good and we're seeing a lot of new announcements in these sort of soft brands or collection brands.
So I'm curious for your thoughts in terms of -- did you look at some of these kind of new concepts out there? And how competitive are some of those and just how do you look at kind of the different opportunities out there right now? It’s a great question so we looked at every available brand or some that are conflicted but there are number of new brand opportunities.
But we saw what is so compelling about Luxury Collection at the end of the day was the underrepresentation of Starwood generally in the Chicago market but also the fact that we can move into this Luxury segment versus just a nice four star segment.
The Starwood has no Luxury product no St.
Regis and they don’t want to put a Luxury Hotel Starwood with a franchise in place at the top MSA it just seem like there is a real opportunity to drive rate and capture that high end Starwood customer within Chicago.
And do the soft brands have - I mean how do some of the I guess either ownership restrictions or I guess geographic restrictions apply to the soft brands? Do those - I mean do you get -- will this preclude Starwood from doing another big Luxury asset in Chicago? Just generically I mean for a conference call how does that sort of work? I would say the trade area restrictions that you get with a soft brand are the same market that you would get with a traditional brand.
So if we are doing a Hilton or we were doing a Curio we would ask for the same territory and the same length of restriction on that same brand or that same soft brand regardless of whether a soft brand or a traditional brand.
Got it.
But it does not necessarily preclude a different brand within the same -- a different brand within I guess the same family like W or Luxury or St.
Regis wouldn't be precluded by that trade area restriction right? Traditionally that is the case.
Although there are some there are some agreements out there and Starwood and Marriott both didn’t have some of that that go open multiple brands that is unusual.
Got it.
Thank you very much for the color.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Crow with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys.
Let me following up on the Conrad can you quantify - are you allowed to quantify the key money that you received to make that choice? That is a great question but we haven’t made it public yet.
So we haven’t disclosed it yet we will in the future but we can’t at this moment.
How hard did Hilton fight to retain the Conrad flag? That's a loaded question.
I will say we had extensive conversations with senior management of Hilton about what they want to do with their brands within that market both Conrad and soft brand opportunities that they have within their portfolio and we went through that and we talked to a number of other major brand companies about alternatives.
And at the end of the day really economics that drove the decision to deliver the highest value to us.
Great great.
Just one strategy question which is you now have I think six seven resort properties a quarter of your portfolio.
How do you think about maintaining that size that weighting toward resorts as we get later into this - admittedly we've got a few years left to go in the cycle.
But as you think about the cycle ultimately coming to some sort of an end how much exposure do you want in the resort sector? Would you buy more at this point? Yes so I guess the way we measure traditional resorts we are about 15%.
All resorts are not created the same.
So for instance if you look at -- I'll give you two examples within our portfolio if you look at the Inn at Key West which is a 100 room hotel in Key West that is a leisure true tourist destination.
It's going to appeal that if you look at Ford Lauderdale that is very different a tremendous meeting platform so while it is a resort it also has a tremendous ability to play the group recovery as well.
So I would say we never want our portfolio to be more than 20% 25% resorts.
I think we’re pretty bullish on the general thesis that the traveller over the next decade will continue to want experience of travel.
So if they can do a meeting in a place that has a beach or has other things to do like a Vail we do tremendous business in Vail in the summer with small meetings we think that that trend is a good trend to ride and we will perform well over the next several years.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
And your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Looking at the group trends in the first quarter they were quite strong.
I'm wondering what your expectations are for the balance of the year maybe group revenues as well as F&amp;B revenue growth.
Sure Wes this is Rob Q2 we are currently flat to our pace Q3 is going to be down a bit but we see an increase in Q4 similar to what other companies are seeing as well.
However we do see the F&amp;B group contribution increasing with our spend so its going to continue short-term nature of business and also the F&amp;B spend continues to increase.
Okay.
And then...
Wes this is Sean for some so we continue as we as we mentioned on the firs on the year end call we expected sort of mid single-digit group revenue increases for the year we continue to expect mid single-digit revenue increases primarily driven by rate as we sit here today about 80% of the group business that we expect to book is already booked in definite so we have pretty good color on where we expect group to end up for the year and so our expectation hasn’t changed from where we started the year.
The first quarter we knew based on our booking activity was going to be good it was slightly better than we thought because of the in the quarter for the quarter booking activity up 60% but we feel pretty good about group but as we mentioned before our real story for 2015 is our ability to drive transient rate and which is really going to drive our portfolio group this has taken a back seat the transient.
Okay.
And then sticking with that real quick though when the groups do get to the hotel are you finding out they're spending more or are they just more in line with what you expected? They absolutely spending more room Wes our group contribution went up in the quarter by 2.5% and we are seeing quite a bit more spend typically booking at the time of contracting lower minimum and then coming in and spending more upon arrival.
Okay.
And then last one for me.
You guys gave excellent detail on a lot of the hotels.
The one I was looking at was Frenchman's Reef.
What are your expectations this year for that hotel? Yes so for this year we're expecting the hotel to hit our expectations.
We had a god first quarter we slightly shifted our demand base dealing with less group and that group was down 32% which impacted our food and beverage contribution.
However when you look at close to 90% occupancy we are really pleased with how the first quarter went there our second quarter at Frenchman's will be very focused on group as well.
So we have a stronger base group for Q2 but overall we think the overall - our stock there would be over $13 million.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys Thanks Wes.
End of Q&amp;A I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
To everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you on our next quarter call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the DiamondRock Hospitality Company's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Brett Stewart Vice President Finance.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Ben.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's second quarter 2015 earnings call and webcast.
Before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law and may not be historical fact.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
In addition as management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliations to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
With me on today's call is Mark Brugger our President and Chief Executive Officer; Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Chief Investment Officer.
This morning Mark will provide a brief overview of our second quarter results and transactions as well as provide an update on the company's outlook for the rest of 2015.
Sean will then provide greater detail on our second quarter performance and discuss our recent capital markets activities.
Following their remarks we will open the line for questions.
With that I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Brett.
Let me start by saying that we are very pleased with our results this quarter and are encouraged by the continued strength of underlying lodging fundamentals.
Demand grew at 2.7% in the quarter and continue to significantly outpace new lodging supply.
With continued strength in both transient and group demand Industry RevPAR growth was primarily driven by ADR increases as operators are able to raise rates and improve profitability.
We expect these trends to continue throughout this year and next.
Turning now to our portfolio.
Our solid results for the second quarter were in line with our expectations.
DiamondRock's second quarter RevPAR of a $184.50 set a new company record for reported quarterly RevPAR.
Our pro forma portfolio RevPAR grew 6% and was driven by a 5.6% increase in average daily rate.
Occupancy levels at our hotels were also at company record levels averaging nearly 84%.
Importantly the portfolio delivered strong bottom-line results as well.
Same property hotel adjusted EBITDA margins which excludes the newly built Hilton Garden Inn Times Square grew 166 basis points during the quarter leading to over 11% EBITDA growth versus last year.
Including the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square our year-over-year same property adjusted EBITDA grew by more than 15%.
The strong results were broad-based during the quarter with 13 hotels growing adjusted EBITDA margins by more than 200 basis points.
Our asset management efforts were particularly effective in our food and beverage program as the hotels achieved over 300 basis points of margin expansion in that department.
Although still a challenging environment our New York City hotels met our expectations and enjoyed exceptional occupancies of 92% 94% 95% 96% and 98%.
These hotels excluding the non-comp Hilton Garden Inn Times Square finished the quarter with positive RevPAR growth of almost 1% which marks the second consecutive quarter that our New York City hotels have outperformed in the Manhattan market by more than 300 basis points on an absolute basis.
Importantly the Lexington achieved a RevPAR growth of approximately 4% during the second quarter and the New Hilton Garden Inn Times Square is still on track to generate a healthy 9% EBITDA yield this year.
The market and our outperformance are consistent with our expectations going into the year and into the second quarter.
And we expect that trend to continue for the balance of 2015.
Excluding our New York City hotels our portfolio pro forma RevPAR growth was 7.2% for the quarter which gives us great confidence in the continued strength of lodging fundamentals nationally.
Similarly our pro forma hotel adjusted EBITDA margins grew 227 basis points excluding our New York City hotels.
Turning to our recent acquisitions.
Over last year we have bought five hotels.
The acquisitions are playing up better than originally expected and delivering solid returns.
The Inn at Key West is generating an NOI yield of over 8%.
The Hilton Garden Inn Times Square is also interacted to deliver an over 8% NOI yield in our first calendar year of ownership which is a really remarkable return for our hotel in this location.
But the real home run has been our Westin Fort Lauderdale Resort.
We've implemented our best practices at this hotel and it is yielding some stunning results.
We now expect to increase NOI this year by over 50% and are forecasting to take out $3 million dollars of operating costs.
This should led to over 1 000 basis points of profit margin expansion this year.
Our NOI yield in this deal is now well over 8% and the purchase price represents less than 11 times 2015 EBITDA multiple.
Our fourth acquisition completed earlier this year expanded our West Coast footprint with the addition of the Shorebreak.
The hotel is off to a good start in the second quarter with 7.5% RevPAR growth and almost 500 basis points of margin expansion.
And last month we announced that we acquired the Sheraton Suites Key West.
The all-suites hotel is directly to access and has some of the largest rooms in Key West one of our favorite markets.
Our $94 million or 511 000 per key purchase price represents a solid 12.8 times EBITDA multiple on 2015 forecast.
We are very optimistic about its growth trajectory as its RevPAR grew a robust 14.2% and profit margins expanded by more than 450 basis points in the quarter.
This acquisition also has a great value creation opportunity to convert the hotel from a Sheraton brand into an independent lifestyle hotel which would likely occur in late 2016.
This conversion will allow us to eliminate more than $1.5 million of brand fees implement a fee for parking and re-concept the food and beverage outlets.
As a result we underwrote the hotel to generate between $9.5 million and $10 million of EBITDA upon stabilization with potential upside.
I should note that this acquisition also marked a strategic milestone for DiamondRock as now more than 50% of our portfolio is managed by third-party operators versus only one 10 years ago and only two five years ago.
During the quarter we also made progress on several strategic initiatives.
On last quarter's call we announced that we will convert the brand managed Chicago Conrad hotel to an independently operated luxury hotel affiliated with Starwood's Luxury Collection.
As expected the transition this year led to underperformance in the quarter as a result of pending brand and management change.
The official transition will occur in early September and we expect to realize the full potential of this great hotel over the next three years.
With no other luxury hotel offerings within the Starwood system in Chicago we believe that this is a compelling opportunity for us.
To briefly quantify the upside associated with the strategic brand change we believe that there is approximately 17 points of RevPAR market share upside and at least $35 of rate potential from where we sit today.
Now before I turn the call over to Sean for a more detailed update on our second quarter results and on our capital markets activities I would like to provide you with an update on our expansion option at the Boston Westin.
When the company acquired the 793 room Boston Westin in 2007 the deal included an option to lease land and build a 350 room expansion on a parcel adjacent to the hotel.
With that option set to expire in mid-2016 we've spent considerable time carefully evaluating this opportunity.
As part of our comprehensive analysis we conducted an RFP engaged feasibility consultants consulted a preeminent Boston developer and formulate the operating projections with Starwood.
After carefully consideration of the pros and cons of the opportunity we've decided not to proceed with the expansion for a few reasons.
One the opening date in 2019 and funding for the expansion has a high risk of coinciding with the wrong part of the lodging cycle.
And two the risk associated with the development warranted a higher return threshold than what we view as achievable.
In the end the company concluded that the investment capacity that would be used for this development is better allocated towards near-term acquisitions or future stock buybacks.
Sean? Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our second quarter results please note that our reported RevPAR and margin data are presented on a pro forma basis to include the Shorebreak Hotel and Sheraton Suites Key West as if they were owned for all periods presented and exclude the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central since it was not open during the comparable period of 2014.
Let me start by reiterating Mark's comments that we were pleased with our second quarter results.
Our pro forma RevPAR grew 6% exceeding industry upper upscale RevPAR growth of by 5.4%.
The top line outperformance was primarily driven by our ability to drive an average rate increase of 5.6% supplemented by a 0.4 percentage point increase in occupancy.
Our RevPAR growth also helped drive the bottom line with over 70% profit flow-through and 166 basis points of hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion.
For the year-to-date period ended June 30 the company reported pro forma of RevPAR growth of 6.8% which was the result of a 5% in the average rate and a 1.4 percentage point increase in occupancy.
Year-to-date hotel adjusted EBITDA margins have expanded by 154 basis points.
During the quarter the company reported adjusted EBITDA of $81.1 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.31.
I would also note that we recorded a $9.6 million non-cash impairment charge during the second quarter as a result of our decision to not exercise the development option at the Boston Westin.
This charge was added back to our adjusted EBITDA.
Second quarter results benefited from strength in both the business and leisure transient segments with combined revenues from these segments growing 8.8%.
Our group business also performed well this quarter with revenue growth of 6.7% driven by a 6.1% increase in rate and a 0.5 percentage point increase in rooms sold.
Our group segment was led by Frenchman's Reef the Chicago Marriot and the San Diego Westin.
The recent positive trend of robust short-term group booking activity continued this quarter.
Our portfolio booked $17.8 million up in the quarter for the year revenues during the second quarter which was an increase of approximately 24% compared to the amount booked during the second quarter of 2014.
Strength in short-term bookings was most notable at the Boston Westin and Fort Lauderdale Westin.
In addition group spend on food and beverage and [ph] AV increased over 20% during the quarter which we believe is a corollary to group confidence.
Finally food and beverage results exceeded our expectations this quarter achieving 6.1% top line growth that coupled with tight cost controls resulted in over 300 basis points of margin expansion and 87% profit flow-through.
Group outperformance was a primary driver in F&amp;B where banquet and catering revenues increased over 12% and margins grew a 190 basis points during the quarter.
Now let me highlight several individual hotel results.
The Washington DC Western continue to gain traction in all segments during the quarter achieving over 25% RevPAR growth.
We expect the hotel to continue gaining market share and outperforming the Washington DC market which has exceeded our expectations this year.
The 41 new rooms created at the Boston Helton contributed to a 22% increase in quarterly adjusted - hotel adjusted EBITDA that 93 renovated rooms commanded over $110 rate premium from May through July which exceeded our expectations.
The Chicago Marriott delivered 12% RevPAR growth and 288 basis points of margin expansion.
These results benefited from several factors including a strong convention calendar several special events taking place in Chicago including the NFL draft outsized rate growth from the recently renovated rooms incremental demand during the Blackhawks' run to the Stanley Cup and the recent amendment to the management agreement.
Similar to the Boston Hilton the hotel is able to charge a rate premium from the renovated rooms which was approximately $50 during the quarter and ahead of our expectation.
The San Diego Westin had another outstanding quarter achieving 12.3% RevPAR growth.
The hotel continues to benefit from its recent renovation and repositioning.
Year-to-date RevPAR is up 12.8% and margins have expanded 272 basis points.
We expect the hotel to continue to outperform for the balance of 2015 where we expect the hotel to generate double-digit RevPAR growth.
Finally the Hotel Rex in San Francisco had another great quarter with RevPAR growth of 18% and hotel adjusted EBDITA margin expansion of 330 basis points.
We continue to be very bullish on the future of this hotel which is expected to generate an attractive NOI yield over 9% during 2015.
Partially offsetting the positive trends in the quarter was the challenging operating environment in New York City.
We remain confident in the positioning of our New York portfolio which represents approximately 16% of our pro forma hotel adjusted EBITDA.
Some specific data points that support our confidence include; second quarter RevPAR growth for our New York portfolio was 0.8% which outperformed the market RevPAR growth by approximately 300 basis points.
We expect our New York portfolio to outpace the market and generate RevPAR growth of 3.5% to 5.5% during the second half of the year.
The Lexington Hotel which represents close to half of our New York portfolio continues to gain traction.
Over the last 12 months the hotel has gained over a 19 percentage points of market share.
Finally the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square which represents over a quarter of our New York portfolio is continuing to ramp up and is currently tracking ahead of our underwriting.
In addition the Chicago Conrad is currently transitioning from Hilton's sales engines and to Starwood's Luxury Collection which is expected to be noisy through the end of the third quarter.
The transition caused a 7.4% decline in the hotel's second quarter RevPAR.
Although we expect the transition to negatively impact the hotel's third quarter we are very bullish on the prospects for the hotel after rebranding the Starwood's Luxury Collection.
Before discussing the balance sheet we wanted to provide some color on our group outlook for the balance of the year.
As a reminder we still expect 2015 group revenue to increase 4% almost exclusively driven by the rate growth.
However we expect both industry and DiamondRock group business to be soft during the third quarter.
Our guidance implies the group revenue will decline in the high single digits during the third quarter.
The soft third quarter group segment which was factored into our prior guidance is the result of holiday timing and weak citywide activity in our large group markets including Chicago Minneapolis and Boston.
We expect the business transient segment which commands a $50 rate premium to group to significantly mitigate the group's softness.
We expect group to reaccelerate in the fourth quarter where group revenues are expected to increase in the mid-single digits.
In addition please note that we've raised guidance for hotel-adjusted EBITDA margin expansion.
Our new guidance is for 125 basis points to 175 basis points of expansion which is up from our previous guidance range of 100 basis points to 150 basis points provided last quarter.
Before turning the call back over to Mark I would like to touch on our balance sheet which we believe is among the best in the industry.
Being prudent towards of our investor's capital has been a cornerstone of DiamondRock's strategy since we founded the company.
We have over a decade long track record of consistently maintaining a straight forward and low-risk balance sheet.
This discipline has allowed us to return close to $600 million in cash dividends to our shareholders since our IPO.
We have made great progress towards achieving our initiative to reduce annual interest cost by several million dollars through proactively refinancing our near-term debt maturities.
We have a focused plan to efficiently reduce borrowing costs extend and stagger our maturity schedule and expand our pool of unencumbered hotels.
Recent financing successes include refinancing the Renaissance Worthington with a new $85 million 10 year mortgage bearing interest at a fixed rate of 3.66%.
Refinancing with JW Marriot at Cherry Creek with a new $65 million 10 year mortgage bearing interest at a fixed rate of 4.33%.
Pre-paying the Frenchman's Reef Marriott mortgage with excess proceeds from Worthington and Cherry Creek.
And in total we have refinanced approximately $150 million of 5.7% interest rate debt with new 10 year fixed rate debt bearing interest at approximately 3.95% resulting in annual interest rate savings of approximately $2.7 million.
We are pleased with the success of our refinancing initiatives.
We will continue to execute on our action plan to refinance our remaining near-term debt maturities.
Specifically we intend to raise between $200 million to $250 million through encumbering one or more hotels during the balance of the year.
These proceeds will be used to repay the $203 million loan secured by the Chicago Marriott which is pre-payable without penalty in early 2016.
In total we expect our 2016 interest expense to be approximately $8 million lower than this year which represents $0.04 of incremental FFO per share.
After executing on our financing strategy for the balance of the year we expect to end 2015 with over $250 million of unrestricted cash over half of our hotels unencumbered with an aggregate cost basis of $1.6 billion.
And undrawn corporate revolver and over a $100 million of investment capacity.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
As Sean mentioned we are encouraged by our second quarter results and by the continued strength of underlying lodging fundamentals.
Our recent acquisitions continue to exceed expectations.
Our asset management initiatives including our ROI projects continue to drive profitability.
And our refinancing activities have strengthened our already attractive leverage profile.
Today we updated our full-year guidance raising some components.
We reaffirm our RevPAR growth expectation of 6% to 7% for the full-year.
We raised our adjusted corporate EBITDA guidance to $266.5 million to $276.5 million increased $2.5 million for acquisition of the Sheraton Suites Key West.
And similarly we increased our adjusted FFO per share guidance to a range of $1 to $1.03.
We've raised our full year hotel adjusted EBITDA margin growth guidance to be in the range of 125 basis points to a 175 basis points with the midpoint now 50 basis points higher than when we first introduced 2015 guidance and ahead of the increased margin guidance range provided on the first quarter earnings call.
As Sean mentioned for the third quarter we expect pro forma RevPAR growth to be in the range of 3% to 5% reflecting a tough comparison to last year's third-quarter growth of 18.6% as well as the shift in holidays and the spread of [indiscernible] calendars.
Importantly we want to highlight that we expect RevPAR growth to reaccelerate in the fourth quarter which should be strong group quarter for us.
Our expectations are for the full year remains unchanged at 6% to 7% RevPAR growth.
Further we expect our New York City assets to continue to gain momentum as we move into the back half of the year.
We expect our New York City portfolio RevPAR growth to be in the range of 3.5% to 5.5% for the second half of the year.
Lastly before I open up for questions let me provide a quick update on our investment pipeline.
We remain sensitive to our cost of capital which has become more expensive since January.
As I noted earlier in the call the acquisitions over the last year have generally exceeded our expectations and enhanced the growth prospects of DiamondRock.
We will continue to actively evaluate opportunities that meet our criteria and create shareholder value.
But we'll remain disciplined when it comes to price size and complexity.
We are fully cognizant that our cost of capital has increased while we currently have more than a $100 million of investment capacity.
We've already made two great advice this year and we considered a successful year even if we don't do another deal.
With that I would like to sum up the prepared remarks by saying that we feel very good about the industry our portfolio our capital allocation discipline execution and the momentum from our asset management initiatives.
We are confident that all of these will allow us to continue to create value for our shareholders throughout the lodging cycle.
We would now be happy to answer any questions that you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Just a few questions and first Mark I want to compliment you on the decision process for the Boston expansion.
Thank you.
Hey just I guess concerning the Conrad in Chicago can that's being converted over the Luxury Collection.
Can you just talk about who you think in the most direct comps in that market for that hotel going forward? Sure Jeff it's Rob Tanenbaum good morning.
The comps for that would be the JW Marriott and the Loop the Park Hyatt and [ph] W and the Loop as well.
And I missed this I think Mark was going through it.
How you - how do you guys think that this hotel will ultimately position out versus those peers and how long do you think it will take to achieve those levels in terms of like RevPAR index for example? So Jeff so in the prepared remarks we said we think there is about 17 points of market share opportunity versus where the hotel fits today.
And that would translate into about $35 - in today's dollars about $35 or a little more than in $35 in [ph] REIT.
And as far as timing we would expect to gain traction fairly quickly but usually in the brand conversion of - to fully reap the benefits takes about two or three years.
Okay.
And just to switch gears I just wanted to clarify.
Do you anticipate any say labor related issues at your Kimpton property that which your peers experienced up in San Francisco? We did not - we do not have any reasonably we would have any activity out of the norm at that hotel.
And then at Bethesda I know it's not a significant asset for you but there has been some talk about Marriott relocating its corporate headquarters long into the future from now.
Do you know how much the business that hotel stems from Marriott's headquarters proximity and I guess how does that shape your wholesale analysis on that property? It's a demand generator certainly for the hotel Lockheed Martin is still in that same office park.
There is about 5 million square feet total of office surrounding the hotel.
Marriott's lease is not up for another six or seven years so it's still quite a ways out there.
But that asset I think based on its average RevPAR if you kind of call what's non-core and what will it be on our disposition target list.
I think for a variety of reasons that one is certainly on that list.
And Jeff this is Sean.
Marriot as a demand generator is under 10% of the special corporate demand at the hotel mostly mid-week.
Okay.
And just one last question concerning the Vail asset I recognized it maybe a little early for this but that hotel actually had a pretty good revenue growth in the quarter.
I'd say largely outside of the ski season actually at the rollout schedule but I know Vail Resorts has been looking to build its summer business.
I was curious if that sort of an early indication of that success or do you feel that driver so largely ahead of you guys that hotel.
Sure.
Jeff this is Rob again.
The summer business has been growing also due in part two one our Group business of the hotel as well as due to the developments going on at Vail Mountain.
Hey Jeff I would just add that Vail's been one of our best buys and we're sitting here on 2015 numbers about 14% unlevered NOI yield on that asset.
So it's enjoyed the benefit of the epic past the investment that Vail's made in the summer and the continued evolution of the large area of Vail.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker of Canaccord Genuity.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I appreciate the lot of the color that you gave us on the Boston development and decisions not move forward with the option.
I'm wondering how did you factor in the possibility of somebody else taking over the plan - our development plan that might directly compete with your Westin there.
Thanks.
Sure.
Good morning Ryan.
This is Mark.
So we obviously spend a lot of time evaluating the opportunity the economics to us.
The reason the economics and again that we didn't think that we're enough to offset the kind of the negatives of the timing and the development risk.
It works really well as expansion for our existing hotel because you can leverage all that infrastructure to say actually it sits behind our hotel off the main street.
So it will be a less desirable site for any other hotel developer.
So it have to go out for RFP get a building permit.
Our expectation was if it does become a hotel it's unlikely to happen this cycle it could happen.
But there is so much demand in what's evolving in the Seaport even if it did we don't think that it would have an impact on our a negative impact on our hotel.
All right.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then Rob I guess a question for you the new Hilton Garden Inn Times Square ran at almost to 100% occupancy.
I think 98.5% do you feel like you left some rate on the table in the quarter? Ryan we're continuing to work with our operators on bringing up our non - our discounted business and we believe there is opportunity to further to drive rate.
Yeah.
Okay.
I've just looked at that and I was tend to think when we're running that higher occupancy we're leaving some rate on the table but I guess the market was challenged in the quarter two.
And then Rob I guess as we think about the margins you guys obviously put up really good margin numbers this quarter you've got good guidance for this year I guess how much juice is left in the margin expansion story beyond simply the cycle play? We feel there is quite a bit of margin expansion available to us Ryan.
In particular as we continue to focusing on our food and beverage margin our rooms revenue drive as well.
And just overall labor containment as we go through all of our properties.
All right.
That's it from me.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Ryan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Going back to New York.
How do the supply growth outlook look for the rest of the year and also into the next year for your marketing and also for your submarkets? Anthony this is Mark.
So supply this year looks like it's going to be less than what it was originally anticipated as a number of developments we got pushed off.
We think it's going to be - it's going to be marginally higher next year although in our particular markets the bulk of our investments are in Midtown East.
Midtown East actually has some of the lowest supply numbers in the Manhattan market.
Additionally they're talking about taking the 1 000 keys out at the Waldorf Astoria over the next couple of years to residential conversion that would obviously be an enormously positive impact to the East side and to the supply picture there.
So we actually feel pretty good about where our investments are and what's happening in the city.
Got it.
And just further on New York it's good to see the Chelsea asset do a lot better this quarter.
How much more do you have there to improve the performance relative to these trends? Yeah.
If we look at the recent times and obviously we've made a manager change just in June.
We continue to - that's a revenue management game there.
So we now have the right players in place.
We've lost about eight points of market share that we don't think we should have lost at that property over the last year so we would certainly anticipate gaining at least that much back.
Anthony this is Rob.
For July alone we had a 13.3% increase in RevPAR.
Our index was over 100% for July which is the first time in 16 months so we feel very confident in our new approach of this asset.
Got it.
And just one final on Boston.
What's the exact process for I guess that opportunity to go back out to [indiscernible] and how - what's the timeline for that? Sure so we have a - our current option it goes through to the early 2016 but the way the option works is we would probably - we want to be good partners with the MCCA who owns the land there.
We'll probably allow them to terminate the lease early if we don't put up deposit at end of this month we would terminate the lease.
And then they would have to go through a whole new process.
It still needs to get a building permit and design and there's - there's a lot of pieces that would have to fall in place for them to bring it back out to RFP.
All right great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Austin Wurschmidt of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Just a question you mentioned stock buybacks being on the table and I was just curious if you had and how large of a program you have in place to the extent that you would move forward with buying back some stock.
Would you guys consider or look to balance that with dispositions in order to maintain your dry powder today? Good morning Austin its Mark.
That's a great question.
So we do believe that our stock is trading well below NAV today.
Frankly we're trading - we were trading over 30% higher at the beginning of the year.
On buyback - buyback program excuse me we currently have in place a $200 million program that's fully available to us.
It's obviously a serious topic with the board but ultimately we're trying to balance out our capital allocation options leverage and timing.
As far as funding it with dispositions that would certainly be on the table.
As we mentioned earlier we do have investment capacity but we are looking at some other opportunities that we'll continue to balance those out over time.
Great thanks.
And then separately on the third party achieving kind of your longer-term target in terms of exposure to third party hotel operators would you guys look to continue to drive that lower or are you comfortable where you are today? Yeah.
I'd say we're opportunistic we currently have 15.
The three deals in our pipeline that I mentioned earlier none of which may come to fruition but all three of those are third-party operated.
I would say we're opportunistic.
Clearly one of our strategic goals is to be 50-50.
So I think it will depend on where we can get the best returns for our shareholders.
And then lastly just a clarification.
You guys in the release had mentioned the first phase at the Chicago Marriott Downtown included 200 rooms it was revised to a 140 it looked like.
Did anything changed there or..? No Austin This is Sean.
It was the top five floors then it was 140 rooms there as well as 25 suites.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Smedes Rose of Citi.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
I just wanted to ask you you mentioned better results with your Chicago Marriott in part due to the amended management agreement.
I was just wondering can you sort of quantify on an annual basis how much you think that will help the EBITDA at that property? Sure Smedes.
We think on a continuing basis it's anywhere from $1.5 million to a little over $2 million in annual fee savings at the hotel.
Okay thanks.
And then Mark I'd be interested to hear your perspective.
Obviously this has been a very choppy second quarter for lodging companies and there's been a wide range of same-store RevPAR and a wide range of commentary about where we are and I'm just curious maybe you could talk about what you guys are seeing for 2016 maybe on the group side that gives you some confidence that this cycle is maybe not ending faster than might have initially been expected? Sure Smedes.
So I guess there's a couple of things going on that make us continue to feel good about where we are in the lodging cycle.
Obviously it's the supply picture which we have pretty good clarity is good.
But the - in the quarter for the quarter group bookings continue to be very strong.
So the - if we look at the funnel the funnel looks good.
The realization of the opportunities in the last quarter were very good.
On special corporate transient transients led this recovery.
It continues to be very strong where we saw obviously good strength in the second quarter.
It's too early to give you good feedback on special corporate negotiations for 2016.
But clearly the occupancy levels are at record levels.
In a number of these markets we feel like we have leverage going into those conversations.
And then the group the group is really a market-by-market story you've seen better F&amp;B contribution this year better AV outside the room spend that's increased.
But we really think group on a national basis it's improving but it really depends what market you're in what the citywide calendar looks like what availability is there.
So that one I think you're going to see some great results in some markets and some not great results but it's really going to be specific to what's going on within those markets.
So those are the trend lines we're seeing today.
Okay.
And then just finally Sean you - during the quarter you guys mentioned there were attacks I think at Frenchman's Reef that wasn't extended.
Has that been resolved at this point or could you maybe just update us on that? Yeah we're still going through the process down there in St.
Thomas and we'll be able to provide an update of that when we get it - when we - assuming we get it.
We feel confident that we should get it but we just have to continue and going through the process and hopefully our expectation is that that will happen in the third quarter.
All right.
Thanks.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Loeb of Robert Baird.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I'd like to circle back to Boston and kind of take Ryan's question and turn it around.
Can you just talk a little bit about how you see those other opportunities what kind of returns you see from those other uses of your capacity? And what - how that weighs relative to the potential return for - basically creating new rooms at discount where rooms in that marketer are valued.
Sure David.
Probably the best way to answer that question is to kind of recap some of the deals we have done in the last 12 months.
Number of those deals majority are over a caps on first year numbers - first calendar year numbers.
Those are pretty compelling I think particularly the efforts lead by Troy Furbay have been better than we expected.
But Fort Lauderdale which we bought in December of last year not that long ago that will be below and 11 times multiple of the EBITDA on this year's numbers.
So if we can find special situations like that that's certainly is compelling use or our allocation of our capital.
For the Boston Westin opportunity we think it's a very interesting opportunity it was not an easy call but we think you need more than 200 basis points of above our baseline or our projections to do a deal like that.
And that's now where the returns are penciling in right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Morocco of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
I wanted to ask you on the Key West Sheraton if there you've talked about repositioning that independent is there a possibility that Starwood stays involved with their with the new soft brand if the numbers workout or you pretty much set on going totally independent? Chris this is Mark.
That's a great question.
I'd say we are open-minded right now.
We will talk to Starwood about other options for the property.
I think we're committed to move away from the Sheraton brand as we think there is ability to reposition the asset and gain higher rates.
But certainly we'll be opened to any efforts that they have on that.
We do think the independent makes a lot of sense that's obviously that one of the highest occupancy markets in the U.S.
and this is a great product with the suites.
So we'll continue to keep an open mind and have a dialogue with Starwood but our base case for buying the asset is that we will convert it to an independent at the end of next year.
Okay.
Got you.
And then you have a piece of debt coming due in January property mortgage should we - I think it's a property that some folks might consider non-core is there anything I mean you guys would normally kind of think about doing something on that that pretty soon or disposing of the property any update on kind of what any update there? Yeah.
Chris we're evaluating our options there.
I think at a minimum I think our view there is that we could take that debt and prepaid it early and save interest rates just by putting that on our line of credit at a minimum but we're also evaluating what the best long-term plan for that asset is and that could include refinancing disposition or just encumbering and keeping an unencumbered pool.
Okay.
Great.
And then just to go back to Frenchman's.
I think you guys have done pretty well operationally there over the years but it from time-to-time creates a little bit of noise and just friction because of the location.
How do you view that longer-term in the context of those that fit and are the - is the amount of noise is it always justified by the returns? Just your thoughts there thanks.
Sure this Mark.
So for instance actually we've had a lot of success since we invested capital in it on the top line.
We still think that there is opportunity at the -the asset and certainly we would like the best position before we monetize the asset.
I would say it's not on the top of our disposition list but over time it may be an asset that we consider disposing of.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Crow of Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Let's start with the - with Boston and maybe the last question on Boston but given all the work you did I'm sure you have a pretty good idea what the cost per key would have been to complete the project and I think that would be a valuable number for us as we think about replacement cost? We think - depending how you value the land a hotel - to build a hotel there's about 500 000 key all-in but the land is obviously a little bit of a moving target.
We had the advantage of having a fixed option on the ground lease.
Right.
But 500 would be what represent a fair market value of land? Is that a good way to think about it? Yeah that's fair.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
You talked about the...
One of the data point yeah one of the data point I want to add in Seaport there is a - there is this operated hotel that's on the market now that we understand is going to trade for 700K a little better transient location but that - there'll be some trades we think in the Seaport area that will give people better hand on where evaluations are as well.
That's helpful.
You talked about the rooms at Waldorf potentially coming up you also have the at rooms at the Intercon that are going to come back online.
What's the timing for that and how do you think that impacts your side market when that comes back? Rob why don't you address that? Sure.
Bill good morning.
Those rooms are expected to come back on in March of 2016.
And the hotels receiving $175 million renovation top to bottom adding a too large ballrooms with it.
And actually increasing its room count.
But we think that hotel is going to be repositioned in a much higher pay at much higher rate than was previously positioned.
And so we have the opportunity to draft underneath that.
Okay.
Two more quick questions if I may.
First is the - you're converting the Conrad obviously to lesser collection you're also taking the share in the brand.
It looks like of the key West asset.
Obviously you're in discussions with the Starwood there almost single mindedly focused on unit growth at this point I'm trying to if I catch up.
And maybe doing it uneconomically which would be to your benefit I guess.
Any change in negotiations discussions their stance their aggressiveness that you've seen over the last six months or whatever? Sure.
So I think we can - we can give you a pretty upside - a pretty good insight on the luxury collection opportunity.
I think it's too early to comment on the Key West opportunity since we - we just started engaging with them on that.
On the - on the opportunity Chicago for years before there was a change in their CEO they said that opportunity would not be available for that hotel.
When Adam came in we approached them again.
They had one - we understand they have kind of one bullet left under a territorial restriction that exist for them.
And Adam was actually very aggressive in walking the property engaging with us and using that one bullet on our property - so I think we both recognized it could be a real win-win for both of us.
So I would say that there was a significant change in the willingness and engagement level with Starwood on that opportunity.
Again on the Key West opportunity we just acquired it we just announced that we'll kind of have to let that one play out a little bit to give you a better gauge.
Yeah fair enough.
I appreciate it.
Finally from me just about the third quarter and guidance of 3 to 5 is kind of in line with what we've seen in the peers maybe even a little better than some of the peers.
We just got the STR preliminary data for July showed RevPAR up 7 and 9 for the industry.
Maybe you could help us think about how tough September is going to be in order to offset what was a pretty good start to the quarter? Sure.
I think it's market exposure as much as it is June to July.
I think different markets are behaving very differently.
And so while the national numbers - I just think you're going to see a lot of variation between what the companies report and what these national averages are on the RevPAR growth.
So we're actually - I can tell you at our hotel and in our markets there are wild deviations between the strength in June and July both ways.
So I'm not sure we can draw any particular conclusions about July strength nationally versus what we're seeing in our individual markets.
But do you think September given the calendar changes should we expect negative RevPAR growth for the month as we think about it playing out? Yeah Bill this is Sean.
We would not expect negative RevPAR at least certainly not in our portfolio for - for September.
I mean our third quarter is really going to be dictated by group which we expect to- to be down in the high single-digits.
We expect a lot of that to be offset by strength in the transient but group which is about 30% of our total book of business is going to be challenging and a lot of that is going to be citywide driven timing of the holiday driven as well as some specific market stop particularly within Minneapolis where there are a couple of huge citywide that were in last year that are not going to repeat their one-time events.
And Minneapolis is a big group hotel for us.
Listen guys I appreciate the time.
Thanks.
Thank you Bill.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Thomas Allen of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Can you give any commentary around international visitation trends at your properties? Thanks.
Sure this is Mark.
So international is not a very big segment for us the only market where it really has any impact at all is New York and even in New York we're seeing - we're seeing the international demand relatively stable at our hotels.
But again running in most of our hotels 8% or 10% I'm not sure that's indicative of what's going on with the international demand generally.
Okay helpful.
Thanks.
And then just a clarification on your 2015 RevPAR guidance you reiterated the - you reiterated the six to seven.
Did Key West influence that at all or not? Thanks.
Thomas This is Sean.
It's not really because it's only a 184 rooms so just the waiting of it does not dramatically impact it although we expect good things out of that hotel this year of second quarter and that hotel was very strong with double-digit RevPAR but it's not large enough to move our consolidated RevPAR numbers.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Toms.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys good morning.
You covered a lot of ground but I think last quarter it was probably a bigger topic talking about the Conrad rebrand but I'm just curious now that we can quantify the RevPAR decline you guys saw in Q2 how do you think about the ramp back up of that property sort of rebuilding through luxury collection.
Is it going to stay this type of GAAP for a quarter or do you think it's going to ramp pretty steadily in the next couple of quarters? Hi Shaun Rob Tanenbaum we believe for the third quarter there will be some additional impact with the transition.
However the ramp up is going to be definitely a steady ramp up as we go into it.
Our results certainly were in line with expectation and in reviewing our opportunities we're extremely encouraged by the pre-conversion sales and marketing efforts both on the transient group channels and we remain very positive on the incremental strength in the hotel as it benefits from the Starwood system.
The opportunity within special corporate is unbelievable and we're excited about that.
Especially now that we brought our in-house group sales office into back into the property from a - previously it was complex operation.
We're seeing some great strides of that.
Thanks for that Rob.
And just to be clear then if you say additional disruption does that mean that do you think at least the GAAP to the market and I understand you know it's going to be vary based on what Chicago more broadly is doing.
But does that mean the gap to the market is probably going to actually get wider in 3Q before it stabilizes and starts to move back in the direction? No Shaun that gap will shrink.
It'll start shrinking as quickly as the end of the third quarter? Yes.
Okay.
Great.
And then maybe just a bigger one a bigger picture one probably for Mark but just broadly at this point you outlined and talked about stock buyback potential.
But if you're going to help us prioritize - if M&amp;A were back on the table for you in terms of acquisition markets right now you did Key West you've done a couple now either resort or beach type location in your recent deals.
What are you kind of looking for right now just what markets specifically which you would be most intrigued by at this point in the cycle? Sure.
So our acquisition focus has been on adding market diversity and really been emphasizing on expanding our West Coast footprint.
If I looked at our current pipeline report they are three deals under intensive evaluation.
Two of them are urban CBD locations in the Pacific Northwest and one is in Southern California.
But with that said I need to mention that we're highly sensitive to our cost of capital.
So most of these opportunities we're looking at there's usually some kind of value enhancement opportunities to make them pass on and to be able to create value for our shareholders.
But as far as markets we're looking to expand our West Coast footprint that would probably be the emphasis of our efforts.
And the three priority deals that we have right now all which are relatively small are in - are on the West Coast.
And is - does that both limited service and full service Mark? One of the three has limited service.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich of Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Just a quick one for me.
Can you talk about cap rate trend? Sure.
This is Mark.
Lukas I would say we in the last year we have lost 90% of the assets that we've chased because the cap rates continued to stay very aggressive and actually in a number of markets we've seen slight contraction this year.
Now obviously we need to pullback a lot recently and they've been - they buy a lot of these assets but we've seen strategic switching international money leasing some new entries into the market.
So it is still a very competitive environment out there and certainly we haven't seen any pullback in where cap rates have been on high-quality deals.
Great.
That's it for me.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our final question will be a follow-up from the line of Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys for letting me book in.
I just had one question actually I know it's early on and maybe this one is for Rob.
But do you have a sense of what the opening of the Envoy which I think is an autograph collection asset in Boston does the transient rates that the Westin that's nearby as well as your health in it it's proximate to both and kind of bridges those two markets.
I'm just curious if you think that will maybe helpful to you guys in terms or maybe setting a new sort of high rate in the market or is it going to be a little disruptive? Sorry Jeff this is Rob.
Yes we do believe it'll be - it'll help the market and again opportunistic to allow us to draft similar to the Lexington in New York off the Barclays.
I know they don't have much operating data you had but do you have a sense of how well that hotel has been fairing just from what you guys can see? No.
No.
And it's only a $100 million.
Yeah.
We don't have anything at this point.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And it does conclude our question-and-answer period.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Mark Brugger for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you in next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
And you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the DiamondRock Hospitality Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference may be recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host of today’s call Mr.
Brett Stewart you may begin.
Thank you Tania.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's third quarter 2015 earnings call and webcast.
Before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law and may not be historical fact.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
In addition as management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliations to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
With me on today's call is Mark Brugger our President and Chief Executive Officer; Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Chief Investment Officer.
This morning Mark will provide a brief overview of our third quarter results as well as provide an update on the company's outlook for the rest of 2015.
Sean will then provide greater detail on our third quarter performance and discuss our recent capital markets activities.
Following their remarks we will open the line for questions.
With that I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Brett.
Good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that we remain constructive on the lodging cycle despite an increasingly uneven operating environment.
For the Industry third quarter Industry RevPAR growth was a strong 5.9% despite a difficult comp relative to third quarter 2014 growth of 9.2%.
The macro supply picture remains accommodating with new hotel supply only exceeding the historic average in two of the last 14 years.
The demand corollaries we watch are mixed.
GDP growth of 1.5% was subpar and corporate profits are being weighed down by the energy sector.
But consumer sentiment remains elevated and employments are trending well.
For DiamondRock the portfolio base is difficult comparison to our record quarter last year in which the portfolio delivered an outstanding 18.6% RevPAR increase.
Moreover we knew this third quarter will be challenging with weak citywide calendars in our markets.
The quarter was also impacted by the late Labor Day holiday and the change in the Jewish holidays.
For the third quarter DiamondRock’s pro forma RevPAR increased 2.2%.
Excluding the impact from the brand transition at The Gwen our pro forma RevPAR grew 3% which was in line with the lower end of our guidance.
We actually saw excellent demand growth in our transient segment with transient revenues up 7.6%.
Business transient demand was especially strong with revenue growth of 9.5% while leisure demand was also solid with revenues growing 7.7% for this segment.
The group segment however laid down the portfolio as group revenue declined 7.2%.
Importantly though our asset management best practices were a bright spot.
As a result of the teams hard work we were effective in driving most of each incremental dollar revenue to the bottom line as we achieved house profit flow-through of 74% and house profit margin growth of 94 basis points during the quarter.
Because of the strong flow-through DiamondRock was able to increase pro forma corporate adjusted EBITDA by approximately 6% despite a difficult demand period.
There are two items negatively impacting the quarter results that are worth noting.
First results were significantly impacted by greater than expected disruption from the conversion of the Conrad Chicago to The Gwen.
This disruption reduced third quarter RevPAR by almost 1 percentage point and held back EBITDA margin expansion by 53 basis points.
Excluding this impact our pro forma RevPAR growth would have been 3% and pro forma adjusted EBITDA margins would have been 92 basis points.
While transitions are often difficult during initial ramp up we have a great plan in place for the hotel and expect double digit growth RevPAR growth next year.
Second we were hit with a larger than expected property tax increase at the Chicago Marriott.
The new assessment reduced EBITDA in the quarter by $1.1 million and held back EBITDA margin expansion by 47 basis points.
We are appealing this assessment.
Now let me provide you a brief update on our New York City assets which have continued to outperform the market.
Navigating successfully through a challenging environment our New York City hotels excluding the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square for the period it was not opened last year finished the quarter with RevPAR growth of 2.3%.
Our New York City hotels have outperformed Manhattan market every quarter this year.
Importantly the new Hilton Garden Inn Times Square is still on track to generate a healthy 9% EBITDA yield this year on our investment.
The markets in our outperformance were consistent with our expectations and underscore our confidence in our New York City portfolio.
Now let me turn the call over to Sean to discuss our third quarter results and our capital markets activities in more detail.
Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our third quarter results please note that our reported RevPAR and margin data are presented on a pro forma basis to include the Shorebreak Hotel and Sheraton Suites Key West as if they were owned for all periods presented and only include the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square Central for September since it opened September 01 2014.
Our hotels operated in a challenging environment during the third quarter as a result of the holiday shift and lack of group base which contributed to our portfolio generating modest 2.2% RevPAR growth.
The RevPAR growth was driven by an average rate increase of 3.2% which was partially offset by 0.8 percentage point reduction in occupancy.
It is worth noting that the total revenue growth of 3% exceeded our RevPAR growth as a result of the additional revenues generated from the new rooms at the Boston Helton and the 4.2% growth in food and beverage and other revenues.
Our aggressive asset management initiatives led to excellent third quarter flow-through of 74% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 39 basis points.
The margin expansion was held by higher than expected transition disruption at The Gwen and the unforecasted increase in the Chicago Marriott property tax assessment.
Excluding these two items the hotel adjusted EBITDA margins would have expanded close to 140 basis points.
For the year-to-date period ended September 30 the company reported pro forma RevPAR growth of 5.2% which was the result of a 4.3% increase in the average rate and a 0.7 percentage point increase in occupancy.
Year-to-date hotel adjusted EBITDA margins have expanded by 114 basis points.
The third quarter benefited from 9.5% revenue growth from the business transient segment which represents the highest quarterly growth so far this year and an acceleration from the 5.5% second quarter growth.
Business transient was led by the Boston Westin the Chicago Marriott and at Lexington Hotel with business transient revenue growth of 34% 26% and 15% respectively.
As expected our group segment was challenged this quarter with revenue declining 7.2%.
Although we are never satisfied with revenue declines the group segment was above expectations as group pace was down 13% at the beginning of the quarter.
The outperformance was the result of picking up $6.4 million of in the quarter for the quarter group revenues which was 50% above the pickup from the same time last year.
A stronger pickup was led by the Minneapolis Hilton Lexington Hotel and Worthington Renaissance.
Finally the 5.7% growth in leisure transient revenues was modestly below expectations which assume the continuation of robust leisure transient revenue growth which grew 14% during the first half of the year.
This segment was negatively impacted by the third quarter’s challenged holiday pattern which was most impactful to August and early September.
Additionally food and beverage results exceeded our expectation this quarter achieving 4.2% top line growth that coupled with tight cost controls resulted in over 360 basis points of margin expansion and 119% profit flow-through.
Despite group challenges in the quarter banquet and catering outperformance was the primary driver in F&amp;B where banquet and catering revenues increased more than 10% and margins grew over 460 basis points.
In addition group spend on F&amp;B and audio visual increased over 26% during the quarter which we believe is a sign of group confidence.
Moreover our portfolio continues to benefit from recent ROI projects.
The new rooms at the Boston Helton generated a $121 rate premium in the quarter which continue to exceed our expectation.
At the Chicago Marriott the first phase of renovated rooms commanded a $50 rate premium which also exceeded expectations.
In addition to the transition disruption at The Gwen that Mark discussed our third quarter results were impacted by two additional items.
First property taxes at the Chicago Marriott were impacted by a 33% increase in the asset value which was significantly above guidance expectations.
We recorded a third quarter adjustment of $1.1 million to true up the year-to-date 2015 property tax expense which negatively impacted third quarter hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expansion by 47 basis points.
As Mark mentioned we have already started the appeal process.
Second early in the fourth quarter we received a 15-year extension of the Frenchman's Reef income tax agreement which is retroactive to February.
Under GAAP a retroactive impact of the extension cannot be recorded until the fourth quarter.
While the timing of the benefit does not impact full year income taxes it did impact the third quarter which resulted in our third quarter tax provision being $1.1 million higher than guidance.
Turning to New York the operating environment in the city continues to be challenging but we remain confident in the positioning of our New York portfolio.
Third quarter revenue growth for our New York portfolio was 2.3% which outperformed the Manhattan market RevPAR growth by over 200 basis points.
The Lexington Hotel which represents close to half of our New York portfolio outperformed the market with third quarter RevPAR growth of 2.7%.
Our manager change at the Hilton Garden Inn Chelsea began to take hold as the hotel significantly outperformed the market during the quarter achieving 12.2% RevPAR growth and gaining close to 8 percentage points of market share.
Finally the Hilton Garden Inn Times Square which represents over a quarter of our New York portfolio is continuing to ramp up and is currently tracking ahead of underwriting.
Before turning the call back over to Mark I would like to touch on our balance sheet.
After the recent financing activity we are very close to completing our initiative to reduce borrowing costs extend and stager our maturity schedule and expand our pool of unencumbered hotels.
Recent financing successes include financing the Boston Westin with a new $205 million ten year mortgage bearing interest at a fixed rate of 4.36%.
We intend to use the proceeds from the Boston Westin loan to prepay the $203 million Chicago Marriott mortgage loan which is prepayable without penalty in January 2016 refinancing the Renaissance Worthington with a new $85 million ten year mortgage bearing interest at a fixed rate of 3.66% refinancing the JW Marriott at Cherry Creek with a new $65 million ten year mortgage bearing interest at a fixed rate of 4.33% and have or will increase our encumbered hotel pool by prepaying the Frenchman's Reef Marriott Orlando Airport Marriott and Chicago Marriott mortgages.
We are extremely pleased with the success of our refinancing initiatives.
During 2015 we have refinanced over $350 million of 5.8% interest rate debt with new ten year fixed rate debt bearing interest at approximately 4.2% resulting in annual interest rate savings of approximately $5.8 million.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
Now I will turn to our outlook for the remainder of the year.
We have updated our full year guidance to incorporate third quarter results including the impact of The Gwen transition and property taxes at the Chicago Marriott.
We not expect full year RevPAR growth to range from 4.25% to 5.00% we expect full year adjusted corporate EBITDA to range from $264 million to $269 million and we expect full year adjusted FFO per share to range from $1.00 to $1.02.
In October I’ll note that our portfolio RevPAR came in just under 4% including continued impact from The Gwen ramp up and the impact from the thousand year store on the Charleston hotel.
Our full year hotel adjusted EBITDA margins are projected to increase by more than 100 basis points which is in line with our expectations at the beginning of the year as asset management continues to be laser focused on profit flow-through.
Lastly before I open it up for questions let me note that yesterday we announced that our board of directors has authorized a $150 million share repurchase program.
We will take it opportunistic approach and believe this can be an important value creation tool.
We would now be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo your line is open.
Good morning guys.
And I think a lot of our questions are answered actually last evening so I just had a few follow-ups.
Mark I guess the first question I have is on resorts what’s the outlook you guys are seeing in Q4 and Q1 for your resort properties in St.
Thomas and Vail.
St.
Thomas was impacted in the third quarter by two storms and so obviously that’s why we have to make it a 5% RevPAR in the quarter.
Rob I’ll let you talk a little bit more about the trends we are seeing the Virgin Island as well as in Vail.
Sure.
Jeff in St.
Thomas we are seeing a bit of softening associated with the property the Vail is holding steady and we believe our first quarter looks strong especially from a group perspective for those two hotels.
And just when you say softening in St.
Thomas do you think it’s the lingering effects of the storm or do you think it’s something that we’ve seen across all the Virgin Island as we look into 2016? [indiscernible] is airfare and opportunity for getting into the island.
And may be just a follow-up question for you Rob is on booking channels.
I am just curious if you have good visibility into what the trend has been on the component of your bookings that are coming now from third-party online channels such as like a TripAdvisor versus traditional channels you’ve guys have used in the past are you seeing a rapid or significant change there? Jeff not at this point.
Thanks guys.
And our next question comes from Anthony Powell of Barclays your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just on the share repurchase program here a number of your peers are becoming more aggressive in their share buyback activity.
What’s your view on maybe you’re doing buybacks a bit more quickly than you have in the recent past? Good morning Anthony.
This is Mark.
Our perspective on share repurchase is it’s a valuable tool.
I think we’re going to be very thoughtful.
I am not sure this is the right time in this cycle to significantly increase leverage at the company.
Obviously if there is dispositions that freeze up capacity to do repurchases without changing the leverage of the company and then we’re going to continue to monitor obviously a lot volatility in the stock prices and we think we are trading well below NAV but we’re going to continue to monitor that.
Got it thanks.
And on your group pace did you mention how you’re tracking for next year and in terms of group rooms booked and also the number of rooms booked in revenues? Obviously for the third quarter it was very challenging.
The fourth quarter we are seeing a pickup in group were up about 6%.
Next year it’s a little bit all over the board we are just getting the budget now we are looking at pace.
So it’s roughly flat but we hope that more of that comes together in the next couple of months.
Got it.
I guess one follow-up on that is I guess Chicago will probably be down next year in terms of group but didn’t looked at kind of this city-by-city group outlook for next year that would be great.
Sure.
Good morning.
So for DC we have – it’s a strong convention calendar there for both 2016 and 2017 it’s up to 19% those two years.
So we feel very good about DC.
Boston is going to have similar room night at 2015 with six more citywide they are down in the first quarter about 20% and then very strong calendar in 2017 it’s about up 24% room nights.
And Chicago as you mentioned had a soft citywide calendar especially during the first half of the year which is down by 10% and Minneapolis is also down a 4% in 2016 though there is no citywides in Q1 as compared to same time last year but it is a very strong Q3 again looks extremely strong which is up 29%.
Denver is down 8% in 2016 Salt Lake City is also going to have a down year as well and then San Diego is going to be up 46% next year which we are very encouraged by it.
All right.
That’s it from me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next call comes from Chris Woronka of Deutsche Bank your line is open.
I guess congratulations on some of the F&amp;B initiatives you got definitely really impressive margin performance.
And I want to ask you how do you feel about the sustainability of that whether new things that went into effect this quarter that can last you through next year or is there some kind of maybe exogenous items this quarter? Chris it’s Rob.
This is a continuation of our program which we are thrilled about.
We really look at how we menu engineering throughout our hotels and combining our banquet menus with our food and beverage outlet menus.
In Chicago in particular we opened up a grab-and-go pantry which has been very very successful and essentially we’ve minimized our room service program revenues for the quarter our cash rate in Chicago for example for the quarter was up $1.77 per occupied room.
It generated an incremental $142 000 of revenue but our profit was up over $300 000.
So it’s programs like that and how we are looking at everything.
At our Shorebreak hotel we’ve really seen an opportunity to reduce our food cost by looking how we purchase and have been very very successful.
And then our beverage program has been very successful throughout the portfolio we’ve had over 360 types of reduction in our beverage cost for the quarter so we see that continuing as we move forward.
And Chris one more hotel to add to that Fort Lauderdale where we’ve totally reconcepted the food and beverage operations down there a data point there.
So in the third quarter our revenues were down $500 000 in F&amp;B for that hotel for the quarter but profit was up $300 000 and that’s all a result of our efforts to eliminate the Charlotte franchise that was there on the past and to reconcept that in-house and that’s been very successful for us and we continue that to continue.
Great.
And then I guess a question for Sean.
Chicago has certainly made some headlines this quarter in the earrings release with property tax but as you guys look out to next year I know it’s kind of tough but is this going to be more a theme more broadly do you think that the assessments are going to keep going up and up in more cities and you’ll have to going through the appeals.
Yeah.
Chris I think property taxes generally move with the cycle and what we’ve seen over the last three years is pretty steady increases across a lot of our jurisdictions of property taxes.
Chicago is unique in the sense of there is a triennial assessment and the Chicago Marriott which had renovation activity triggered a pretty significant increase in the assessment of the 33%.
But we believe that 2015 is essentially big than what we expect the run rate to be.
Hopefully we’re going to be successful in the appeal that we’ve started.
We’ve had success there in the past but we think Chicago is fully baked in and then other cities to a great extent we’ve seen property taxes reset over the last couple of years.
So if we look forward we wouldn’t anticipate really significant increases year-over-year.
Okay great.
And then just finally for me as you look over the portfolio you’ve obviously made the change in Chicago with The Gwen.
Are there any other franchise or management the company changes you see on the horizon going forward? Chris this is Mark.
The only one that we are evaluating now is in Key West we bought the Sheraton Suites and so we are looking at in the next two years not changing the manager but potentially covering that potentially to attribute or to an independent so that’s one that we are still evaluating.
Okay very good.
Thanks guys.
And our next question comes from Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisor your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Some of your peers have noted an increase in cancellation activity over the last couple of months.
I am just curious if you guys are seeing that as well? Luke this is Mark.
So cancellations in the third quarter were up a little bit.
We did about 900 000 third quarter of last year we did about a 1.01 million this third quarter so it’s up incrementally.
We will continue to keep an eye on it.
I wouldn’t say that we are particularly worried about it right now but certainly it’s one of the things we’re going to stay focused on and watch very carefully.
That’s helpful.
And then given the discount to NAV I’m just curious are you guys contemplating asset sales at all.
As a policy we don’t comment on asset sales until they are consummated.
But there seems to be a scene of disconnect between NAV and the public stock prices.
So clearly that’s on our radar screen.
And then the buyback plan if you were to use it should we expect that you would fund it through the sale of assets or would you be looking at using other sources? Lukas it’s obviously depended on where the stock price goes over the next several months so that’s a claim driver but we are less likely to take a leverage significantly this part of the cycle than to fund it with asset sales.
Great that’s it from me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Austin Wurschmidt of KeyBanc Capital Markets your line is open.
Hi good morning.
I was just curious Sean if you could talk a little bit you guys previously had mentioned targeting leverage three times by 2016 is that still a target that you’re shooting for? Yes.
We are on track for that for next year.
Okay thanks.
And then just a clarification what was the $1 million of lease preparation cost that’s now in the guidance reconciliation? So that cost that we’re going to incur in the fourth quarter primarily related to the basement space of our Lexington Hotel in New York.
We need to make that wide space in order to prepare that to lease to a new third party and because there is no lease under GAAP we have to expense as cost.
Fair enough.
And then would you expect any disruption I guess from that or because it’s not a space currently being used.
No there won’t be disruption because its base is separate from the hotel operations and its subterranean and so we don’t anticipate any impact on the hotel ops.
Okay thanks.
And then just last one from me in the release you guys mentioned $8 million of interest expense savings.
I think on the call today you mentioned $5.8 million if I heard you correctly and then earlier this year you had mentioned potentially $8 million to $12 million from refinancing and I was just curious if you could reconcile those numbers and talk about if there is any other opportunity that can get you to the high-end of that $8 million to $12 million range.
Sure.
Austin the $5.8 million was the direct impact of the financing activity we did in 2015.
The $8 million to $12 million was the result of the financing activity that we’ve done this cycle.
And so after we prepay Chicago our weighted average cost of debt is going to be about 4% slightly over 4% and we’re going to have roughly $1 billion of debt compared to our weighted average cost which was around 5.3% or 5.4% at the beginning of the cycle also at a similar level of debt at about $ billion.
And so the cumulative interest rate savings that which is where the $8 million to $12 million comes in is really the change in our weighted average interest rate sort of where we started the cycle where we are today versus where we’re going to be after we prepay Chicago on a comparable debt level.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Smedes Rose of Citi your line is open.
Hi thanks.
I wanted to ask you maybe if you could just talk a little bit about what do you see on the supply side for next year and we know in Chicago there is at least several new hotels coming on it seems like cities like Charleston have a huge spike in new supply maybe you can just kind of touch on some of the markets you are in.
So Troy why don’t you take that question? Sure hi Smedes.
This is Troy.
As you quoted Chicago is obviously seeing an uptick in supply of about 2% to 4% depending on whether you are talking about CBD or MSA.
Similarly Boston has about 3% to 4% of supply increases.
New York City is obviously getting the high profile anywhere from 5% to 7% supply increases but New York City is still look at some markets where we are predominantly in the Times Square and in the East Midtown area.
East Midtown is getting very little supply Times Square I’m going to give you a little bit more.
I think you look at the rest of our portfolio the Boston Chicago New York San Diego is getting the highest profile but markets like Fort Worth Vail Key West Salt Lake City Orlando San Francisco those are all 1% supply growth.
So we are happy about that but we’ve got a lot of attention on New York Chicago and Boston at the moment and what that’s doing to the supply dynamic.
Okay thanks.
And then your – some of your room service initiatives at the Chicago Marriott which seem to be helping you drive revenues and reduce costs is that something that you can roll out across more hotels overtime? We are looking at that opportunity with our operating partners and even not just in this large hotels but also in the smaller properties as well.
And we like for example at our DC Western we’ve recently introduced a similar program and in turn that’s been rather successful for the first weeks it’s starting so we are starting to getting traction on that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Meliker of Canaccord your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
First of all nice job on the margins in the quarter I thought they were great.
Rob I’m wondering do you feel like most of the low hanging fruit that you came in with where you saw some quick easy opportunities to boost margins is now played out or do you think there is still some more of that type of margin growth opportunity? Ryan we believe that there is additional margin growth opportunity our team is heavily involved with our operating partners working with them on a daily basis and out in the field with them.
So yes you’re right there is not much low hanging fruit but we think in partnership with our teams we find additional opportunities each and every time we meet with them and speak to them on the phone.
Okay that’s good color.
Thanks.
And then I wanted to talk a little about I guess your investment capacity and how you plan to use that.
Seems like with your target leverage of three times for 2016 you do have a considerable amount of investment capacity remaining are you currently in the market looking at deals? Is there anything that you think is close and how do you marry acquisitions versus that $150 million stock buyback that you just put in place? Yeah Ryan.
This is Mark it’s a great question.
So I would say we’re always talking about cost of capital and always looking at our cost of capital.
In fact we were close on two deals in the Pacific Northwest recently but each of our cost of capital change walked away from those deals and there is about $300 000 of deal cost in our numbers this year.
We are always evaluating opportunities in the marketplace.
Just the cost of capital and were the stock is versus where we think the NAV of our company is makes it very difficult to execute that right now.
Okay.
So then I guess you’ve probably sit tight unless the stock moves higher you’re more likely to sit tight on your investment capacity for the time being and if that does move higher you might be more accusative it was lower you might be more accusative in the stock repurchase is that a fair way to think about it? Yeah I think we’re going to be opportunistic on both sides.
Now it’s possible we could find a deal that is such a screaming home run that we would be interesting to do but I don’t – those are very very hard to find.
NAV accretion is easier to accomplish right now buying stock than as to buy assets in the marketplace.
Excellent okay.
And then just the last thing I wanted to just I guess clarify a little bit in your prepared remarks you guys talked about really strong business transient trends in the third quarter.
We know that in October things fell off a little bit from that perspective.
Your 4Q guidance sounds like indicates a bit of a persistence of that October trend rather than what you’ve seen year-to-date and then 3Q is that correct? Ryan I think that’s our takeaway.
As we are extrapolating October we don’t – we want to give our investors our current thinking and so we think the prudent thing to do right now is just kind of assume that what we see in October and there is some delays in there but basically that those trends persist for the balance of the year and that’s how we’ve build our forecast in our perspective.
Gotcha.
So then if business transient trends revert back to what we saw through the first few months of the year as oppose to October similar to what we just saw the unemployment numbers that just came out then there is upside is that correct? Yeah business transient turns out to be better than we are anticipating there would be upside in our guidance.
Great that’s all from me.
Thanks.
Thank you Ryan.
And our next question comes from Bill Crow of Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
One housekeeping question first and then a bigger picture question.
Troy what was the – what is your supply outlook for DC? I don’t think you mentioned that one.
For DC we are looking at the CBD of about 1% to 2% and for the greater MSA closer to 2% to 4%.
Okay great.
Bigger question guys you are not the first ones that have had deals teed up over the summer that you walked away from rates have gone from being the predominant buyers.
Now it seems like everybody has identified non-core assets for sale to fund buybacks and other things.
And I guess we’ve had the Asian buyers pull back a little bit in August maybe into September and it looks like the Fed is getting ready to hike.
So my question is what are you seeing hearing from brokers on cap rates because it’s – we are all looking at NAV and certainly you are from a buyback perspective but you start moving cap rates 25 basis points or 50 basis points it makes a difference so where have we transitioned? Two what’s the trend look like? Thanks.
Yeah Bill.
It’s Troy.
There is not hard data on cap rate change more anecdotal and sort of what you hear from brokers speak but I would tell you that brokers are sending messages of softness and pricing a bit and that couple of things had been retraded recently have come off price by maybe 5% but it’s hard to quantify that.
And then there has been some high profile deals that just didn’t close and you expect that will come out a lower price.
So we are seeing a little bit of directional comments from brokers who have come back at lowering price but it’s hard to – it’s really hard to quantify that at this point.
Would your best guess be 25 bips 50 bips somewhere in that range? Too little data points to formulate a trend line yet.
Okay that’s it from me.
Thanks.
Thank you Bill.
And our next question comes from Ian Weissman of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi guys Chris for Ian.
Just going back to funding this potential share purchases I know you don’t talk much about acquisitions but if you were to I mean dispositions you were to do any dispositions would that be more to lower your exposure to New York or will it be able to take advantage of the strong for the suburban lower RevPAR assets.
Chris this is Mark.
That’s a great question.
So I think we look at both ways so obviously we’re always trying to look at our growth prospect but we are also trying to take advantage of where they may be discrepancies and what we think are the long term growth potential and asset values versus what a potential buyer may see and we are trying to play that difference or that vig if you will.
So for some of the non-core assets obviously that would raise our average RevPAR and then may increase our growth prospect and be more of the company wanting more NAV accretion of the next 3 to 5 years.
On the flip side New York we love our where we are located in New York those are great assets and great locations.
We think NAV there is still a strong bid in that market and we think over the next 10 years that will certainly be a good place to have the capital allocated.
It is challenging in the next year or two.
So we’re having these discussions now.
So it could be either I would say we’re in continued dialogue on there.
Got you.
And then secondly lowering the RevPAR guidance maybe almost 200 basis points maybe on a full year basis maybe The Gwen accounts for what about 50 basis points I guess there is some storm stuff in there and then little bit weaker trends can you kind of break us down in terms of how do you get to that 187.5 lower RevPAR growth guidance and then how do we also think about pre-announcements how do you guys think about and when on a go forward basis? Yes I will take the pre-announcement one first and maybe Sean can jump in on some of the math and how we get to the change in guidance.
So preannouncement's are we’re always trying to give our investors our best perspective as soon as we can on what’s going on in the marketplace.
What we saw in the third quarter was actually it started off relatively strong.
August was disappointing and then we actually saw September starting relatively strong.
The Gwen transitioned on September 1 so obviously that kind of happened during the month of September and into October.
If you looked at where we are absent The Gwen we were with the within our range to 3% to 5% RevPAR growth for the quarter.
And so our opinion was we wanted to have the best data and a complete set on how the fourth quarter was shaping up to including our October results before we kind of came out with a comprehensive deal on what was going on for the balance of the year.
So based on our judgment it may sense to wait till that October data came out and do with on this call.
Sean do you want to walk through the math on some of the changes? Sure.
So it was roughly 190 basis points of RevPAR change about 60 basis points of that was related to The Gwen.
Our October transient trends which we extrapolated after the balance of the year was about 100 basis points of the change and then the balance was from things like the Charleston storm impact.
Some of the incremental storm impact at Frenchman's Reef et cetera but that is the general math.
So the majority of the RevPAR changed related to the fourth quarter and the short-term transient trend in October being extrapolated out to November and December.
That's great and then lastly on The Gwen when you think that's going to be fully stabilized? Our experience on conversions of brand conversions is it generally takes about three years to bring the true value of a brand conversion.
Certainly I experienced at the Lexington especially when you are going from a known commodity and you are reintroducing and branding a software or luxury brand it would be different if we converted and it was a Ritz-Carlton day one.
When you introduce something new you need to get the trial on the ramp up so it is probably about three years to get the full value of the brand conversion.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Anto Savarirajan of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Last quarter you were talking about your expectations for the New York City portfolio and how you expected it to outperform the overall market.
I believe you called out a 3.5% to 5.5% RevPAR for the back half of the year.
Does it still hold? And I understand you still expect to outperformance compared to the broader market.
Just curious as to have your thoughts for the back half of the year have changed for the New York City assets and any leading thoughts into 2016 as well would be greatly appreciated.
Sure this is Mark I will be happy to answer that question.
So New York was under our expectations in August and then September while we did have some good compression certainly good results at the Lexington we would have expected a little bit more super compression from the Pope visit and from the UNG in September.
So I would say it’s mostly before our expectations for the back half of the year for the market.
And then within our portfolio while the Lexington was relatively good and certainly Chelsea with our brand manager change has been exceptional.
The two cohorts that we have in the City there is some transition in the way the revenue management is being done by Marriott that probably costs those hotels to lose a bit of market share.
So I would say those are performing on a little behind our expectations because of that shift in the way that Marriott is doing their revenue management within the city.
Got it.
The past couple of quarters you've spoken about F&amp;B as an opportunity and some of the margins have tracked well - as well on that front.
What is the long-term goalpost here? How should we think about the opportunity on a long term in terms of how margins can be in that business? And if we were to look back at history are we close to achieving what might have been a peak level or is there further room to grow? Essentially how do we think about the opportunity that is still left? It’s a tough question as each hotel presents its own business case.
So I’d say the portfolio is still about a couple hundred basis point behind prior peak but there is a lot of things that are changing within the portfolio while there may be more F&amp;B some of the hotels may have ramping up franchise fees or something else that would make it you know some will be above some will be below.
We don’t so obviously on a macro basis we’re trying to close that couple hundred points of deficit to prior peak but it’s different with each hotel.
I’d say F&amp;B certainly is one of a focus area.
We don’t have a particular goal for F&amp;B every month and every program and every best practice is something that we continue to try to roll out through the portfolio certainly routs to express a lot of optimism in the ability to take some of this successes like Chicago Marriott and roll them out through a number of hotels with our portfolio and we will continue to work hard every day in finding those opportunities and fighting for every dollar.
Thank you.
One last question if I may.
For the past couple of quarters you've given a little bit of a tidbit on how you've seen international travel and how it's been either impactful or not impactful to your portfolio.
Can you give us a read-through for 3Q as well? Sure.
Let me start with by saying the datasets very poor so it’s very hard and the number of the hotels to track who is really international and who is not international what we saw - and across our portfolio a lot of our Marriott properties particularly don’t do a tremendous amount of international business but in New York City what we experience is actually pretty good international demand it was just much more rate sensitive.
So actually our international is up a little bit in New York City but the rate was down for those travelers.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Austin Wurschmidt of KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
Just one quick follow-up.
As you've gone through the refinancing activity this year I was just curious if there's been any changes in the appetite from lenders or if you've seen any changes in sort of underwriting standard spreads leverage etc.? Austin yes what we are seeing is the spreads have widened out throughout the year now the tenures have also moved but what we’re seeing is for larger deals Boston Westin being the most recent loan that we closed.
The number of lenders that could bid on that versus where it would have been probably nine months ago was less.
I mean it was still robust bidding process where we had double digit number of term sheets from lenders but the size certainly was more impactful to some lenders clearly not the bullish bracket.
I think the overall cost of lending over the last nine months has gone up.
If you just look at what we’ve closed Worthington was closed at 3.66% versus 4.36% at the Boston Westin at comparable leverage levels and so what we’ve seen is the leverage levels have not altered dramatically but the cost has gone up because of just the moment in rates.
Great.
Thank you.
And now I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I now like to turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Thank you to everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to seeing many of you at the NAREIT convention in a few weeks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Brett Stewart Vice President of Strategy and Capital Markets.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and welcome to DiamondRock's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call and webcast.
Before we begin I would like to remind participants that many of our comments today are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law and may not be historical fact.
They may not be updated in the future.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainties as described in the company's SEC filings.
In addition as management discusses certain non-GAAP financial measures it may be helpful to review the reconciliations to GAAP set forth in our earnings press release.
With me on today's call is Mark Brugger our President and Chief Executive Officer; Sean Mahoney our Chief Financial Officer; Rob Tanenbaum our Chief Operating Officer; and Troy Furbay our Chief Investment Officer.
This morning Mark will provide a brief overview of our fourth quarter results as well as discuss the company's outlook for 2016.
Sean will then provide greater detail on our fourth quarter performance and discuss our recent capital markets activities.
Following their remarks we will open the line for questions.
With that I will now turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Brett.
Let me start by thanking everyone on this call for joining us today.
We note that this is a time of market dislocation and there are questions about the outlook generally for the industry.
That said based on a careful review of the data our current outlook on lodging fundamentals remains constructive despite recent moderation in transient demand.
The fourth quarter numbers for the industry remain solid by any historical standard with industry RevPAR growth at 4.8% bringing full year 2015 RevPAR growth to 6.3% which is well above the long-term average growth rate of just over 3%.
On the supply side of the equation new hotel supply last year registered only 1.1% growth which is about half the long-term average.
While different markets certainly diverged in results last year the overall lodge industry had a good year.
So where are our fundamentals going now? As we look forward we closely monitor several key economic indicators that traditionally correlate with hotel demand.
In particular we're watching trends in employment consumer confidence [employments] [ph] GDP and corporate profits.
The first three of those indicators are positive and the last two are less encouraging.
Overall the most likely case in our view is for moderating industry RevPAR growth in 2016 probably with a baseline change around 3% to 5%.
However we do expect the top 25 markets collectively to underperform the national average in 2016 because they have a little more supply to contend with.
Now let's turn to DiamondRock.
Our portfolio performed very much in line with our expectations for the fourth quarter.
Pro forma RevPAR increased 3.1% bringing our full year portfolio RevPAR growth to 4.7% excluding The Gwen which experienced rebranding disruption our full year portfolio RevPAR was 5.3% in line with the 5% RevPAR growth for upper upscale hotels in the top 25 markets.
Moreover in 2015 we were able to increase adjusted EBITDA by almost 13% to $265.4 million which was within our original guidance provided to you one year ago today.
For the fourth quarter group demand rebounded and led the portfolio's performance.
The strong group revenue growth of 6.3% helped to offset a slowdown in business transient revenue.
Leisure demand the proverbial third leg of the lodging demand stool was solid with leisure revenues growing almost 4%.
The true highlight for the company in the fourth quarter was the continued successful implementation of DiamondRock's asset management best practices.
Our team was very efficient in driving bottom-line profitability as we achieved impressive house profit flow through of 73% and profit margin growth of 114 basis points during the quarter.
The quarter's profit margin results capped off a strong year for profitability with portfolio pro forma hotel adjusted EBITDA margins of 31.2% a record for DiamondRock and a 113-basis-point increase from the prior year.
We are very pleased with these results as well as the company's overall execution on cost controls.
Now let me turn it over to Sean to discuss our fourth quarter results and our capital markets activities in more details.
Sean? Thanks Mark.
Before discussing our fourth quarter results please note that our reported RevPAR and margin data are presented on a pro forma basis to include the Shorebreak Hotel and Sheraton Suites Key West as if they were owed for all periods presented.
Our hotels performed as we expected in the fourth quarter.
Despite a difficult New York market and choppy business transient demand our hotels outperformed their markets during the quarter gaining 80 basis points of market share on 3.1% RevPAR growth.
The RevPAR growth was driven by increases in both average rate and occupancies up 1% and 1.6% percentage points respectively.
It is important to note that the 4.3% total revenue growth exceeded our RevPAR growth powered by the success of the new rooms at the Boston Hilton and successful strategies to drive food and beverage and other revenues.
Our profit flow through in the fourth quarter was excellent as our asset management initiatives drove our 73% flow through.
Consequently hotel adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 114 basis points.
For the full year the company reported pro forma RevPAR growth of 4.7% driven by a 3.5% increase in the average rate and 0.9 percentage point increase in occupancy.
Full year hotel adjusted EBITDA margins expanded by 113 basis points.
Fourth quarter demand was strong for both group and leisure.
Group revenue growth led all segments in the portfolio with 6.3% growth.
This represents a big turnaround from the 7.2% third quarter decline.
Group was led by the Boston Westin the Minneapolis Hilton and the San Diego Westin with group revenue growth of 28% 50% and 41% respectively.
The recent trend of strong short-term booking activity continued with $3 million of in the quarter for the quarter group revenues a 10% increase compared to the same time last year.
In addition during the fourth quarter we booked $22.7 million in 2016 group revenues which was over 15% more than was booked last year.
Moreover we experienced strong growth in the leisure transient and contract segments with combined revenues growing approximately 6% consistent with our expectations.
The growth was primarily driven by approximately 7% higher demand.
The segment growth was driven by our Boston hotels the San Diego Westin and the Washington DC Westin.
Finally as expected our business segment was the only challenging segment during the fourth quarter with revenue declining 1.6% which was the result of a soft corporate demand environment as evidenced by the anemic fourth quarter GDP growth.
Fourth quarter food and beverage results exceeded our expectations once again achieving 6.3% top-line growth.
Coupled with tight cost controls this resulted in 270 basis points of margin expansion and 77% profit flow through.
Banquet outperformance was the primary driver in F&amp;B.
Banquet and catering revenues increased more than 10% and margins grew over 200 basis points.
In addition group spend on F&amp;B and audiovisual increased over 11% during the quarter.
We believe this elevated spending by meeting planners is a sign of growing group confidence.
Other bright spots for DiamondRock in the quarter are the results from our recent ROI projects.
I will mention just two.
The new rooms at the Boston Hilton generated a $66 rate premium in the quarter which continue to exceed our expectations.
At the Chicago Marriott the first phase of renovated rooms from last winter commanded a $30 rate premium which exceeded expectations and bodes well for the additional 460 rooms being upgraded this winter.
However our fourth quarter results were held back by a rebranding disruption at The Gwen Chicago and our New York City hotels.
Excluding these hotels our fourth quarter portfolio RevPAR growth would have been 6% and hotel adjusted EBITDA margins would have expanded 376 basis points.
Let me provide a little more detail on those two areas.
First as expected the brand transition disruption at The Gwen negatively impacted the fourth quarter.
The hotel is starting to gain traction with corporate accounts and we feel good about the stabilized prospects for the hotel.
The renovation will be transformative and position the hotel among the best in Chicago.
The arrival area lobby and restaurant are being renovated this winter and are scheduled to reopen in May.
Second while demand in New York City was solid increasing supply led to 2.8% RevPAR contraction in the upper upscale luxury segment.
We are proud that our New York hotels outperformed in the fourth quarter by approximately 130 basis points.
Before turning the call back over to Mark I would like to touch on our balance sheet.
Prudent balance sheet management and conservative leverage have been a cornerstone of DiamondRock's strategy for over a decade.
In 2015 we were able to further bolster our balance sheet by reducing borrowing costs extending and staggering our maturity schedule and expanding our pool of unencumbered hotels.
During 2015 we successfully completed $355 million of new financings which contributed to three big advantages for DiamondRock.
First the interest rates on the new loans are approximately 150 basis points below the maturing rates.
With this we have opportunistically lowered our average borrowing costs from 5.6% in 2011 to 4.1% today which has reduced our annual interest expense by over $14 million or $0.07 per share.
Second we have carefully constructed one of the best maturity profiles among our lodging REIT peers with an average maturity of approximately seven years and only one small debt maturity in 2016.
Third we were able to move financings among hotels to increase the number of unencumbered hotels.
Our unencumbered pool now stands at 18 of our 29 hotels.
These unencumbered hotels alone generated $157.6 million of hotel adjusted EBITDA during 2015.
These free and clear hotels form a strong backbone of the company's valuation.
Even with this strong capital structure we plan to further improve our balance sheet in 2016 by one addressing our one maturity two potentially recasting and increasing our corporate revolver and three evaluating dispositions of non-core assets.
We will provide an update on the progress of these initiatives on our next call.
I will now turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Sean.
Now I will turn to a more detailed discussion of our outlook for 2016.
As I mentioned at the top of this call we expect industry to have RevPAR growth of 3% to 5% with the top 25 markets underperforming those numbers.
For DiamondRock we expect our portfolio to generate full year 2016 RevPAR growth in the range of 2% to 4%.
We expect our RevPAR growth to be below the industry average because of our concentration in top 25 markets particularly the New York and Chicago markets.
Let me talk about those markets.
New York; New York is expected to be challenging in 2016 because of new hotel supply probably around 6.5% growth.
Our guidance supplies New York market RevPAR as flat to marginally negative in 2016.
We do expect our hotels to continue to outperform the market by approximately 100 basis points in 2016.
Chicago; Chicago will be challenged during the first half of 2016 because of the citywide group calendar which is down mid teens in room nights and particularly weak early in the year.
However our Chicago Marriott is likely to outperform the market in 2016.
2016 group pace at the Chicago Marriott is up close to 3% with over 75% of the rooms already booked.
After getting through the soft first quarter group pace for the last three quarters of the year is up 8.6% which should significantly outperform the market.
Our Chicago results will also be impacted by the transition disruption at The Gwen Chicago which will continue through the first half of 2016 as a result of the hotel ramping up during a period with low citywide activity.
We do expect strong growth at The Gwen in the back half of the year.
While our full year RevPAR guidance is for 2% to 4% growth we do expect our first quarter RevPAR to be modestly negative driven by a holiday shift and the spread of citywide events in our markets.
Easter comes into the first quarter this year and is expected to negatively impact our March results but benefit our April results.
Group activity for the first quarter is weak in our three largest group markets of Chicago Boston and Minneapolis.
Accordingly first quarter group revenues are expected to be down in the mid-single digits.
However group is expected to significantly improve after the first quarter.
Our group pace is up 4.5% for the second through fourth quarters.
Now based on our full year RevPAR growth expectations we are guiding as follows.
Full year adjusted corporate EBITDA is expected to range from $265 million to $270 million and full year adjusted FFO per share is expected to range from $1.04 to $1.09.
Lastly before we open up for questions let me address our capital allocation strategy as we navigate the current capital markets.
Since the beginning of the year we have continued to see a further disconnect between hotel values and lodging stock valuations.
We firmly believe that we are currently trading a significant discount to NAV into replacement costs.
As a result we are carefully evaluating opportunities to create shareholder value by strategically selling non-core assets and redeploying those proceeds into accretive share repurchases.
As you may recall our Board of Directors authorized a $150 million share repurchase program last quarter.
Note that we have been in a blackout period since the end of our last fiscal quarter on December 31 and have not yet repurchased any shares under this program to date As I mentioned our preferred source of funding share repurchases will be from proceeds of asset sales.
The transaction market stay is still active and we are exploring several potential candidates.
As you know it is our policy not to comment on deals until they have closed.
So to sum up in 2016 you should expect DiamondRock to remain laser focused on operations and to actively explore value creation opportunities through capital allocation.
With that we would now be happy to answer any questions that you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Ryan Meliker from Canaccord Genuity.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
I wanted to talk a little bit about margins for 2016.
You guys obviously had a great 2015 in terms of margin growth.
I am wondering how many more levers you guys have to pull especially looking at 2% to 4% RevPAR growth.
What are your underlying expectations for margins and I guess where could you be right or wrong to the upside or downside there? Thanks Ryan.
This is Sean.
I think we as you know didn't give specific margin guidance for 2016 because of the sensitivity of those numbers relative to where the relative RevPAR is.
I will give you some color on 2016 operating costs where we expect to increase anywhere from 3% to slightly over 3% in 2016 which compares to about call it 3.5% in 2015.
And so within those numbers we believe our operating costs will continue to come in below that at both food and beverage as well as rooms and support costs offset by slightly higher property taxes as well as ramping franchise fees as well as management fees within the portfolio.
But overall we expect our costs to go up roughly call it 3% to slightly more than 3% in 2016.
When you look at how we performed in 2015 we were able to get strong margin expansion in a relatively moderate RevPAR growth environment.
We would hope that we would be able to continue to do that but we just -- as we look into 2016 we weren't able to provide specific numbers around that guidance.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then as we look at the game plan for 2016 which you guys along with others seems to be sell assets and buy back stock with the proceeds obviously the stocks including yours are trading at a pretty big discount to what most of us believe the net asset values are.
How willing are you to fund those repurchases with your balance sheet in advance of selling assets? Hey Ryan.
This is Mark.
That's a great question.
Obviously we're looking at a number of dispositions right now.
I think once the dispositions we have greater certainty that we think they are going to close we are going to be more apt obviously to buy.
I think to lever up the company to repurchase the share price has to be even lower than it would be if we were just recycling the capital from dispositions.
Okay.
That's what I wanted to know.
Thanks.
Appreciate the color.
Thank you Ryan.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Hightower with Evercore.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
So just to circle back on the non-core dispositions comments from earlier I know that you're probably not going to give us much color on the individual cap rates or the individual assets that you are penciling in for this but could you give us a sense of where you think the spread might be between private market cap rates and then what the public markets are implicitly valuing the portfolio at today? Yes Rich it really depends on the assets.
So if you look at San Francisco and New York probably have the lowest cap rates and the most amount of capital still chasing those markets.
So we would expect the largest disconnect in those markets compared to where the stock is trading today.
So our strategy is a little bit of a barbell strategy which is to look at sometimes where the largest gap is but also it provides an opportunity to accretively potentially recycle some of what we call our non-core assets our lowest RevPAR assets and upgrade the quality of the company and redeploy those into share repurchases and come out on the other side as the better company.
So we are looking at it we kind of think about the barbell both sides of that equation create value for our shareholders.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
And then second question back to the margin expansion and expense control topic it does sound like a lot of the success on that front came on the F&amp;B side in 2015 if I am not mistaken in saying that.
And I am just wondering if there were any sort of one-time factors contributing to that last year such as leasing out restaurant space things like that that might be more one-time in nature than what might be considered a sort of sustainable ongoing cost control strategy? Rich.
This is Rob Tanenbaum.
Good morning.
We looked at several -- several of our hotels we looked at leasing out our restaurants.
More specifically at our Westin Fort Lauderdale we terminated a franchise agreement with Shula's and brought that operation in-house.
We saved over $400 000 in franchise fees alone.
At our Charleston Renaissance we leased out a restaurant.
We had about 400 basis points of margin improvement through that as well.
At our Chicago Marriott we added a grab-and-go concept which has saved several hundred basis points as well.
And we see that continuing because that started -- we haven't hit the full ramp-up there.
But as we look at the portfolio throughout 2016 we are going to look at other grab-and-go opportunities with our operating partners.
So we believe there is additional upside there.
That's helpful Rob.
Thank you.
So I mean I guess it is fair to say that a lot of that is still in ramp-up as you say but maybe by 2017 or a year or two from now that effect would start to normalize in terms of what gets flow through FFO for instance.
That would be correct.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And our next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley with Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
This is actually Dany Asad on for Shaun.
I really appreciate the extra color you gave us on the pro forma numbers ex-New York and The Gwen for the fourth quarter.
So I guess my question would be are you able to give us a comparable pro forma number for 2016 or like basically what's your outlook outside of those assets that have had a negative impact in the fourth quarter? In simplest terms we expect our Chicago assets to outperform the Chicago market which -- and again we expect the Chicago market to be a little bit below the industry average.
But we will probably come within the industry average in Chicago.
So it's really New York that will hold us back a little bit although we expect to outperform by about 100 basis points there.
In simplest terms figure New York is holding back our overall RevPAR guidance in 2016 by about 100 basis points.
Great.
Okay.
That's it for me.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Mark on dispositions how do you think about selling off maybe a joint venture interest in some of your I guess I will call them core hotels either those in New York or Boston just to reduce market exposure but bringing the capital partner too? Yes.
It is a great question.
It's one we have had a lot of internal dialogue on.
One of the things DiamondRock has always prided itself is having the simplest capital structure and simplest balance sheet in the industry.
And so while joint ventures may be interesting I think our bias is towards simplicity for our investors and to understand the company.
It's certainly an option.
If the cost of capital is better for our shareholders it's something we are going to look at.
I think our preference -- and not exclusionary but our preference would be a wholesale and to redeploy those capital -- that capital back into the shares.
Maybe it's a different form of sort of slicing the onion or whatever.
But what ability do you have maybe to sell non-hotel assets that might be overlooking your portfolio or even interest such as ground leases in your hotels or maybe a condominium interest in -- like ground-floor retail particularly in your New York assets? I know it's a form of maybe call it bringing in a partner or complexifying your assets but are those options available to you guys? Yes.
So I consider those different than joint ventures that are relatively simple to execute simple for our investors to understand.
We are looking at some retail potentially and we are looking at some ground lease options although it does come with complexity.
So we are evaluating that versus kind of wholesale dispositions of the assets and trying to figure out the best way to create value.
And on -- just I'm thinking about your share repurchases.
When the size of the $150 million authorization was made in November of 2015 did that at the time contemplate future asset sales? I guess I'm just trying to figure out if any incremental sales from this point somewhat translate directly to incremental repurchase capacity.
The way we talked about with the Board one the $150 million -- we meet with our Board quarterly so we can always change it or change it in between the quarter if that's appropriate given the change in circumstance.
But the way we think about the share repurchases there is a price we want to buy back our stock if we sell an asset and there is a lower price we would buy back our stock if we were just using incremental leverage.
So we always want to be prepared for both of those but we have kind of a different target number depending on how we are funding the repurchase.
And is it fair to say that your 2016 guidance does not contemplate any specific asset sales or share repurchases? That's absolutely correct.
And maybe I don't want to leave Rob out so I will ask one last question.
Concerning cancellations it's been a bigger topic.
How close do you think the brands are to doing something more comprehensive on changing pricing strategies out there? We've heard that they have all sort of tested and explored it and I have heard rumblings that one particular brand family that's tied up with buying another might be a little less inclined to do something this year.
Just curious what you're hearing and thinking on that.
We're working on with our hotel operators to further push this opportunity.
We think it needs to be further examined and they are listening.
It's just taking a little bit of time but as you mentioned one of our partners who is tied up really isn't focused on that particular case right now.
But overall Hilton has implemented a $50 cancellation fee.
They are beta testing that which is great to see.
We haven't heard what the results are of yet but throughout the ownership community there is support for adding cancellation fees.
So I think this will be further expanded upon in 2016 and into 2017.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Patrick Scholes with SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
I maybe have missed this.
Did you say what you expect the dollar amount of CapEx disruption to be in 2016 and what was that for 2015? Patrick this is Mark.
There is always some level of disruption when you have a portfolio of 11 000 rooms but we don't have any material disruption that's different than last year in the 2016 numbers.
I guess I ask because it does appear your guidance for CapEx is materially higher than what your actual results was for 2015.
Yes.
So a lot of the work -- the advantage of having some seasonal properties a lot of our work is happening in markets like Chicago where it's very easy to do CapEx work in January February without having any disruption at all.
Another example would be the Vail Marriott where we plan to do rooms redo.
You can do that in the shoulder season again with very little disruption.
We probably run 10% in November for instance at the Vail Marriott.
So we are able to manage it.
The properties that always cause us the most problems with disruption on CapEx is the ones that run 85% or 90% 12 months of the year like the New York assets.
So we don't have any of those under the knife this year.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you Patrick.
And our next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
I just have a quick one.
Sorry if I missed this but can you talk about group production trends and maybe group pace for 2016? Sure.
Lukas this is Rob.
Good morning.
Group has continually to impress us with the short-term nature of it.
In the fourth quarter our production went from -- We produced during the fourth quarter -- sorry I will hop in.
We produced 10% more in the quarter for the quarter bookings in the fourth quarter and we produced 15% more 2016 bookings during the fourth quarter which were all a continuation of recent trends.
I think when you step back and look at our 2016 pace our pace has actually continued to accelerate throughout 2015 into 2016.
And that's despite frankly having some difficult citywide activity in our three big group markets which is Minneapolis Chicago and Boston.
And so going through each of those markets Minneapolis -- our pace for that hotel is roughly flat year-over-year in a city that frankly we expect to have a challenge citywide activity mostly because there is -- on the surface there is stuff that comes out of the CBD would indicate stronger citywide activity but a lot of that is related to the Ryder Cup which is in the suburbs which we don't believe is going to impact the city and our hotel.
And so flat group pace for the Minneapolis.
Hilton is actually pretty strong.
The most powerful story for us in 2016 is the Chicago Marriott that Mark mentioned on the prepared remarks where the first quarter is going to be very challenging in Chicago but our pace is up 3% for the entire year and over 8.5% for the quarters two through four.
And so that's powerful.
And then the third is the Boston Westin where our pace is negative because the citywide activity in Boston has shifted to Hines versus the BCEC.
However we still feel comfortable with our outlook for the Boston Westin because we believe with that submarket continuing to prosper that we will be able to replace a lot of that group with higher rated transient business.
Great.
That's really helpful.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Mark Savino with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
It looks like there was some RevPAR deceleration at your Key West properties in the fourth quarter.
So I was just wondering if maybe you could talk a little bit about some of the drivers behind that and if there was anything maybe property specific that may have had an impact? Mark this is Rob.
At the end of Key West we had a management transition and our new leadership has corrected the sales efforts which is proving very effective in Q1.
So we feel very very good about that.
There was a softness in the market in October especially during Fantasy Fest but overall we continue to see strong results.
I was looking at the numbers this morning and feel very good about where the market is heading now.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Bellisario with Baird.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
On dispositions what sort of change in buyer expectations have you witnessed in recent months during the conversations that you been having with buyers? And then also how have your expectations for pricing changed if at all on assets you would consider selling? Michael this is Mark.
I guess we are in discussions with some assets now so we don't want to provide too much color perhaps on some of that.
I would say on the things that we have looked at the activity in CBD topped top five markets remains incredibly active with a lot of different types of capital chasing it kind of replacing some people that have been sidelined with kind of new entrants.
What we are seeing and what I will call a non-core or non-top five CBDs is that there is still demand but where we might have expected eight to 12 bids there is four or five bids.
So that has been the more shift in the marketplace there.
And then I guess as a follow-up to that how would you characterize your motivation to sell an asset or assets today versus just 90 days ago? It has increased.
I mean I think if we looked at the fourth quarter the stock started trading -- the whole sector started trading down.
We are relatively constructive on fundamentals and at the beginning of the year I think we were uncertain whether there would be a rebound in a kind of appetite or whether there was going to be a continued kind of risk-off perspective from the investment community.
And what we clearly experienced year-to-date is a risk-off kind of environment where the stocks have traded lower.
So obviously the arbitrage is greater and that strategically makes it easier for us to probably create value by selling some assets and repurchasing stock given the trends in the stock prices year-to-date.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you Michael.
And our next question comes from the line of Anthony Powell with Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Sorry if you touched on this already but I wanted to get your thoughts on cancellations that we have heard a lot about this quarter and how you expect the industry to change the policies regarding near-term cancellations.
Sure Anthony.
It is Rob.
We are not seeing an overly large increase in cancellations quarter-over-quarter but again as the owner community is heavily involved working with their operators we do see this changing.
Our New York assets we have a 48-hour cancellation and Marriott is coming out with a 24-hour cancellation throughout their whole portfolio.
So we see this as an increasing opportunity for us.
In terms of group a lot of our groups -- if there is a group cancellation the group cancellation clauses are in place.
So we are able to get attrition revenue.
We saw a slight increase in attrition revenue during Q4 but overall nothing of overly concern to us.
Got it.
And in New York I know last quarter there was a management change or management change strategy at the Courtyards in New York.
How has that process been and kind of [by a local] [ph] Marriott in getting back to kind of some better management strategies there? Sure Anthony.
That was a revenue management change at our two Courtyards and we have really been working in partnership with Marriott on these two hotels.
We have a great revenue manager leader that has now started as of the middle of January.
We expect to see the benefits of that coming in March.
Okay.
Great.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'd now like to turn it back over to Mr.
Mark Brugger Chief of Executive Office for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
To everyone on this call we appreciate your continued interest in DiamondRock and look forward to updating you with our first quarter results.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.