And next we'll hear from the line of Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank Securities.
It looks like the losses year-on-year a little higher in International or Advance Academics.
Can you just talk about that? It's just the continued build out or just something else we should be thinking about? For the first quarter of the year it's sort of the lowest earnings for in effect loss for the segment because the summer period for high school so you only have summer school enrollments and they were down very low and it's also a time where we spend the bulk of our investment in marketing and recruiting efforts for Advanced Academics and then down in Brazil they are not teaching classes for the most of July.
And so you have 2/3 of the quarter where we're teaching and 1/3 were not.
So you end up with a loss and that you make that up in the balance of the year.
So it's more of the fact that a lot of the investment spending occurs during this period.
Last summer was really tough for a public school districts around this country and many of them are cutting summer school.
So one of the things that Advanced Academics did and I'm quite proud of the team for doing that was offered free summer school courses online to Advanced Academics capability and that basically enabled students to take summer school courses who otherwise would have not been able to do so but free means no revenue.
We assume that losses for the rest of the year would be lower than what we saw last year or how should we think about the rest of the year based on what we have seen here year-on-year for the first quarter? We don't give guidance on that but again the first quarter tends to be the big loss quarter and then we'll show profits in the balance and again we don't give guidance on a segment-by-segment basis.
I'm sure you petition to speak at the public hearing.
Have you been notified whether you're going to speak to them? We have not yet.
I wanted a circle back to Ross.
I'm assuming you have a positive outcome at this meeting in California next month.
Can you just tell us what the next steps are? Yes.
What we are looking for is to continue to expand capacity across the Ross University School of Medicine System.
And so I want to emphasize because I think a lot of attention and focus on Freeport that's important but Freeport is not the beginning and the end of our capacity capability at Ross.
We can and expect to expand capacity in Dominica in our Miami and our fifth semester location and then throughout the clinical network as well.
So expanding capacity at Ross is a multifaceted approach and so we are expecting as we used in line  with what we said before that January will continue to be a modest decline in new students and then in May we should start to see growth again.
And that's regardless of the outcome in California? Yes.
That will be regardless of the outcome in California although of course a positive outcome would make things more positive.
In terms of the MPRM that we're were expecting of within the next few days you talked about incentive comp are there any other items in there that might worry you in terms of having an impact on your business.
That's the main one.
The so-called incentive so called because it's not like we're paying incentive comp now and suddenly we can't do it.
We don't pay incentive comp now.
And going back to the statute in limiting the safe harbors would be acceptable to support that.
It's where there is a further explanatory comment and the preamble that is trouble for example the idea of securing enrollments is redefined to include even retention and graduation.
And so doesn't seem to make sense especially when you look at K-12.
K-12 where in raise of the top and it's mandated.
You have to hold people accountable for outcome.
It should be banned in high red.
It just doesn't seem to make sense.
So we'd like to be able to hold our employees accountable for retention and graduation outcomes.
So that kind of thing is what's very troubling to us and not just to us.
Comments have been -- there has been a large number of comments on this from private sector but also from public sector and independent schools.
Take a look at some of the public comments submitted by Michigan State or Boston University or Indiana Wesley because again this rule applies to all schools public sector private sector and independent.
Just a little extra elucidation for you on that one.
In the BTM segment I think you got operating margin close to 24%.
Do you expect that to increase during the balance of the year? Well again as I've said before we don't give segment guidance and the only prospective we're giving is that we expect to see some margin improvement across over the balance of the year but nearly to the extent that we've have to date and I'm talking about the balance of the year on average.
And then Medical and Healthcare segment was 240 basis points lower year-over-year.
Can you break out just to provide a little clarity in this quarter that just passed kind of what explains the delta there? Part of the delta is just the mix.
We've got lower growth within Ross that tends to have higher margins compared to Carrington and Chamberlain results.
Chamberlain has been growing nicely but we've been expanding and we have start some costs for the Chicago in Arlington campuses in there that's driving it down.
And making the investments in academic quality across the line for each of the institutions and then the name change for Carrington with some carryover spending in the quarter for the name change from was the Carrington.
Those are the main factors.
So with the ramp up and the needed investment just to maintain and enhance quality standards is just that going to mean that margins are going to be flattish effectively? As we look at the guidance we didn't give for the year was we expected profitability for the segment to be flat to down.
So with revenue growth so we're going to see margin deterioration throughout the year.
Have you noticed any change in the tone or conversation with the accreditors and advance the program integrity rule changes or any change in conversations with your counterparts there's about the market environment about what they expect from you in terms of program quality or interaction those type of things? Accreditors both institutional and programmatic are tough and that's their job to be tough and appropriately so.
But in terms of pronounce your significant change and tone or something like that no I really don't have anything to report there.
Within BTM any start differences in terms of how online or conversion rates have you mentioned some kind of broader issue but I'm trying drill a bit into the mix of modality you've seen a stark change in momentum in the ground gun versus online or lead costs conversion rates those types of things? No.
I really [indiscernible] within the DeVry University undergraduate we don't have any color to give you in terms of this program versus the program or online versus on-site or anything like that.
It was more of a general and again a lot of these were operational factors so that's really the way I would characterize it Brandon.
First I just want to move back to Rick's I think earlier comment that the uncertain economic environment is financially driving some sluggishness in start.
I'm wondering how to think about that.
Should we take that to mean that potentially some of your students are giving push back or kind of reluctant to take on additional debt given the prolonged high-unemployment rate if you could just give a little bit more color there? Yes and I commented that quite a bit.
It could be that and we don't have definitive data on this but it could be that when you have a recession that goes on this long and this unemployment at this level for this long that whatever counter cyclicality maybe you got earlier it goes away a little bit.
And yes that maybe some students are a little bit more reticent about taking on debt to go to school and go to that cycle.
So that could be a factor but we don't have proof for that but we're deciding that is a possibility.
You've had a very very strong persistent growth over the last couple of years and you certainly made comments at some of that is internal initiatives that you've implemented.
I'm just wondering how much headroom do you think you have in terms of persistence in getting that to continue to grow that you've seen over the last 12 to 18 months? Sure.
We think that there is opportunity for us to continue to improve persistence and graduation rates across the different members of the family of schools.
So this is not just DeVry University but also Carrington and Chamberlain down in Brazil and sort of across the board we're constantly finding ways to improve the quality to curriculum and the quality of the supporting student services which is a really key part especially for many of the non-traditional students that many of our schools served.
So we do think there is additional opportunity there and we're going to continue to invest our resources in support of our students and helping them graduate.
Were going to wrap up the Q&amp;A.
Thanks for all those questions and I just want to remind everyone that our next conference call is scheduled for January 25 of the new year and we will announce second quarter results then.
Thanks for your continued support at DeVry.
Thank you Jeremy.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rick Gunst Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please be advised that statements made on this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements subject to the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as DeVry Inc.
or its management has a view objective or outlook or that management believes expects anticipates foresees forecasts estimates or other words or phrases of similar importance.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied.
Potential risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ are described more fully in Item 1A Risk Factors in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30 2010 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 25 2010.
Telephone and webcast replays of the call are available until November 2 2010.
To access the replays please refer to today's press release for more information.
I'll now turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thank you Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today for our fiscal 2011 first quarter conference call.
I'll do a brief introduction and Rick will discuss our financial and enrollment result.
And then I'll provide a few operational highlights in the quarter and then we'll up to questions.
During the first quarter our continued focus on academic quality produced excellent student outcomes and strong financial results.
In particular our diversification strategy has enabled us to perform well throughout economic cycle and to be well positioned in these uncertain regulatory times.
Let me step back and spend a few minutes in the vital role of private sector colleges in our higher education system.
Because 20 years ago the U.S.
was first in the world in college attainment.
Today we ranked 12.
Clearly we're falling behind in terms of producing college graduates and part of the reason for this is insufficient educational capacity at our colleges.
Is lack of capacity comes at a time when more good jobs have never require a college degree.
President Obama has recognized the need to regain our educational leadership and recently said an ambitious goal of getting the U.S.
back to number one in college attainment by increasing the number of people with college degrees by more than 8 million by 2020.
Where is the capacity going to come from to educate America's work force? One of the great strengths is of the American System Higher Education is that the public sector the private sector and independent universities also different niches that provide diversity of choice for students.
In particular the U.S.
has a vibrant private sector that has shown a great ability to nimbly add capacity good quality outcomes at a lower net cost to taxpayers.
Last year 54% of all new allied health workers and 10% of new nurses received their degrees from private sector colleges and universities.
As you can see from Chart 1 of the press release our public sector colleges cost tax payers $15 500 per student private sector colleges cost taxpayers only $2 400 per student and this is after accounting for the cost of student loan default.
And in fact the private sectors schools pay taxes.
This data by the way comes from an August 2010 study by Sonocom and it demonstrates the concerns about disproportionate assistance to private sector schools are misplaced.
So increasing capacity is critical.
The debt capacity must be of high quality.
When it comes to measuring the outcomes the students are in players evaluate the quality base in a new institution.
Tax status for its lending source.
Clearly they don't.
They look at measures like test scores or graduation rates and employment outcomes.
In terms of employment outcomes at DeVry University we hold ourselves accountable to a goal that nine out of 10 graduates in the active job market will find employment in a chosen field of study within six months of graduation and we don't always hit the goal.
This last year with a tough economy as you can see in today's release 88.9% of DeVry University's graduate in the active job market were employed in their field of study within six months of graduation.
Over the past 35 years we have averaged over 90% and we hold ourselves accountable and do everything we can to help our students graduate and achieve their career goals across all our schools.
If for example Karen Tater [ph] is one of several students we featured in our 2010 annual report.
She recently the graduated with the BSN from DeVry Chamberlain College of Nursing.
In credit to the support she received from Chamberlain faculty and staff as being a major influence on her as she prepared to enter the nursing profession.
Karen is now employed as a trauma nurse at the Grant Medical Center in Columbus Ohio.
She's a greater representative Chamberlain's graduate.
Another example is Shamsa Chaudhry who earned her bachelor's in Business Administration from DeVry University in 2002.
She comes from an immigrant family and needed a school that will give her a quality education and the flexibility to work full-time.
She found that DeVry University enable her to combine her creativity with technology in the digital world and the result she's the founder and CEO of Mojo Inc.
and Interactive ad agency.
These students are often called non-traditional but they make up 75% of today's college graduates in today's college students.
DeVry University has two campuses ranked in the top 10 schools producing African-American Bachelor's Degrees in Business.
So DeVry and other private sector colleges are increasing access to many students who otherwise wouldn't have the opportunity and we recognize that there is concerns with some private sector programs.
We respect the students pay a lot of tuition and deserve value and the taxpayer dollars are involved.
But it's critical that regulatory changes be done right and need to be based on facts and analysis and the need to consider the student population being served.
Solutions must not unintentionally penalized quality programs and in so doing actually reduced access for students in this time of need.
As a matter of policy we should treat all students and all schools with the same standards of accountability and that's quality outcomes.
No matter of the funding source.
When we support the Education Department's recent announcement of increased enforcement resources enforcement is an important way to accomplish the goal to holding all schools accountable for delivering quality programs.
Now in terms of the ongoing regulatory process recently the department extended a timeline for the proposed gainful employment regulation.
That makes sense.
As it's essential for the department to get a balanced view and to hear from schools like the DeVry that have a track record of delivering programs that lead to employment and to long-term careers for our students.
We continue to have meetings to discuss our comments with the department including the Secretary Duncan and with other department and administration officials.
We appreciate this thoughtful approach by the department to allow for further dialogue to help ensure we get it right.
In concurrent with looking with the department we also have teams developing strategies to where we might need to make adjustments based on the new regulation depending on how they evolved.
However we aren't making large operational changes in anticipation of the new rules.
Part of the reason for this is that DeVry is always focus on quality even though that it meant slower growth sometimes.
For example DeVry University is not an open enrollment institution.
So we already turned away applicants who don't meet our admission standards.
It's not like we're now for the first time having to implement these kinds of quality standards and having to go through a long process of figuring out what works.
We feel very good about the value proposition offered by all our schools.
So again DeVry's focus on quality while servicing good stead over the long run.
So with that introduction let me turn it over to Rick for a review of DeVry's  financial highlights.
Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
As you see in our press release we delivered very strong results in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
Quarterly revenue of $521 million was up about 21% versus prior year all organic growth.
After tax net income of $74 million increased 34% and earnings per share of $1.03 increased about 36% versus last year and our net income margin was 14.1% in the quarter up 140 basis points versus the 12.7% margin achieved a year ago.
We referenced first quarter results including expense related Share-Based Payment of approximately $5.3 million pretax or $4.6 million net of tax higher than last year driven by an increase in the number of retirement eligible awards.
Our income tax provision this quarter was approximately $39 million and we had $23 million of capital spending which we use to invest in our schools.
Our overall effective tax rate was 34.5% in the quarter up from 32% rate in the first quarter last year and 32.1% for the full fiscal year 2010 primarily due to the increase in domestic source income.
Cost of Educational Services expense increased by 16% versus prior year and student services and administrative expense increased by 17% in the quarter.
Both lower than revenue growth and driving improved margins due to operating leverage.
And just to note that educational service expense or cost of construction was approximately four times that of the advertising.
We continue to make targeted increases to drive act them with quality and enhance student services consistent with our philosophy of quality leads to growth.
Advertising expense as a percentage of revenue was 11.9% for the quarter.
Now let me walk you through some of the key highlights of our operating segment results which are further detailed in our release.
First the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was up about 25% versus prior year driven by summer enrollment growth coming from continued online expansion improved campus enrollments and increased persistence as a result of our focus on student services.
Segment earnings were $84.5 million in the quarter up 51% versus prior year driven by the revenue growth and the resulting operating leverage.
Well of course take your enrollment  for the September session the Keller Graduate School of Management was up 14.1% versus prior year continuing the strong trend.
We will report fall enrollment for DeVry University in December and while we expect Keller to maintain this trend we expect to report a modest decline in new student enrollment for undergraduate students in this period.
This is driven by continuing tough comps with fall 2009 growth of 19.4% on top of growth in fall of 2008 of 19.7%.
Assuming a modest decline this fall new student enrollment would grow at a compound annual rate of 11% to 12% over the past three years.
It's also important to note that the new student enrollment will still be near record levels this term.
During the recent period we've seen decreased volume of higher quality increase coupled with lower conversion.
One potential factor could be the difficult in uncertain external economic environment.
Another factor contributing this is that we are below the number of admission advisers we'd like to employ to serve our new and prospective students.
We're actively hiring advisers to ensure we're meeting those students needs.
And lastly DeVry University shifted its advertising mix over the past year to include more internet related advertising.
This channel hasn't provided as many inquiries as we anticipated and we're making adjustments to maximize our returns in this investment.
Further we believe the upcoming elections have crowded the TV airwaves with political ads making other advertising less effective.
Once elections are over we hope this phenomenon will subside.
We do expect DeVry University undergraduate total student enrollment growth to be in the mid to high teens this fall.
Our focus on academic quality and student services has continued to improve student persistence and is further aided by the roll out of student central across the system.
We still believe that supply-demand relationship in value proposition for our programs remain strong over the long term and see no evidence that the deceleration is a long-term trend.
Shifting to the Medical and Health Care segment revenue was up about 17% in the quarter driven by the strong demand for Chamberlain Nursing programs and the opening of two new campuses during the quarter in Chicago and Arlington Virginia.
Segment earnings of $28.2 million were up about 4% versus prior year generally as expected.
As discussed during our last call we moderated enrollment at Ross Medical School while working to add capacity.
September term new student enrollment at Ross University was down 26% and total enrollments were down slightly versus prior year.
We report near record enrollments in Carrington in December.
However early indications are that new student growth continues to decelerate and should moderately decline versus prior year.
We expect a decrease in new student enrollments at Carrington in the mid-single digits and a decrease in total students in the low-single digits.
In addition to the same type of external factors cited for DeVry University Carrington continues to ramp up its new brand strategy and associated awareness effort while making internal changes to complement this new strategy.
While the initial feedback on the new name has been encouraging the change to more brand advertising versus direct response did result in lower inquiry volume this past turn.
The same change coupled with other internal changes we've made have contributed to near-term softness in enrollments.
However we're confident these initiatives will strengthen Carrington for the long term.
Meanwhile at Chamberlain College of Nursing enrollment growth remains strong driven by the supply-demand in Dallas for qualified nurses.
Within our Professional Education segment revenue was up 4% versus prior year and segment earnings down just 1% in the quarter.
Trends are better than what we saw a year ago but we believe some of these recent revenue growth is attributed to activity in advance of the CPA exam change that is occurring January 2011.
Lastly our other Educational Services segment revenues were up 5% and segment earnings down about $1 million versus prior year.
Advance Academic revenues were up primarily due to declines in summer school enrollments and the impact of safe budget deficits.
Meanwhile DeVry Brasil news students enrollment were up 9% resulting from some of the admissions improvements made over the past year.
Shifting to cash flow and balance sheet.
Cash from operations was $196 million versus $177 million last year.
The strong cash generation drove our cash and marketable securities balance to $453 million at the end of the quarter compared to $340 million last year.
We also remain debt-free during the quarter compared to having an outstanding debt of $105 million last year.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $161 million versus $157 million last year.
This increase is attributable to revenue growth in the quarter as receivables per account across our schools are generally in line or lower than prior year.
Receivables per account in DeVry University were also down compared to two prior years ago due to our efforts and focus of our campus and online student services staff.
And I'd like to take a second to recognize the outstanding performance of our teams in managing this area particularly during this tough economic times.
Related to this bad debt was 3% of revenue in the quarter compared to 3.4% a year ago.
Another indicator of our students paying back their accounts during the tough times and a strong value proposition of our programs.
As I mentioned earlier capital spending was $23 million during the quarter versus $26.5 million spent last year a bit lower just due to timing of spending between quarters.
Spending was focused on Project Delta facility improvements to better serve students within the DeVry University Carrington and DeVry Brasil and expansion within Ross University and Chamberlain College of Nursing.
So we could educate more doctors and nurses in this great time of need.
Total capital spending for the fiscal year is expected to likely be in the $150 million range.
Finally during the quarter we completed our third share repurchase program and seamlessly began executing our fourth program.
For our third $50 million program we repurchased approximately 972 000 shares an average cost of $51.43 per share.
Under the fourth program we repurchased about 266 000 shares an average cost of $43.95 per share with about $38 million of authorized demand outstanding.
So that concludes my overview of the strong results for the first quarter.
We're up to a good start and our first quarter results put us in a good position to deliver our goal of roughly 20% earnings growth for fiscal 2011.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Daniel for some more color on our operating results.
Our strategy of quality and diversification is really paying off enabling us to perform in a more consistent steady pattern throughout economic cycles and to be well positioned in uncertain regulatory times as well.
Despite the potential softness in the fall that Rick described both Keller Graduate School and Chamberlain expect to report continued solid growth rates and student persistence is up because of the investments we made in academic quality which continues to drive solid growth in total enrollments.
And recent example of this is in our Business Technology and Management segment.
This is the continued investment we've made in our student central initiatives which provides students with a one-stop destination for curricular career and financial services.
The program has helped drive an increases in student persistence and are near completing our goal of having student central in every DeVry University location.
We've received a lot of positive feedback on the career services we offer DeVry University undergraduate students and many have asked us to expand it to our graduate level.
Well we listened and in the first quarter we began offering career services to all of our Keller graduate Schools of management student as well.
DeVry University recently opened a new co-location in Pomona California with Carrington College.
In our first tri-location is a new word there between Ross University DeVry University and Chamberlain is in the planning stages in Miramar Florida.
Let me move on to our Medical and Healthcare segment.
At Ross University enrollments were in line with our expectation as we work to expand capacity at Ross Medical School to help ease the growing physician shortage.
We're still working to the approval processes with the next step being the medical board of California November meeting regarding our  Freeport Grand Bahama's location.
We continue to invest in academic quality at Ross and we are currently constructing new large-scale academic centers both the medical and veterinary school at our campuses in Dominica and in St.
Kitts.
Chamberlain College of Nursing continues to deliver strong result as the demand for highly skilled nurses has never been higher.
Our students continue to value the quality of the course work and the flexibility that Chamberlain's programs provide.
In September Chamberlain launched an RN to MSN option that Masters of Science in Nursing.
For RN we already have an associate degree or a diploma in nursing to go up to the master's level.
Chamberlain also submitted an application for a new location in Houston to be open in spring of 2011 pending approval.
The new campus will be co-located in DeVry University.
At Carrington we continue to invest in academic quality and additional capacity.
In addition to the new Pomona co-location campus that I mentioned we expect to open a new campus in Muskie Texas which is just outside of Dallas by the middle of next year pending approval.
We're also expanding our program offerings with the launch of physical therapy programs across several new locations and four additional online associate degrees have already begun.
Now turning to our Professional Education segment.
We also continue to make investments in Becker's offering.
In order to best position Becker to benefit when the economic climate and financial job market improved.
Beginning in November we'll be offering our revamped courses for the new 2011 CPA exam.
We believe this new exam is a great opportunity unlike many of Becker's competitors most of whom are small.
We believe our ability to make investments even during this down-cycle is a competitive advantage.
This is a recurring theme for Becker.
Whenever there's a change in the exam Becker has a competitive advantage given its industry leadership and its access to the resources of DeVry.
Becker also recently announced a new three-year partnership with London-based ATC International that will expand Becker's CFA and CPA program offerings into Central and Eastern Europe as well as into Central Asia.
And finally in our other Educational Services segment DeVry Brasil delivered solid growth in new student enrollments.
When we first started our operations in Brazil we saw a lot of potential.
The team we have in place is doing an exceptional job implementing the processes programs and facilities that are producing growth that's outpacing the overall Brazil market.
As part of our long-term growth and diversification strategy we'll continue to invest in Brazil.
During the quarter we increased the number of admission campus to better serve our current and prospective students.
We also focused on expansion as we broke ground on a new campus for our verbose [ph] school.
So in summary our strategy are focusing on academic quality and our diversified growth continues to position us for sustainable long-term value creation.
We remain extremely confident in our ability to meet our performance goals over the long term as we continue to focus on academic quality and successful student outcomes.
With that we'd be happy take your questions.
Joan? Thanks Daniel.
Before we get the Q&amp;A started I'd like to point out to everyone that we have changed the date for our fall enrollment announcement.
Those results will now be released on December 7 rather than December 9 as we had previously indicated.
So again mark your calendars for December 7 and take it off December 9.
So now as we move into the Q&amp;A we're going to ask everyone to limit themselves to one question and just one small follow-up.
We have a lot of people in the queue and we want to try to get to everyone as quickly as possible in the time we've allotted.
So Jeremy if you can give everyone the instructions we'll start the Q&amp;A.
So Daniel the decline in new undergraduate enrollment anticipated you cite lower conversion and lower high-quality leads and they sound like they're more than perhaps one quarter phenomenon.
How are you thinking this is going to play out over the next several quarters? Is really not possible to speculate on that Peter.
We don't see it as a long-term trend.
And in general most of the factors that we cited are -- many of the factors that we cited are internal as well as the external factors.
So we do think that we can continue to follow our longer-term mid- to high-single digit Houston enrollment growth.
You cite below plan on the number of advisors.
Can you give us any color on that in terms of what led to that outcome? Really an operational management challenge I would say.
That we have I think good plans in place to turn that around and we just got a little bit behind the ball and filling some open positions and that left us with less ability to follow up on some of these new student inquiries that we did receive than we should have and led to a little bit lower conversion rate.
So something that we think we got our arms around and we expect to over the next quarter and we'll keep you posted.
Just a quick question on the competitive environment from a marketing perspective.
We've seen a few companies announced moving upstream in the marketing channel in terms of targeting your students.
I was wondering if you could talk about what you're seeing from a competitive perspective on the marketing channel as well.
That's not a characterization is moving upstream or doing something like that.
As I mentioned earlier DeVry schools are not open enrollment schools.
It's not to say that if somebody is open enrollment that's a bad thing or a good thing.
It's just a fact.
And so we already have a number of those kinds of processes in place.
So we don't anticipate major operational challenges and hurdles for us to go through jumping to hoops over the next period of time.
In terms of the competitive environment it's always competitive.
And in fact most of our competition comes from the public sector schools the state schools as well as some of the independents that are out there.
Only about 10% of the students that we survey at DeVry University specifically report considering another private sector or proprietary school quite interesting.
So certainly competitive but not a real drastic change there.
Rick I think you mentioned that you saw confidence that you'd be able to grow operating income 20% year-over-year at fiscal year '11.
And given the expected declines in admission enrollment at the underground level on the fall I'm just wondering where that confidence is coming from in terms of revenue and margin expectations? I'm talking for the full fiscal year.
So as I've mentioned the fact that we're off to a good start with 34% increase in net income in the first quarter gets to puts us in a good run rate to be able to deliver 20% for the year.
So the growth will probably subside would still be good growth in the balance of the year to come in roughly around 20% for the full year.
Can you clarify your expectations around Keller enrollment? I didn't quite understand if that meant that you expect Keller course taker enrollment to be flat versus recent trends on the numerical basis or if you're expecting the gross rate term in the same year-over-year basis? With Keller of course we report total course takers and that's what we're seeing.
We expect that to be roughly similar to the trends that you're seeing.
Meaning the growth rate not the number of course takers? Right.
The growth rate and total course takers yes.
How can you or can you be certain or do you have a sense what just sort of reputation overhang from all the awful publicity around proprietary schools has had on your enrollment? Is that possible that that's been something that's hurt your conversion rate? It's certainly possible but we just don't have any data or evidence to that other than anecdote.
We tend to be kind of analytical types like data and analysis.
So we're certainly trying to assess that and doing some market research to see if that's a factor.
But again we have not seen that and if it is it's certainly possible.
If it is a factor we wouldn't expect it to be a factor for the long term.
Can you give us any thoughts on what might have to happened with incentive comp policies across your schools? I mean is the number of students signed up currently part of the formula and any sense how you think about changing that based on the proposed rule? Well thanks for asking that because that gives me a great opportunity to a clarify in case anybody thinks that we pay a bonus or an incentive payment to our admissions advisors the answer is no.
We don't.
We pay a base salary and we expect to continue to pay them a base salary.
I don't think they're going to work for free.
So no we do not pay incentives or bonuses.
That's one of the things that is so unfortunate about some of the reporting that's out there.
Again based on anecdotes and stories and not based on fact.
The fact is that incentive compensation has already been has been since 1992.
There could be changes.
We may need to make changes in our evaluation processes depending on the rules that are forthcoming but we're going from situation where before you are paying a commission and after you're not.
You have to make this massive adjustment.
That's not the case.
Can you clarify the change in the salary? Is it all impact that has been by success in signing of student? Is that something that impact the change in salary? We do a performance evaluation for admissions advisors just like we do for any other employee.
And just like we do for any other employee we look at the effectiveness of that person in their job.
And since the recruiter's job is to recruit we certainly do take it into account did they recruit any students and that is a consideration which is compliant with the statute and the regulations.
You had great operating margin leverage at the beginning of the year.
My question is how do you see operating margin through the balance of the year to make that 20% goal? And also just to clarify is that 20% net income growth or 20% EPS growth? I said it in our last call.
We are expecting to see a differential between the pretax income growth and the after-tax income growth because of the fact that our tax rate is going to be higher this year than last because of the domestic source income.
So it's going to be right around 20% for both the pretax income we expect to be a little bit higher and the after-tax income should be right around 20% might be just below but we're off to a good start.
As I mentioned before with our first quarter results we still expect to see for the balance of the year margin expansion but albeit probably not the same level of expansion that we've seen last year or even for this quarter that will lead us to again roughly 20% growth give or take for both pretax and after tax.
Did you say why the margin expansion will be less in the balance of the year than in the beginning of the year? Well I think that we're going to see our total revenue growth come from north of 20% probably south of 20% as we go through the year given the tougher comps and given some of the softness in the new students for DeVry University in Carrington.
And we'll still be making investments in academic quality so that differential between revenue growth and expense growth will narrow.
Question about the placement read language that you put in the press release I just wanted to clarify because the language looks a little bit different than what you've included in the past.
Have you changed the methodology there? And also you put in something about how it includes people who are already employed in their field of study.
Can you give us an estimate of what portion of the people are already employed? Just to clarify we always talk about employment statistics rather than placement and it's just important to note that because we assist students with life-long career schools and we assist them in finding employment but we don't place student or place graduates.
And the wording were just to clarify that yes it does so if the students find a job many students do find employment while they're in school.
And they're first or second freshman or sophomore or junior year help them gain skill that help them gain employment in their field of study and they retained that employment after graduation and so that's included.
I don't have a figure of a percentage of the students who are like that who came in with a job and kept that job all the way through school for you but I think we have that available.
I just don't have that close at hand.
And just to note this is consistent with the way we've been reporting it all along.
We're just clarifying it for everybody's purposes but it's consistent with how we reported in the past.
Right no change in methodology.
On Carrington I think you said some of the reasons for the negative new student growth were similar to the ones you cited for DeVry University.
Can you just clarify what role the economy is playing because you said the bad economy is hurting DeVry University but a couple of quarters ago counter cyclicality came up.
Where are we as far as how the economy is impacting Carrington for good or bad? That's an excellent question.
I know it can be confusing sometimes when you talked about economic and cyclicality or counter cyclicality.
And the big picture for the DeVry family is that overall our diversified family of schools helps us perform well in good and bad times because we do have some schools that are a little bit counter cyclical and Carrington would be one.
On the other hand we have other schools that have performed better in good times Becker or Advanced Academics or other thing and then some that really are not cyclical one way or the other like nursing programs being the only publicly held organization with a medical school veterinary school.
That something that's unique to DeVry that's non-cyclical.
With regard to the counter cyclical impact that maybe we saw before one of the things that we wondered and I think we talked a little bit about this is what happens if a recession persists and we really do not have a President for this.
Since the Great Depression when Dr.
Herman DeVry started DeVry University back in 1931.
So we just have not seen the prolonged recession and the prolonged level of high unemployment to this extent for.
So it could be that when it extends this long that the counter-cyclical boost that perhaps Carrington got earlier maybe that's waning and you're not seeing that anymore.
One other comment on Carrington is that some of its programs are more countercyclical like the certificate level where other programs which has been the focus of our growth initiative at Carrington at the associate degree level and other programs like dental hygiene are not cyclical.
So those programs should do well in good times and bad as well.
So even in our most countercyclical school which is Carrington our strategy is to reduce that cyclicality and have more of a steady performance in good times and bad.
At the risk of asking a little bit of a silly question when you refer to a high-quality lead could you just elaborate on what you mean by high-quality? I think what we're all trying to grapple with here is whether we should be concluding that if everyone is moving up -- if everyone is looking at high-quality in the same way how effectively the market opportunity diminish because some percentage of the population is no longer being viewed as attractive as candidates proposed secondary education.
No I wouldn't characterize it that way Corey and I don't think it's a silly question.
I think what we were -- let me give a little bit color on that with regard to DeVry University specifically.
Something you hear us -- and Dave Pauldine at our Education Day back in Phoenix talk quite a bit about this.
We had gone into a marketing strategy about two years ago of putting more of an emphasis on brand marketing relatively speaking and actually taking a strategy of driving a smaller number of higher quality leads but high-quality in the sense that they're more responsive they're more likely to respond and to start.
That was the thing that they are more less academically qualified something like that and that cycle led to improved efficiency in our marketing process and then we took those extra resources and fold them back to academic quality initiatives and that cycle worked very well for us a couple of years ago.
It worked very well for us last year and we're just in the recent period of time seeing that didn't translate quite into the same effectiveness as we've seen before.
That's where we're having to make some operational adjustments and management adjustment in the marketing operations in the buying that we're doing but that's what we meant by the quality of inquiries.
It is more of the responsiveness and not the sort of academic preparedness.
About placement I think there is some skepticism specifically in general about the validity of placement rates.
Can you just talk through how those rates are audited? I don't know if HLC looks at those or does your auditor look at them or how can you have confidence that those rates are thoroughly embedded and valid? And again we talked about employment rates rather than placement rates just for everyone's identification and we do have those audited both our internal audit team goes through and we have an external audit firm who goes through and validates and audits our processes.
We have done it on a consistent basis over many many years and HLC being a regional accreditor does not review that but national accreditors do.
And so our school that has national accreditations which will be Carrington College as the State of Carrington College in California is nationally accredited and ACICS [Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools] has a process of review and a set of standards for how those employment statistics are tracked and the survey methodology.
So there is there's actually a whole body of knowledge.
There's a whole established set of processes which we think by the way a great way of measuring gainful employment and we have proposed that as an additional set of rules that regulators might want to consider using when they measured gainful employment.
So we have very high degree of confidence in the processes and in the audit that goes on top of those processes in the area of employment statistics.
I wanted to follow-up on Corey's excellent question and just press you a little bit further.
I think that you might agree that we that have been qualified in some way as students that are highly focused in their academic goals are highly academically qualified are more valuable in the marketplace at large.
And I think what Corey was alluding to is that many other schools in the private sector are bidding for those leads.
And so the question is are you seeing that type of specific competition? Is it becoming more expensive to acquire the leads that you believe are going to lead to a successful DeVry enrollment and graduate or are you not seeing anything necessarily different in that particular marketplace relative to competition? I understand your question and I would say at this point well that's certainly possible at this point we have not seen that phenomenon.
I would also just like to remind everyone that we use the term inquiries for respective students who inquire with us.
My understanding is the Department of Education is speaking with most of the publicly traded institution maybe the last week or this week or perhaps next week for half an hour.
Just curious to find out what are the nature of these discussions? Are there any signs of receptiveness on their part to make adjustments to ensure unintended consequences don't occur? we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the DeVry's Fiscal 2011 Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
My name is Mary and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Mary.
With me today from DeVry Management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rick Gunst Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll now review the Safe Harbor provisions for this call.
This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
Such forward-looking statements reflects among other things management's current expectations plans and strategies and anticipated financial results all of which are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Please see our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information about forward-looking statements and related risk factors.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until February 8 2011.
To access the replay please refer to today's press release for information.
I'll now turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thank you all very much for joining us today for our Fiscal 2011 Second Quarter Conference Call.
I'll provide a brief introduction and Rick will discuss our financial results and then I'll review a few operational highlights in the quarter before opening it up to your questions.
So to begin let me offer a belated Happy New Year and I'd like to provide a little perspective on calendar 2010 and our accomplishments during the year that have us well-positioned for 2011 and beyond.
Looking back the regulatory environment dominated the headlines in 2010.
Interestingly we begun to notice a more balanced dialogue with Congress and the Department of Education and other key stakeholders who were expressing their concern over the proposed regulation.
They realized that there's a potential to produce unintended consequences.
In other words they not just hold poor quality programs accountable but they inadvertently impact high-quality programs and thus reduce access for the very students we most need to help.
Last week President Obama issued an executive order to review the myriad of government relations.
He said that we need disclosure and I quote "As a tool to inform consumers of their choices rather than restricting those choices." Well we couldn't agree more.
And in fact during the rule-making process DeVry and others proposed new standards of enhanced student disclosure.
And we were pleased to see these concepts incorporated as part of their rules that were issued back in October.
Clearly the second part of the rules but whatever regulation comes to pass we believe DeVry has the resources in place to properly address them and to implement any changes that might be necessary.
High-quality programs that deliver value to students will always have a place in our educational system.
We believe DeVry is in a strong position as one of the long-term leaders in providing high-quality career-focused education.
But beyond all the regulatory events we continue to invest in our schools in 2010.
Let me give you just three highlights.
Our Student Central concept which provides one-stop shopping for all services that provides the student has helped to increase persistence and produced better outcomes for DeVry University students.
Investment in academic quality and student services this past year at DeVry Brasil position our schools there for growth opportunities in the coming years.
And Chamberlain opened two locations last year in Arlington Virginia and most recently in Chicago to meet the strong demand for nurses in the United States.
I'd also like to take a moment to recognize DeVry University for being highlighted in the recent McKinsey &amp; Company study of highly productive higher education institutions.
DeVry University was one of eight schools that were highlighted and the only private sector school that McKinsey selected.
A link to the report is in our press release that just crossed the wire this afternoon.
So as we look forward to 2011 we remain focused on executing our growth plans with continued emphasis on our diversification strategy.
Despite the softening new student enrollment that we reported in our fall term our diversified family of schools will continue to be a real strength for us.
And this diversification concept is directly relevant to how we're managing this environment.
A number of you have asked us about the declines in new student enrollment so let me try to provide some color on that.
It's important to keep in mind that there is no single explanation.
Several factors affect different schools in different ways ranging from internal execution to external market dynamics.
Carrington Colleges for example experienced a decline in fall enrollment because of how we managed our name change and other process issues that we're working through as well as some external factors.
DeVry University undergraduate programs saw some slowing that's more tied to inquiry flow in the market in general.
However there are other schools within our diverse offerings like Chamberlain Becker DeVry Brasil and Keller where we continue to see growing demand.
And so our diversification strategy positions us to achieve consistent performance throughout various economic and programmatic [ph] cycles and to create value in good times and bad.
And so with that overview let me turn the call over to Rick.
Great.
Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
I'm going to take the next minutes to highlight our strong results for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2011.
Second quarter revenue of $551 million was up about 17% versus prior year and up 19% to the first half of the fiscal year all organic growth.
After-tax income of $89 million in the quarter increased to 22% and earnings per share of $1.25 increased 25% versus last year.
Earnings per share were up about 30% year-to-date.
And our net income margin for the first half was 15.1% up 100 basis points versus 14.1% margin achieved a year ago.
The referenced second quarter results include expense related to share-based payments of approximately $3.1 million pretax or $2.6 million net of tax.
Our overall effective tax rate was 34.5% for both the quarter and year-to-date up from 32.1% for the full fiscal 2010 primarily due to increase in domestic source income.
Note that our income tax provision for the first half year was about $85 million and we had $54 million of capital spending invested in our schools.
Cost of Educational Services Expense increased by 15% versus prior year in the quarter and Student Services and Administrative Expense increased by 13%.
We continue to invest resources to drive academic quality and enhance student services consistent with our philosophy of "Quality Leads to Growth." With that let me now walk you through some of the key highlights of our operating segment results which are further detailed in our release.
First the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was up about 18% versus prior year in the quarter and 21% year-to-date.
The growth rate is so strong but back in the high-teens due to the softening of new student enrollments reported in the fall term and tougher year-over-year comparisons.
Segment earnings were up 27% in the quarter and 37% in the first half driven by the revenue growth and resulting operating leverage.
Meanwhile investments continue in academics new program developments and new location expansion for the balance of this year and beyond.
While enrollment growth is slowing due to the external challenges and tough year-over-year comps we still believe the supply-demand relationship and value proposition for our programs remain strong over the long-term and see no evidence of this deceleration as a long-term trend.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up 13% in the quarter and about 15% year-to-date driven primarily by the strong demand for Chamberlain's nursing programs.
Segment earnings in the quarter about flat with prior year and up slightly for the first half as Chamberlain's growth was offset by margin depression within Ross and Carrington due to lower enrollment growth.
Daniel will provide updates on both Ross and Carrington in just a few minutes.
Within the Professional Education segment revenue was up a strong 26% in the quarter and about 15% for the first half with segment earnings in the quarter more than double compared to prior year.
Revenue in the quarter got a boost from the sale of new materials in advance of the CPA Exam change that was effective January 1 of 2011.
We expect some of this strong growth to represent a shift of activity that would normally have occurred in the first half of the year first half of calendar 2011 that is.
We anticipate hiring within the accounting and finance fields to continue to improve slowly but don't expect the market improvements in performance until hiring ramps up further.
Lastly our Other Educational Services segment revenues were up slightly in the quarter as growth of DeVry Brasil was offset by declines within Advanced Academics driven by the impact of state budget deficits.
Earnings for the segment remained low given the lower top line growth.
And while Advanced Academics is operating in a tight fiscal environment we're making some headways in several key states including New York and Texas.
Shifting to cash flow and the balance sheet.
Cash from operations was $274 million versus $267 million last year.
This strong cash generation drove our cash and marketable securities balance to $462 million at the end of the quarter compared to $334 million last year.
We also remained debt-free during this quarter compared to having outstanding debt of $45 million last year.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $153 million versus $135 million last year.
This increase is lower than the revenue growth in the quarter as receivables per account across our schools were closely managed.
I'd also like to note that receivables per account within DeVry University were down compared to the two prior years due to our efforts and focus of our campus and online Student Services staff.
I'd also like to take a second to recognize the outstanding performance of these teams in managing this area particularly during these tough economic times.
Really through which [ph] our bad debt expense for the first half of the year was 2.9% of revenue as compared to 3.2% last year.
Another indicator our students are paying back their accounts and the strong value proposition of our programs.
As we mentioned earlier capital spending was $54 million in the first half of the year versus $62 million spent last year for the first half.
However we anticipate the rate of spending to pick up considerably and are still anticipating spending around $150 million this fiscal year and possibly even more depending on the timing of activity over the next six months.
This higher rate of spending is driven by facility improvements to better serve students across all our schools new locations planned at DeVry University and expansion within Ross and Chamberlain College of Nursing so that we can educate more doctors and nurses in this great time of need.
Project Delta is another key component of our capital spending.
We rolled out the constituent relationship management or CRM module last summer and just this month released the new student portal phase of the project with student accounts and the academics modules still to come.
As we mentioned before the project is behind the original schedule and over the original budget.
But we're not going to roll it out until it's time and we're committed to getting this right.
We've chosen to hold off releases at times to ensure all business and system issues have been resolved before making any system transition.
We are starting to see some of the benefits with more yet to come as the other phases get accomplished.
But given the delays much of the activity will shift into next fiscal year and total capital costs will likely now to be in the $80 million to $85 million range once the project has been completed.
And finally during the quarter we announced a 20% increase to our annual dividend and completed our fourth share repurchase program right at the end of December.
We previously repurchased just under $12 million in September of 2010 and completed the remaining $38 million of the $50 million program in the second quarter.
In total we repurchased about 1.1 million shares at an average cost of $45.31 per share under this fourth program.
We're now executing our fifth program of $50 million which was authorized by our board in November.
So as I wrap up let me just remind everyone that looking to the second half of this fiscal year we expect earnings growth to slow especially in the third quarter but still be around 20% growth for the full year.
Pretax earnings growth is likely to be a bit higher than 20% and the after-tax growth possibly at or a bit lower for the year due to the increase in our effective tax rate versus last year.
And with that let me now turn the call back over to Daniel for some color on the operating results.
Thank you sir.
Let me begin with our Business Technology and Management segment comprising DeVry University and its Keller Graduate School of Management.
In December we announced that DeVry University had experienced some softness in new student enrollment growth in the fall.
I want you to know that we don't observe slower growth in the external market and just accept that.
We view it as our job as a management team to improve our processes to continue to reach more students.
So what's important to focus on here are the actions that we're taking moving forward.
And for example we were understaffed in some of our admissions teams during the fall recruiting period so we're in the process of reallocating resources in this area the prospective students can receive prompt service and have access in the information that they need during the enrollment process.
Another action we're taking is adjusting our marketing mix and continuing to invest in DeVry University's branding strategy firmly positioning DeVry University as the career university.
The reason we launched our first ever combined DeVry and Keller branding campaign is part of our celebration of DeVry University's 80th anniversary.
By the way DeVry was founded back in 1931 right here in Chicago by Dr.
Herman DeVry.
We heard very positive comments on the messaging and you can find the link to the newest example of it in today's press release.
Now in terms of total enrollment we're continuing to see strong growth rates and that's in part because of increased persistence.
This is being driven by our continued investments in the quality of our student services.
Our Student Central which I mentioned earlier we've got great feedback from students about how helpful Student Central is to them.
And during the quarter we completed the rollout to all DeVry University locations.
Moving on to our Medical and Health Care segment I'll begin with Ross University.
On the second quarter Ross received licensing approval for its Freeport Grand Bahama location from the Medical Board of California.
This was an important step for student licensure in California.
We're pleased with this result and we believe it's consistent with the quality academic programs that Ross provides to its students.
Now given some capacity constraints at Dominica campus about two years ago we set an extension strategy that included the Freeport location.
But since then subsequent events have caused us to slow down and reevaluate this strategy.
But for some of you who weren't here at that time I'll provide a bit of history for you.
We always knew that students who were not going to be eligible for federal financial aid in those semesters while attending Freeport so we developed an institutional loan program for those students.
Our understanding has been that once student move beyond their semesters in Freeport they would become eligible for federal financial aid for the balance of their education.
The Education Department has recently raised some questions that we'll need to work through and that could impact Title IV eligibility for new student.
So we're evaluating how to best leverage our Freeport location but I'd like to remind you that Freeport is just one part of our overall expansion strategy for Ross as we continue to invest in Dominica and so that's a part of our strategy as well.
And we're also expanding our clinical capacity in Miami Saginaw Michigan and throughout our clinical networks.
And as we projected we were down in new students the last two semesters and we expect new students in Ross to be down slightly in the January semester as well which we will be reporting next quarter.
But then we should start to see growth again.
Long-term we expect to continued steady growth given the demand for positions.
In fact the recent article in the Wall Street Journal stated that in order to keep pace with physician demand the U.S.
will need to train an additional 6 000 to 8 000 doctors each year for the next 20 years.
Ross graduates serve some of those underserved populations in the country providing critical care to people who may not have access otherwise.
And based on information from the Association of American Medical Colleges Ross University School of Medicine ranked number one in African-American physician graduates in 2010 more than any U.S.
medical school.
So Ross and schools like it are helping to fulfill and to meet the critical need.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we're continuing to see strong demand as the need for skilled nurses continues to rise.
In particular our Masters of Science in Nursing program showed strong growth during the quarter which indicates the demand for nursing professionals with advanced degrees.
We're continuing to invest in new programs locations and partnership at Chamberlain as well.
In the coming months we'll open a new Houston campus and it's pending approval.
And that would be a co-location with DeVry University.
And then in the summer we are expecting to open a new campus in Miramar Florida again pending approvals that will be a tri-location not a co-location but a tri-location with DeVry University and a replacement clinical location for Ross University.
At Carrington Colleges we continue to focus on improvements in our internal execution in order to drive growth.
We've been in the process of shifting to more direct advertising versus brand advertising.
We're putting procedures in place to respond to increase more rapidly.
We're creating a more straightforward website experience with prospective students and we recently opened a new campus in Pomona that's offering high-demand programs in medical pharmacy and veterinary fields.
This by the way is another co-location with DeVry University.
We expect these improvements to take some time to produce results.
We do see long-term opportunities for growth at Carrington because of the need for healthcare professionals in the United States.
And let me just comment on that because the Carrington Colleges are a great example of how the private sector responds so nimbly to society's workforce needs.
Last week I attended an education conference that was put on by the Aspen Institute and one theme was how many young people may not want or be suited for a four-year bachelor's degree and would be better served by pre-baccalaureate programs so certificates and associate degrees.
In the other day Bill Hughson and I visited with a major hospital system where they described the hard time that they have finding allied health and ancillary care professionals and they wanted to know if we could help.
Again these are mostly pre-baccalaureate levels.
Carrington is responding to these educational and workforce needs.
Turning to our Professional Education segment.
Becker experienced a surge in demand for its test preparation services ahead of the new 2011 CPA Exam.
Expect enrollments to return to more normal levels for the second half of the year.
Investments in quality are also continuing to pay off at Becker.
Recently AICPA the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants announced its 2009 Elijah Watt Sells Award winners.
It's actually an award that honors the candidates who scored the highest on the exam.
Now you may remember that last time nine out of 10 of the awardees were Becker grads.
Well this year they increased the total number of winners to 15 because it was tied.
And of the 15 candidates 14 prepared with Becker and that's out of about 80 000 test takers worldwide.
So in the past five years since they've established this award 47 of the 55 winners prepared with Becker.
We're very proud of our students' success and we believe this is a testament to the quality of our products and of our instructors at Becker.
And then finally for our Other Educational Services segment we're continuing to grow DeVry Brasil through investments in programs and new locations.
Currently we're in construction on a new campus building at our Ruy Barbosa School that will feature enhanced program offerings in fast-growing healthcare fields.
And continuous improvements in student services has been a major focus for our schools in Brazil.
This is a good example of utilizing best practices across the DeVry organization.
I mentioned Student Central before where we've taken the success of DeVry University Student Central to begin implementing a similar student services center down in Brazil.
But of course there it's called Coordenadoria de Apoio e Suporte ao Aluno.
And I maybe driving our transcriptionist crazy here but you could just call it CASA for short.
And that means home because this is our students' home for all their support services.
And by increasing the quality of those student services and adding new programs and locations we continue to see a wonderful opportunity to grow DeVry Brasil into the future.
And finally I'd like to mention some management moves over the last quarter that I think illustrate the management bench strength that we continue to grow.
John Roselli smoothly transitioned into his new role as President of Becker in the quarter.
And as you saw we didn't miss a beat.
And he was succeeded by Adriano Allegrini a former McKinsey consultant who has stepped right into the strategic planning and business development role.
And in January Chris Caywood joined us from Kaplan to lead DeVry Online Services as he transitions into his new role overseeing K-12 international and professional education.
I can tell you that given the fact that I have had to spend just a little bit more time in Washington D.C.
of late our strong management team lets me do that and I know that we're minding the store.
And so to summarize our strategies of investing in academic quality and of diversifying our educational offerings continue to position DeVry very well throughout economic cycles and during this time of regulatory activity.
And so we're highly confident that 2011 will be a year of continued growth and successful outcomes for our students.
Let me take a moment to thank all the employees of DeVry.
2010 was a tough year in some respects.
It wasn't easy to keep reading negative articles about private sector schools.
DeVry team members' commitment to our students and to compliance and their continued focus despite all the noise is truly an inspiration to me.
2011 holds a great deal of opportunities for DeVry.
And together we know we'll continue to make a difference in the lives of our students.
Thank you.
And with that I'd like to take our questions.
Joan? Thanks Daniel.
As we move into the Q&amp;A portion of the call I'd like to asked everyone to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up.
I'm sure we have a lot of people in the queue waiting to ask a question and we want try to get to as many of you as possible in the time that we've allotted today.
So Mary if you would go ahead and give our callers the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bob Craig Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I realized you're a better part of the month away from the Session A start for the spring term but I was wondering if you can comment as to whether or not you've seen any changes in trends on inquiry flow overall? Bob this is Daniel.
I would say we haven't seen any real change that I can report to you.
There is -- relative to a year ago or two years ago there's a change.
But in terms of the last couple of months couple of quarters not a real significant change there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And Rick you mentioned some medium exchange.
I was wondering if you could embellish on that and are you increasing your ad spend overall generally? Well the ad spend is going to be higher than prior year but not dramatically out of line with what our plans were that we've been talking all along making adjustments here and there but no major dramatic increases.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And the media mix any embellishment there? Well as Daniel alluded to for example in Carrington shifting away more from brand advertising which we did with the name change more towards the inquiry side of things and within DeVry University trying to focus on inquiry generation and quality inquiry generation.
Your next question comes from the line of Arvind Bhatia Sterne Agee.
Just on your earnings growth projections here for the second half given the comparisons Rick you mentioned it's going to be slower than the first half should we then take the second half trend in general and move forward as we think about fiscal '12? Or do you think that 20% full year growth is what you would longer-term be comfortable with? I'm not asking for guidance but just how you view the world given everything that is going on.
Yes again we don't give guidance.
We give a little bit there with what -- we were above our long-term goal of 20% this year about 30% through the first half.
And we're going to be lower than that for the back half and as I said be right around 20% for the full fiscal year.
And the long-term goal is roughly 20% in each growth and that can vary quarter to quarter year-to-year.
But we don't see anything major that's disrupting that long-term goal but intermediate things can be a little bit lower as they are a little bit higher here up in the first six months.
Your next question comes from the line of Trace Urdan from Signal Hill.
Daniel there was a story in the Times in December about a movement by some medical schools in New York to try to get overseas schools kicked out of the teaching hospitals in New York.
And there's not really been any kind of noise about that since.
And I just wondered if you could offer some commentary there.
Have you been able to talk to the Board of Regents in New York? Do you think this is a material threat in any way? And would it be possible to characterize what that would mean for your institution if New York was sort of off-limits? Here's what's happening.
In New York the State Board of Regents is conducting a review of its processes to approve international medical schools.
And our perspective is that international medical schools play a huge role a vital role in addressing the physician shortage nationwide and certainly New York state is not an exception to that.
And Ross in particular has a strong history in the state since being formerly approved there back in 1994.
So that's the process that's going on.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee of Barclays Capital.
I guess the first question following up on an earlier one how should we -- and I understand you're not giving forward commentary.
But how should we think about how you will handle cost growth and investments if we were to see the recent softening of enrollment trends to last for a couple of terms? In other words are there areas that you'd look to be more aggressive pulling cost out? Or is it much more important for you to continue to make the investments that you're making at this point and maybe be willing to let earnings slow a bit more? The way we look at that is we manage for the long-term and we manage to ensure quality academic program for our students.
I think Ross is a good example since we're just talking about Ross University.
You can't manage a medical school for the quarter.
It's just that -- that does not work that is not what we do.
And so what you do is you continue to make sure that you're making the investments to ensure that those students are getting high-quality academic experience and that you're managing to defend the student outcome.
Because as long as you maintain that quality quality leads to growth.
And because other prospective students see that quality and Ross is a great example of that.
Even though in the early days when we first acquired Ross there was some softness we invested.
We were very open about that.
We said that was going to depress earnings in the near-term but that was going to lead to long-term growth and that's exactly what happened.
The investments we made in quality led to a strong growth in application to Ross University School of Medicine.
We then continued to invest and take that growth and invest in more quality.
And it's like a continuous cycle where quality begets growth begets resources begets quality investments begets growth.
So that's our philosophy.
And we continue to stick to that.
That's a long-term.
Within that there's always this quarter that year you're making management adjustments to make sure you're on course to make sure you're on track that's normal.
But that's the long-term trend.
I think that's the right philosophy but are there some maybe non-student phasing or areas that aren't so critical to students' success in which you're likely to look to either reduce costs or be much more aggressive in not growing cost? I guess I'm just trying to understand is this something you think about? I mean as stewards of owners' capital and as managers here we understand that.
And that's the normal management day-to-day month-to-month quarter-to-quarter management that we're constantly looking at.
If there's an opportunity to run a process more efficiently more effectively that can save money that's great because that can free up resources that could be better invested in somewhere else.
Or in the near-term it might show up on the bottom line.
We're always looking at that in good times and in bad.
And if you have a slow time you double down your efforts to look for areas that are not maybe absolutely critical in that particular period of time maybe cut back a little bit.
Sure we certainly have those opportunities and that's something that we take a look at as a management team.
Your next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
First question how did your view for the second half incorporated any changes that you may be making related to the regulatory environment? And can you give us an update on your thoughts around compensation structures for enrollment advisors? Well compensation structures for enrollment advisors are at base salary.
And I want to be very clear that DeVry -- when I say DeVry without University that means DeVry all of DeVry.
DeVry pays the base salary that's means all the schools of DeVry that are either covered Title IV employees and I'm talking about Becker Professional Education for example or DeVry Brasil for that matter.
And we do have operations that are not subject to the Title IV restrictions and so forth.
The DeVry schools that we're talking about here pay a base salary to enrollment advisors and financial aid professionals.
And so a lot of this talk about incentive compensation is there's a lot of misunderstanding.
A lot of people think that suddenly incentive compensation is banned and that's not the case.
It's been banned since 1992.
And so what the concern that many many schools have around the compensation regulations and of course this applies to all schools public sector private sector like DeVry or independent schools for that matter is that it makes it very difficult to manage it and it sort of treats your base salary as though it were incentive compensation as well.
So you can't do performance management of somebody even in their annual performance review directly or indirectly based on how they do their job.
And we're very -- many schools are also concerned about the potential litigation risk that that could create for colleges and universities.
So those are the things that we're concerned about in that area.
So are you planning for changes to your -- recognizing that you're only paying base salaries are you planning for changes to the comp structure? Nothing that you'd be able to model or see.
I mean there's always management changes there are things that we're looking at in our performance management system.
We'll certainly do everything that we need to do to ensure that we're compliant as we always strive to be at all rules and laws but nothing that would be significant or that would affect your model.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale First Analysis.
I wanted to ask about what you were saying about Ross and the questions that the department has with the Freeport facility.
Can you just elaborate a little bit on what that is? And what the next steps are from here? And if somehow those people who would enroll that would never get Title IV eligibility what your alternatives would be? And that's exactly what we're saying is we're evaluating that.
And so rather than giving us a hypothetical of if this happened what would that mean I'm just saying that we're stepping back and we're reevaluating the role of Freeport in our expansion strategy and our long-term strategy along with all the other parts of the full value chain.
Ross is a 10-semester program four of those semesters happen outside the United States and they come for a fifth semester in Miami and then semester six through 10 through our clinical networks including Miami and Saginaw Michigan and other places.
And so in order to expand you have to expand across that whole chain that whole 10-semester chain.
So where does Freeport fit into that what's the role what's the relative role of it to Dominica and other places is what I'm saying is that we're evaluating.
Rick I think in your commentary you said that particularly we might expect slower growth in Q3 within the context of the 20% that you're talking about.
Did I get that right? And if that's right why would Q3 be particularly slow relative to Q4? It's because you roll things forward.
In terms of the year-over-year comparisons and the investments we made the prior year and what we're going be doing this year Q3 will have a tougher bottom line overlap than Q4.
And so see that the back half of the year is going to likely grow earnings at a slower rate than we saw in the first half with Q3 a little bit lower than what we'll see in Q4.
Next question comes from the line of Peter Appert Piper Jaffray.
So Daniel just a follow-up on the Freeport situation.
Is the implication that potentially if Title IV is not going to be available but it perhaps doesn't really make sense to have that location? And then secondly I'm wondering is the profitability of the Ross operation broadly impacted longer-term by having to run the operation differently without that capacity? Yes.
What it might mean is if the students who attend Freeport are not eligible for Title IV not just to Freeport but subsequently then yes that would be a change.
It's not an understanding of the way -- that wasn't our understanding.
Some questions have been raised and we just need to work through that.
So it's an open question is what I'm saying.
And the other part of your question is that yes that could create some changes so you have options.
You could use the institutional loan program which we have and you could really do that.
We have a very very low default rates on loans with medical students so that's certainly something that's within our capability to do.
You can extend capacity with approvals from our regulators and our creditors in Dominica and in other places.
So there's a number of options and that's why I just wanted to give you thaat color that we're taking this opportunity to sort of step back and re-evaluate the whole chain the whole 10-semester chain and see where does it make sense to invest.
Because we know that there is a steady long-term demand that's not a constraint on growth.
Right now our constraint is our own capacity so we're trying to figure out what's the best way to deploy resources to address that so we can continue to have solid steady moderate growth at Ross University School of Medicine.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ginocchio from Deutsche Bank.
just question on Pell Grants are you concerned at all about the Republicans in the House and their ability or their willingness to fund the continued growth in Pell Grants? We don't have any concern there.
There's nothing that's been indicated to us that would give us a cause for concern.
And Pell Grants are of course a very important programs serving low-income students.
And that's something that students take advantage of across all sectors of higher education.
As the money goes to the student of course and they can apply those funds at any accredited program whether the school whether that's in the public sector the private sector or any independent school.
And just a follow-up what percentage of revenue is from Pell? I don't have a figure on top of my head.
Yes.
We don't break Pell out separately but within the overall the fed-related it's about 75% of our total revenues and Pell is part of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Schneeberger from Oppenheimer.
Could you speak a little bit Daniel please to persistence and the Student Central initiatives and domestically and perhaps now that's in Brazil what impacts that's having? Question was about persistence? Yes exactly.
And just the Student Central initiative domestically now in Brazil that impact.
And then just overall maybe if you could help us a little bit in the second half and if you think that's going to remain strong? Yes.
We are encouraged by the investments that we've been making and student support.
And we have good evidence and data that says that for example DeVry University spends more invests more in student support services by a good margin than most universities in the United States on a per student basis.
And that's important because many of the students that we serve are first in their family to go to college or other types of students that are sometimes called non-traditional which is kind of funny because they're now 75% of all college students.
So the non-traditional I guess is the traditional and they need more support.
They need more student services and so some of the services that are in Student Central are academic advising what course do I take next making sure that the credits they take are productive credits.
They're not taking -- and sometimes your kid goes to college and they're taking way more credits that they needed to graduate and that's why it takes them five or six years.
So we put a lot of investments to be sure that our students have the ability to graduate on time.
Many of our students graduate for the four-year bachelor's degree in three years at Chamberlain College of Nursing and DeVry University.
Part-time jobs student housing student-wife clubs all those kinds of things and of course some student financial aid and advising there are all part of Student Central.
And so by providing that we went through a pretty rigorous process of piloting the concept at a small number of campuses.
And we looked at the list in retention and other measures of student transactions and student success.
And when we saw that that was positive then and only then did we start to roll it out.
And now it's being rolled out to all DeVry University locations.
And now based on that best practice we're sharing that in creating CASA down in Brazil.
And we expect that to have a positive result too.
So yes I would say that going forward into the next half of the year we do expect to have continued improvement in student persistence and student transaction.
And in Advanced Academics you mentioned progress in New York and Texas but just curious if you could give us some color on that? And then just curious on how aggressive you're going to be in that area given some budget pressures for the foreseeable future? Well it's not how aggressive we're going to be.
This is maybe linked to an earlier question about making management adjustments and pulling back and so forth.
We have a little bit Advanced Academics we've scaled back a little bit and said "Look we're going to really focus and maybe not grow quite as fast and focus on what we have and make sure that we're doing a really good job there and try to improve the economic bottom line at Advanced Academics." And so that is the focus that we have.
So we are in a situation where in many states probably the majority of the states the budget situation is tough.
And that has led to reducing some of their online programs.
And we think that's a short-term phenomenon.
Long-term we think that flips around and districts increasing look to technology and look to online as a way to deal with constrained resources.
If you can't run summer school maybe you can do online to supplement what you weren't able to do in the physical school if the school has been shut down for the summer.
It's just one example of how they might think about using online as a solution to budget pressures.
So I think in near-term the budget pressures are not our friend.
Long-term it could turn around and actually help create more demand for online high school courses.
Your next question comes from the line of James Samford Citigroup.
Can you remind us what the advertising expense as a percentage of revenue was this quarter? And any changes that have happened in terms of whether it's lead gen mix et cetera? Well some of the changes have been -- at DeVry University it's been a shift a little bit more towards the branding that we talked about in lead career university as well the DeVry-Keller 80th anniversary spending so a little bit more in broad-based media including television.
Whereas it's a little bit different story at for example Carrington College where we are focused on -- we were doing a little bit more of the branding because of the name change.
And now it's getting back a little bit to more of the direct marketing sources.
So that's the little color on how some of the shift is going.
And as a percent of revenues this quarter? Well the total advertising spend was about $186 million in the quarter.
That's wrong.
The total advertising spend is about $51 million in the quarter.
Quick question on the nursing side or the Medical and Healthcare.
I believe you said Carrington and Ross were the primary sources of margin declines in that segment.
Should we think about when Ross turns the corner on growth as a potential inflection point for margins? Or is nursing a structurally lower margin piece that we should just sort of expect declines in margin over time as that business continues to be invested in? Over the past several quarters we've seen margin deterioration because of mix within the segment.
Ross has got the highest margin and Carrington is lower and then Chamberlain at somewhere in between.
And there's a lot of things going on within Chamberlain.
As we grow and open new locations there's absolutely underwriting in the first year or two for those new locations.
So that's influencing the pace of growth of margin expansion in Chamberlain as well.
So what's going on here near-term is Chamberlain's growing and expanding margins but the mix impact is a negative and then we're seeing some compression of margins at Ross and Carrington due to the trends.
You have a question from the line of Bob Wetenhall RBC.
LLC</strong> Just wanted to see if you could get a little bit more granular in how you think Student Service and Administrative Expenses will trend as a percentage of sales into the back half of the year? And if you could provide any color as well on the Project Delta if those costs will filter into the Cost of Educational Services for capitalizing those costs and what we should expect for that line item? Somebody asked earlier about the pace of growth and earnings.
And part of it is because we'll continue to see growth in SS&amp;A costs in the third quarter and then not as much in the fourth as we overlap again investments that were made last year in the fourth quarter.
And Project Delta will be -- as these modules get implemented you begin to depreciating those capital investments on a go-forward basis.
And so we've already completed two modules have a couple more to go.
And as they get completed they get depreciated through the cost of instruction.
LLC</strong> So just on that are you trying to say that Student Services and Administrative Expenses are growing in line with the growth in sales or a little bit slower? And I'm just trying to understand because I know you guys have a big focus on efficiency if there some cost-reduction initiatives in the background that I'm not picking up on? Well expect to.
That has been our goal.
To date we've been able to grow our revenues at a faster pace than Student Service and Administrative Expense.
The growth on revenue given student enrollments as we said is going to start to see some deceleration as it has in the second quarter compared to the first.
We'll probably see that again in the third and fourth.
And we'll strive to get more efficiency in SS&amp;A but that delta will diminish.
Again more in the third quarter than the fourth.
LLC</strong> Will the delta diminish also in that Cost of Educational Services as well? There we've been able to make nice progress over the past several years.
And we're now at a point as we're investing in academics whether it be programs and technology such as Project Delta that will limit the expansion possibilities there for the gross margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman JPMorgan.
I wanted to ask a question about the DeVry inquiry flow.
Rick when you described -- I think you said something about quality was that an internal shift at DeVry University to look for more quality leads? And if so how do you guys define quality leads? No there hasn't been a shift.
It's been a focus over the past it's always been a focus but more so in the past quarters.
And looking for leads that are going to have a better chance of converting that's how we define leads those prospective students that we think will attend and succeed at our schools.
Has there been more competition for those type of leads that you have been looking for? Yes there has been more competition obviously in the marketplace.
That's part of the external factors that Daniel was alluding to earlier.
Your next question comes from the line of Gordon Lasic Robert W.
Baird.
First on admission advisors can you provide an update on your staffing levels currently? I think last quarter you said you were below target.
And I'm wondering if you still have more hiring to do at this point? Yes.
We're pretty much in the same situation there.
It's much to do with allocation of resources to the right place.
You're over here we're under there this team versus that team.
So that's a part of it as well Gordon.
And then just a quick one on pricing can you remind us what your average price increases has been historically for your various schools? And if you expect any material changes over the next couple of years? No material changes.
There will be tuition increases.
But the rate of increase I'd say would be relatively in line in a particular year at Chamberlain Ross DeVry.
Roughly in line with what we see in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell William Blair.
I wonder how much -- I guess maybe confidence is the right word to use here.
How much confidence you guys have in the visibility program level detail around all this regulatory stuff? I know you've got great visibility on starting salaries for some part of the organization.
How will you be able to work through some of the kind of roadblock being thrown up there in terms of the limitation or definitions of the deal we may be using? Well Brandon it's hard to answer that question because we don't know what new regulation we may see in the second part of this so-called gainful employment rules.
But in general I would say that our level of program level detail is good.
We have good systems good information systems.
We have a lot of history we have very very strong people in our regulatory area in our student finance and mutual aid [ph] area.
And that's why I've been amazed at the kinds of analyses that they've been able to produce.
And whereas I heard that some others that had spend millions of dollars to comply with data requests from the government and so forth that it was certainly not fun.
But we're able to produce this without having to spend millions of dollars or anything approaching that.
So I think our systems are good I think our practices are sound I think our values and the culture here are all such that.
We are confident as I mentioned in the opening remarks that whatever regulations that we may see we have a sense that we'll be able to deal with those.
And it's not making a prediction it's not saying we know what they are it's just -- we have a feeling that we should be able to manage in that environment.
And then a follow-up would be looking at a couple of years what do you expect Carrington to look like given there's a lot back and forth on all kinds of things in that segment just more broadly than even just about your business.
But is there a particular kind of positioning that you want to have that segment lock into? And does that look the same as when you purchased the asset a couple of years ago? And the vision for Carrington is to continue to expand and grow to meet the needs at the pre-baccalaureate level particularly in healthcare fields the allied health and ancillary care but not exclusively.
And that growth the vision for that is to grow geographically.
So part of that vision would be not just 20 campuses in seven states out west but dozens of campuses across United States ultimately.
There would be continued new program development with an emphasis on healthcare programs but not exclusively there's some other programs as well.
And then the third dimension of growth would be online.
And we've launched organically an online capability to Carrington leveraging our internal shared services our online services group.
And so we think there's a real synergy there.
And so those are the kinds of things that are in the future at least our vision for the future for Carrington.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Silber BMO Capital Markets.
I wanted to follow up on the Professional Education segment.
You mentioned the influx in Becker due to the new CPA Exam can you quantify what that was in the quarter and what we should look for in terms of "normalized growth" in that business going forward? Jeff it's Rick.
That's a difficult one to try and pinpoint exactly what was advanced sales versus the normal flow.
I guess I wasn't here the last time we went through a change from paper to computer system.
But they saw a similar trend where there was a surge before the change and then a little bit of a lull and then back on normal.
We're just anticipating that a lot of activity that was pent-up waiting for the new exam that got shipped out in November and December will soften a little bit in the next few months and then get back to normal thereafter.
But I don't have a specific number I wish I did.
But we're watching it we'll obviously have a better feel as we get into it.
But we expect that to be a timing issue.
Just a couple of quick numbers questions.
For tax rates will you be using that 34.5% for the rest of the year? Right now that's the number that we use for the quarter and for the half.
We do have a few things going on in the back half of the year but we think they're going to be probably offset one another.
So 34.5% is a good number.
And just on Freeport can you give us an indication on how many students you have there? No.
We haven't broken that out so I don't have a number for you Jeff sorry.
Your next question comes from the line of Ariel Sokol UBS.
The first one Daniel when you're at the Durbin Forum back in August you mentioned that you're working on an educational quality index presumably working with Representative Andrews what is the status of that? And can you speak kind of what we could see over the coming months? We are continuing to work on that.
We're working with others in higher education across all sectors actually public sector people we talk to private sector fellow travelers and independent schools as well.
And I'm attending a conference next week where that's going to be a topic.
We've talk to people in some of the think tanks and other sort of influencers in the discussion.
So that continues.
And I think it kind of centers around graduation rates employment more acceptance to grad school which everyone the students going to graduate maybe going to.
There's also repayment of loans and in pass rates on licensure exams for programs where's that applicable like nursing or medicine accounting CPA exam that kind of thing.
So I would say those four areas are four areas of metrics that you could form an educational accountability framework around.
And those are the four areas that I'm hearing a lot of momentum getting behind.
There's many many other metrics that you could use.
And there's many metrics for example of learning outcome or other metrics of quality.
But those are generally I think seen as the purview of the accreditors.
We need to make sure of course that we have strong accreditors and stronger accrediting standards.
And I'm sure that will be the case.
But when you try to create a framework what Representative Andrews has promulgated that is going to be a framework for holding schools accountable in being good stewards of the federal student aid.
I think those four areas the graduation the employment the pass rates on the key exams and the default or repayment of debt those are probably the four areas that you'd want to build a framework around.
So a lot of good thinking has going into that.
I think you'll see more as we go on.
And the next step of course would then be reauthorization of the Higher Education Act and then it comes around again.
And I think that's probably where some of these ideas could take flight.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Appert Piper Jaffray.
Daniel and Rick I was wondering if you have any early read on CDR number? Well it's our policy and I think most -- I hope it's everyone's policy not to comment on things until they're final.
And so we're going to stick to that.
And the preliminary rates will come out soon.
I guess they usually come out in February and they get finalized in September and so we'll comment on them when they're final.
It's in fact not everyone's policy.
Well it should be everyone's policy.
And that's going to be our policy we're going to stick to it.
But I appreciate the question and understand why you're asking.
But we just think it doesn't serve -- likewise others have sort of speculated on the outcome of regulation or how it's going to impact specifically.
We'll do this or do that.
It's just never a good idea.
And I hope people understand.
I know it can be frustrating sometimes.
But that's why we follow that policy and encourage others to do the same.
Thank you.
There are no other questions at this time.
And I would like to hand the call over to Daniel Hamburger for closing remarks.
Well thank you Mary and thank you all for your questions.
Just a reminder that our next conference call is scheduled for April 26 when we'll announce the third quarter and spring enrollment results.
Thank you all for your continued support of DeVry.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to DeVry's Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
My name is Alicia and I will be your coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Alicia.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rick Gunst Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker Vice President and Controller.
I'll now review the Safe Harbor provisions of this call.
This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
Such forward-looking statements reflect among other things management's current expectations plans and strategies and anticipated financial results all of which are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Please see our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information about forward-looking statements and related risk factors.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until May 10 2011.
To access replays please refer to today's release for information.
I'll now turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today for our fiscal 2011 third quarter results call.
I will give a brief introduction and then Rick and Pat will discuss our financial and enrollment results.
And then I'll review a few operational highlights in the quarter before we open it up to questions.
Well here we are 3 quarters into what is turning out to be a good year and I'd like to address what's driving that.
So today I'll start out talking about what we're doing to enhance academic quality which is core to our central mission of helping our students achieve their educational and career goals.
This emphasis on academic quality obviously begins with our Board of Directors chaired by Dr.
Harold Shapiro who believe deeply in our investments in academic quality and they work closely with senior management through the academic committee of our board and that's chaired by Dr.
Connie Curran.
This committee is responsible to ensuring quality at each of our schools and they meet regularly.
They assess progress and identify areas for improvements and collaboration across our colleges.
They encourage investments in our programs and classroom technology and services and in people.
Just some examples of those types of investments that we made this quarter.
We're building a joint simulation center that will be used by both Ross and Chamberlain students at our new Miami Florida location this summer.
A good example of how we're providing our students with the latest technology and educational tools.
The second example is building on the career services success that's achieved at the undergraduate level of DeVry University.
We're taking that a step further for our graduate students to a partnership that we recently announced with CareerBuilder.
This partnership will provide Keller graduates additional resources to find employment or also to advance their careers including access to a personal career coach.
The third example is we're also making investments in our people.
Earlier this quarter we announced the appointment of Dr.
Joe Flaherty as Dean of Ross University School of Medicine.
Dr.
Flaherty comes to us from the University of Illinois College of Medicine.
U of I is the largest U.S.
medical school and it has 4 locations.
So Dr.
Flaherty brings experience in running a multi-location med school.
We're excited to have someone of Dr.
Flaherty's reputation leading the way as we continue to enhance the quality of our medical program.
These ongoing investments in quality of our programs services and people continue to drive strong student outcomes and solid financial results.
This spring total enrollment across all of our degree-granting schools was up 7.6% from a year ago to nearly 130 000 students.
This result points out the success of our diversification strategy while we're currently experiencing some softness within DeVry University undergraduate and at Carrington the growth at our other colleges is offsetting that.
So again our strategy is focused on high-quality academics in a diversified position.
Beyond the investments we're making in our colleges we're also participating in several important discussions that will help shape the future of higher education.
One is a group of colleges including DeVry from all sectors of higher education that's working with the Gates Foundation to develop a set of metrics that will help the public and policymakers better understand student outcomes across all colleges and universities whether it's public sector private sector or independent.
This group is developing metrics in the areas of completion cost and return on investment for students.
And the second is participation in the forum that will be hosted by Senator Dick Durbin and Representative Danny Davis later this week to examine solutions decrease student debt and default rates and ensuring the value proposition for these degrees that students earn upon graduation.
But before I turn the call over I'd like to emphasize that all of these efforts are rooted in our belief that we only succeed when our students do.
This belief underpins our operating philosophy namely that "Quality Leads to Growth".
Let me give an example of that.
Since we acquired Chamberlain College of Nursing 6 years ago we've invested over $20 million in academic quality and growth initiatives.
As result our students' performance on their licensing exams has improved.
And these results enhance Chamberlain's reputation and lead to growth in applications.
And as our enrollments grow so do our financial results.
This gives us even more resources to invest back in the academic quality and growth initiatives.
Those are reinforcing cycles where quality leads to growth.
This philosophy has served the hundreds of thousands of student we've educated over our long history.
This is why we'll continue our unwavering commitment to quality in everything we do.
So with that brief overview I'd like to turn the call over to Rick and Pat for the financial results.
Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
I want to take a few minutes to highlight our enrollment and financial results for the third quarter and first 9 months of fiscal 2011.
Third quarter revenue of about $563 million was up about 12% versus prior year and up 16% year-to-date.
Revenue growth was driven by total enrollment growth of 7.6% across our degree-granting educational institutions.
After-tax net income of $93 million in the quarter increased 14% and earnings per share of $1.32 increased 18% versus last year.
Earnings per share were up 25% year-to-date.
We have referenced third quarter results include expense related to share-based payments of approximately $2.9 million pretax or $2.5 million net of tax.
Our overall effective tax rate was 32.3% for the quarter and 33.7% year-to-date up from 32.1% for the full year fiscal 2010 primarily due to the increase in domestic source income.
The tax rate was lower by about 220 basis points in the third quarter due to a one-time impact from certain incremental tax deductions from prior years.
Note that our income tax provision for the first 9 months of the year was about $130 million and we had $91 million of capital spending invested in our schools.
Cost of Educational Service expense increased by 9% versus prior year in the quarter and Student Services and Administrative Expense increased by about 15%.
We continue to invest resources to drive academic quality and enhanced student services consistent with our philosophy of "Quality Leads to Growth".
With that let me now walk you through some of the key highlights of our operating segment results which are further detailed in the release.
First the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was up about 13% versus prior year in the quarter and 18% year-to-date.
The revenue growth came down a bit in the quarter due to softening new student enrollments as undergraduate new student enrollments were down 15% versus prior year in the spring with total enrollment up about 6%.
Keep in mind that we're overlapping very strong new student growth of 24% from the spring of last year.
If you take a step back from the peaks and valleys and look at the long-term trend the compounding of growth rate over the past 3 to 4 years is in the 7% to 8% range which is right in line with our prior long-term expectations.
The new enrollment growth is growing and that was the expected after achieving 9 consecutive semesters with growth of 10% or more.
And while we're actually happy with these results and there are broader external factors at play here we believe the supply-demand relationship and the value proposition of our programs at DeVry University undergraduate and graduate remain strong over the long term.
Enrollment at the graduate-level grew about 9% for both the January and March assessment.
Segment earnings were up 16% in the quarter and 29% year-to-date driven by continued operating leverage and increased efficiencies.
At the same time we delivered these results we've been making appropriate investments in academics new program developments and new location expansions the benefits of which we will see beyond this year.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up 7.5% in the quarter and about 12% year-to-date driven primarily by the strong growth within Chamberlain College of Nursing.
Chamberlain's new student enrollment was up about 32% in the spring term with total enrollment up 48%.
This growth was driven by the impact of the enrollment at our 3 new locations this year Chicago and Arlington Virginia which opened in July 2010 and Houston which just started teaching in March.
Chamberlain's growth is also driven by continued increased enrollment at our existing locations and online due to continued strong demand for nursing professionals.
As expected Ross University new student enrollment declined about 8% for the January class due to capacity constraints within the medical school campus in Dominica but total enrollment was up 3%.
As we look forward new student enrollment growth rates are likely to rebound and bounce around a bit but for the purpose of your models you should expect total enrollment to be in the mid-single digits.
Meanwhile enrollment at Carrington continue to decline with new student enrollments down about 23% and total enrollments down 15% driven by the challenging market and countercyclical nature of many of Carrington's programs resulting in lower inquiry volume and conversion rates.
Segment earnings in the quarter came in as expected down about 5% versus prior year and down slightly year-to-date which reflects Chamberlain's growth offset by lower enrollment at Ross and Carrington.
Cost containment initiatives have helped lessen the impact of these lower enrollments.
Within our Professional Education segment revenue was up 7.5% in the quarter and about 12% year-to-date.
Revenue in the quarter remained in the high-single digits despite the unusually high revenue growth last quarter in advance with the CPA exam change.
We anticipate hiring within the accounting and the finance fields to continue to improve slowly but don't expect the market improvement in performance until hiring ramps up further.
Segment earnings in the quarter were up 12% and up 24% year-to-date.
Lastly our other Educational Services segment revenues were up 18.5% in the quarter driven by very strong growth at DeVry Brasil.
New student enrollments increased 41% and total enrollment grew 16% in the latest term which is the main enrollment period in Brazil.
The growth was driven by our enhanced admissions processes and best practice sharing such as implementation of the Student Central concept which we call CASA in Brazil.
Advanced Academics revenue was up modestly in the quarter due to continued state budget pressures.
And earnings for the segment were $2.5 million better than prior year in the quarter and about $1 million better than last year for the nine-month period.
Let me summarize this information in our segments as follows: While enrollment slowed at DeVry University undergrad and declined at Carrington we grew at Keller at Chamberlain at Ross and at DeVry Brasil.
I think this really shows the value of our diversification strategy as well as our ability to manage our schools for the long-term.
At that point we'd continually reallocate resources and reduce costs where needed without impacting academic quality or student services.
This balance allows us to deliver the results we've discussed and continue to invest in quality and future growth.
But before I turn the call over to Pat with just 1 more quarter to go in fiscal 2011 we're in good shape to have another strong year.
Looking ahead to the next fiscal year the impact of the softer enrollment environment within DeVry University and Carrington will be mitigated by growth within Chamberlain Ross and DeVry Brasil.
While enrollment growth is trending back to more long-term levels we still believe we can continue to deliver top- and bottom-line growth.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Pat to review our cash flow and balance sheet.
Thanks Rick and good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the first 9 months was $485 million versus $481 million last year.
Cash flow was up only slightly versus prior year due to the timing of receivable receipts in the month of March.
This strong cash generation drove our cash and marketable security balance to $599 million at the end of the quarter as compared to $502 million last year.
We also remained debt-free during the quarter compared to having outstanding debt of $45 million last year.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $224 million versus $156 million last year.
This increase was mainly timing related resulting from a delay in March of the receipt of funds for DeVry University undergraduate students.
DeVry University's cohort default rate of 10.2% was slightly above the Department of Education's 10% threshold thus resulting in a couple of weeks delay.
We expect accounts receivable balances to be back in line with year-ago levels at the end of the fiscal year.
Receivables were in line aside from this timing issue that hit us right at the end of the quarter.
Our bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with bad debt expense for the first 9 months of the year actually down to 2.7% of revenue as compared to 3.1% last year an indicator of our students paying back their accounts and the strong value proposition of our program.
Capital spending was $91 million for the first 9 months versus $102 million last year.
We anticipate the rate of spending to continue to pick up this quarter and expect spending to be around $150 million this fiscal year give or take depending on the timing of activity between June of this fiscal year and July of next.
This high rate of spending is being driven by facility improvements to better serve our students across all of our schools new locations planned at DeVry University and expansion within Ross University and Chamberlain College of Nursing so that we can educate more doctors and nurses in this great time of need.
Finally during the quarter we repurchased 571 000 shares of our common stock for $29 million or on average $50.82 per share.
We have completed about 2/3 of our fifth program leaving just about $20 million remaining under this $50 million program.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel for some more color on our operating results.
Thanks Pat.
Let me start off by discussing how we're managing our resources in our Business Technology and Management segment which of course consists of DeVry University and its Keller Graduate School of Management.
We've been preparing for normalization of enrollment back to the long-term trend and we're improving processes and reducing cost in some areas while redeploying resources in others to continue to improve the value proposition to our students and to enhance academic quality.
One area of particular focus is investment in improving the freshman year experience.
We're also putting in place mechanisms to better track academic outcomes.
We recently implemented direct assessment measures that will help us to better gauge our student success early in their academic careers.
From these programs we hope to improve our student retention as we help them to achieve their academic goals.
We're also investing in faculty development and training.
This week we're holding our annual faculty symposium where DeVry University's thought leaders will learn from one another through white paper presentations on topics such as student retention and blended learning models.
I'm really looking forward to spending time with the group this week.
And a quick update on new location at DeVry University.
Our campus in the Houston Metro opens in March and we plan to open 2 additional campuses in July 1 in the Los Angeles and 1 in the Seattle Metro.
Moving on to our Medical and Healthcare segment Ross continues to experience strong demand given the overwhelming need for veterinarians and physicians in the United States.
At Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine for the last several years we've been working on achieving an additional level of accreditation from the American Veterinary Medical Association the AVMA.
We're very proud to report that we received full seven-year accreditation from the AVMA.
This prestigious accreditation is the gold standard in veterinary medicine and reflects the investments that we've made in academic quality and student services.
At Ross University School of Medicine we've had capacity constraints in Dominica as Rick mentioned earlier and we've been making investments to address that.
We just opened a new academic center with a state-of-the-art simulation lab.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we're continuing to see strong demand across all our programs.
We believe the success at Chamberlain is a direct result of the investments that we continue to make in both programs and new markets.
We're in the process of launching a new informatics program certification which will provide students with education in patient electronic record and other technology-related healthcare services.
This year has become an increasing focus as the healthcare industry continues to move towards digitization.
We also expect to launch a new DNP that's a Doctorate of Nursing Practice degree during fiscal 2012 and of course that's pending approval.
On the second half of the year we'll be opening several new locations in addition to our co-location with DeVry University in Houston which just opened in March we're opening a new location in Miramar Florida with DeVry University and Ross' clinical site this summer.
Next fiscal year we're targeting a new location in Indianapolis and a co-location with DeVry University in Atlanta.
In the past we've mentioned that our target has been to open 1 to 2 new locations at Chamberlain a year.
With the increased demand we're seeing for skilled nurses we've invested in the infrastructure and the management team to do more.
And we're now aspiring to open 2 to 3 new locations going forward.
Actually that reminds me of the story I was in a meeting when somebody asked Susan Groenwald the President of Chamberlain "What's the secret sauce to Chamberlain's ability to open so many new locations in the last few years?" Without hesitation she immediately shot back "The secret sauce is quality.
We're very proud of Chamberlain's growing reputation for quality." And then lastly in the Healthcare area at Carrington Colleges I'd like to give a little color on what we're doing to improve our results.
We've experienced some challenges here namely some execution issues associated with the name change and other internal factors but we have a performance-improvement plan in place.
Our plan centers on enhancing our students' experience optimizing our marketing process and building new locations.
During the quarter we expanded the use of simulation for our students with an offering that we branded "The Simulink [ph] Experience".
We've been receiving positive feedback from our campus test pilot in Albuquerque and in Mesa Arizona.
In marketing we're investing in the qualification center in Phoenix to improve response time to prospective students.
This is expected to be operational in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
And our new location in the Dallas Metro is on track to open later this year.
We'll keep you posted on our progress.
We believe in Carrington's long-term growth prospects given the large demand for allied health and ancillary care professionals throughout the United States.
Separately Rob Paul will be taking over as President of Carrington Colleges this summer succeeding George Montgomery who will be retiring.
Rob has demonstrated strong operational expense at DeVry University and he's a proven leader.
We absolutely love promoting from within.
So we're just thrilled for Rob and for the whole Carrington team.
Now moving on to our Other Educational Services segment to comment about DeVry Brasil where we experienced notable enrollment growth that significantly outpace the overall Brazilian market.
And this was largely driven by sharing best practices from DeVry University at the DeVry Brasil campuses.
It really is a great example of creating value through an acquisition and then sharing operating experience and infrastructure know-how to drive growth.
The DeVry Brasil is very much on plan.
In year 1 we set strategy and focused on integration.
In year 2 we executed the plan including implementing these best practices and now with year 3 we're starting to see the benefits of the plan.
Going forward we'll continue to focus on quality such as by expanding faculty training.
Then we'll add course offerings and locations.
We're currently building out a new facility at our Ruy Barbosa College and we're undertaking our first organic expansion in the city of Sao Luiz in northeast Brazil.
So to summarize our focus on academic quality continues to position DeVry as a leader in providing high-quality education to our students.
This focus coupled with our diversification strategy supports long-term growth and continues to serve us well.
But before I open it up to questions I'd like to recognize and say thank you to all of my coworkers at DeVry their commitment to our students is the foundation of our success.
So with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
Great.
There are a number of people in the queue waiting to ask questions so we're just going to ask everyone to just ask 1 and then jump right back in the queue so that we can get as many of you as possible.
Alicia if you'll give the instructions for the participants we'll begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Could you just talk a little bit about -- obviously there's a lot of factors impacting new student enrollment across the various businesses but could you just give us kind of your high-level current thinking on the magnitude of the impact things like internal challenges versus the economy versus competition et cetera? Corey thank you.
And clearly that varies by programmatic area as well as by level of education.
And so where we're seeing more of the challenge or the biggest challenge would be in the shorter programs like Carrington Colleges offer.
So certificate and associate degree programs.
And those exhibit the most countercyclical pattern of any of the programs that you see out there in higher education.
And so it's not surprising as we've seen unemployment start to moderate a little bit that you see the trend here.
And it is quite a different picture at the other end of the spectrum in medical school and veterinary medicine where the growth trends sort of continue at a steady rate.
And there we have our own internal issue of our capacity constraint in Dominica that we're working through but in terms of gross demand the question is not countercyclical at all similarly in nursing.
And then other programs sort of fall in between.
And then last I just commented DeVry University part of this is as we've mentioned 10 semesters in a row of double-digit increases that's not in line with the long-term trends.
So as we've been saying for a little while we expect things to moderate back to the long-term trend in the single-digits and I think that's where we expect things to settle out.
In the graduate school Keller Graduate School of Management is continuing to do at a very nice rate.
So trying to cover the waterfront here it's just a variety of factors and it hits different programs differently depending on their length and their level and the curriculum area that they're in.
All right.
I'll get back in the queue.
Thanks.
And the next question comes from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Just wanted to touch on the Healthcare side.
I guess on the Nursing side you were facing some pretty significant comps here or tough comps here and yet the deceleration was pretty modest.
I was wondering how much is new location-driven and if you could touch on sort of what's going on in the online space in that segment? Is that a key driver of growth? Yes feel free to chime in here if I miss something Pat and Rick.
Remember that here what's going on with Chamberlain we have a relatively small number of campuses and so you're adding 2 or 3 campuses on a smaller base.
Whereas at DeVry University you have nearly a hundred campuses and even if you added 4 or 5 or 6 it's on a much bigger base.
So I think that helps to explain some of the arithmetic on the growth rate.
And so we've added new campuses and you're seeing the maturation of campuses that opened up say a year ago.
So that's definitely a driver.
You also do have the online part and that's where we do the post licensure program.
So again on site on campus is your pre-licensure program primarily your Bachelor of Science in Nursing.
And then online you have your -- the RN to BSN completion program and have your MSN Masters of Science in Nursing.
So pretty high growth rates on the MSN because it's a relatively new program it just started a couple of years ago and so it's growing nicely on smaller numbers so it gives you those large arithmetic growth rates.
So I think those are some of the factors that are driving Chamberlain's growth.
Great.
Thanks.
And the next question comes from the line of Mike Tarkan with FBR.
Just following up on Corey's question can you maybe talk about the competitive landscape for new students at DeVry and Carrington specifically and kind of how that compares to let's say 6 months ago and then maybe a couple of years ago.
From a competitive landscape perspective I don't see more competition materially.
I think it's really more a -- so I don't see us losing share.
We don't have any evidence of that.
And it's certainly possible.
And we're going to continue to monitor and analyze that.
So I appreciate your question.
It's a good question something that we need to continue to look at.
We don't think we're losing share.
We think it's more of a general -- a function of the overall market which I commented on to Corey's question.
Okay.
Thanks.
And the next question comes from the line of Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Some of your peers have noted a sharp uptick in student acquisition cost.
Can you talk about trends you're seeing in terms of cost per inquiry and has your overall marketing budget changed as enrollments have slowed? I'll take that.
I mean I think our cost per inquiry has been up modestly.
And cost per start up a little bit more than that but still not up more than single digits.
So we haven't seen any market uptick with that.
We have been making additional investments in brand awareness and brand programs beyond just the acquisition of inquiries.
But we haven't seen the same phenomena that you mentioned.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Maria Karahalis with Goldman Sachs.
I believe last quarter you had commented that you had been understaffed in some of your admissions teams during the fall recruiting period and enrollment has been a bit softer at DeVry University.
Can you give us an update on whether you believe you're right-sized today and have staff in the right seats? Generally speaking we worked on that issue.
We have gone ahead and hired the people that we needed to.
But of course [ph] I put it back into the normal course of constantly balancing your resources relative to your demand.
Some of those people might be a little bit newer so -- and there's some other internal execution issues when you certainly are not satisfied with the performance and have plans to go to work to do a better job.
If I can just ask a clarifying question does that mean that despite the enrollment softness at DeVry University you would expect to keep a similar number of admission staff in that particular -- to support DeVry University? Yes we don't have anything to report in terms of an action there.
And questions like that I always have to put into the same category as are you going to do an acquisition or are you going to do this or are you going to do that? There's no guarantees in life but short of a guarantee I would say no just the normal course.
Understood.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Just 2 questions or 1 question about incentive compensation.
Can you just talk about where you are on changing the plan to fit with the new regulations and what if any impact that would have on enrollment trends going forward.
Thanks Paul.
And of course when it comes to compensation regulations we've been compliant.
We are compliant and we will continue to be compliant with the regulations in that area.
So we do not pay a bonus or commission or anything like that today.
And I'm not trying to tell you you don't know but I know there's been a lot of misunderstandings and misinformation out there so just take the opportunity to clarify that.
But we will be making some changes to our performance management systems and processes in the areas that are covered under the Title IV regulation.
And yes that could have some distraction for our folks.
We do have people working on changes.
And so that certainly could be 1 of the factors that are included when I say internal factors earlier.
But to this point I haven't seen that as a major driver but it's a factor and we just have to see where we go in the future.
Great.
If I could just sneak in a follow-up.
Is there any way to quantify what percentage of your student inquiries or new enrollment comes from lead aggregators versus referrals? I don't have a number or color to give you on that.
It's been declining as a percent of the mix less and less from lead aggregators across our schools than what we had in the past.
Is it safe to say majority is from referrals? No.
I wouldn't say the majority is from student referral no.
The majority is from the outreach and communications and advertising.
Yes.
We get more and more from our advertising that's for sure.
I mean we've increased the brand awareness efforts and that isn't a specific aggregator or inquiry generation result in itself but it does drive people to the website that drives inquiries.
Thanks a lot.
And the next question comes from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Dan the company has done an impressive job in terms of holding even improving margins here as revenue growth has slowed.
So I'm wondering if 1 you see any possible need perhaps to be a little more aggressive on the cost side of the equation given the trends of slowing starts and enrollments that you outlined? And 2 just on a longer-term basis where you have comfort in terms of where you think the margins can and should be? Yes I think the way we think about that is first and foremost by remembering the philosophy that we talked about of "Quality Leads to Growth " even though growth is moderating back to the long-term trend there's still growth.
And we want to continue to grow and to serve more students who need the kind of career-focused education that we provide.
And the only way to do that is to continue to invest in quality.
So even though there's a moderation we wouldn't look at just managing for the short term to maintain a certain margin for this quarter or for that quarter.
So that's really the most important thing to keep in mind.
At the same time we're good stewards of our fellow owners' capital and we look at opportunities to be more efficient in the use of our resources and how can we maybe find a more efficient streamlined process over here that and yes reduce the cost of doing something.
But typically the first thing then we'll do is look to gradually redeploy those resources we invest at and the quality initiative or growth initiatives.
And sometimes in a particular period of time it may fall to the bottom line.
But our first inclination is to look to where can we redeploy those resources for positive returns positive academic return positive which also ultimately leads to positive financial return as well.
But that's sort of the color that's sort of the philosophy that underpins how we think about that.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Could you talk about student retention trends in undergrad? I know that we can only look at persistence which includes graduations and it looks like it was down a little bit in the spring term and I'm just wondering if there was anything happening there.
Overall our persistence continues to be pretty consistent with where we have been for the balance of fiscal 2011.
It's somewhat softer but nothing significant or anything unusual.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up is there any way to talk about the fixed versus variable nature of costs for the undergraduate and Keller segment? Sure.
With respect to the fixed versus variable our programs with online tend to be more variable.
We still have a step function in terms of how we're able to fill sections and our need for faculty which tend to be more variable on that side.
Whereas of course the on-site tends to be more fixed.
And we obviously see a bigger flow-through when we have more on-site enrollments because of that.
Any way to quantify that? We don't specifically break out our profitability between on-site and online delivery.
At the campus level Sara this is Rick you have your facilities and your full-time faculty would be fixed and then there's some other staff at the campus level that are also fixed.
So it's going to be predominantly majority fixed with some variable components associated with it.
Okay.
That's a lot.
And the next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC.
LLC</strong> This is a particularly strong quarter and it looks like you got a lot of operating leverage through cost of Educational Services over 100 basis points.
I was wondering if this is sustainable going forward? And also 2 just something that Daniel had spoken before about is it likely that long-term enrollment will trend back to 7% to 9% in the next year or two? And is that kind of your target? On the first part you want to talk about the...
In terms of the sustainability we continue to see -- we'd expect to see margin improvement as our total enrollments will grow just based on going into the previous question in terms of being able to continue to leverage our fixed cost base.
In terms of that rate of growth that would certainly moderate as our overall enrollments grow but we'd continue to expect to see some margin improvement.
One piece of historical color Bob that might be helpful is if you go back many of our fellow owners and partners have been with us since DeVry was first to go public back in 1991.
And remember that decade of the 90s where for 10 years in a row there was 20% or more earnings per share growth over that whole decade.
And if you go back the enrollment growth average has been -- that was just DeVry University at that time we weren't diversified as we are today but the average was in the 7% range.
So it's quite interesting to kind of look back and see that that kind of a number which is what you mentioned is in the order of probably a magnitude to think about for the long term.
LLC</strong> And do you think the target earnings per share growth of 20% is still applicable in the current environment on a long-term basis? I think clearly we've exceeded that over the past several years.
We don't predict the future.
We don't give up forward guidance.
And right now we're also as we all know facing some uncertainty about whether the final regulations will come out.
So I think it would be premature for us to try to speculate on that.
But we'll keep you posted.
LLC</strong> Thanks a lot.
And the next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
This is actually Tom Dillon.
A quick follow-up to Sara's question on retention how is the retention trends at DVU online look these days? I will be the same answer.
I mean it's been improving and it's fairly consistent with what we've seen in the past.
All right.
And then just 1 follow-up how is job placement for DVU grads has been lately? Well and we like to call it employment statistics.
And the only reason that I just point that out is when people say placement it makes it sound like -- that the university has been placing the student and sort seems to take the responsibility off the student.
And really it's a relationship it's a two-way street and the students is certainly responsible for that.
And we provide the services and empower them with the tools.
By the way not just for their of course career position after they graduate but we provide life-long career services.
So that's why we always -- belabored the point here and forgive me for doing that but that's why we call it employment statistics.
But the implement statistics that we hold ourselves accountable at DeVry University is the goal is that our graduates in the active job market is 9 out of 10 should be employed in their field of study within 6 months of graduation.
Of late in the tough job market we slipped a little bit which is about 88% and so when we say we hold ourselves accountable that means that we are putting more resources into that area to make sure we provide our students with as much support as possible.
And that's why we've hired several dozen additional career services advisors.
We've also announced this CareerBuilder partnership which we're very excited about.
So that's where we are and we are putting more resources in there to continue to support our students.
And the next question comes from the line of Arvind Bhatia with Sterne Agee.
Thank you very much.
I just had a question on pricing and what your philosophy is on that front particularly for DeVry University in the coming years.
Just overall how you're thinking there.
Yes.
The pricing for DeVry University historically it's been in the 3% to 6% range for undergrad and grad.
For this coming year our pricing is out already and it's going to be in the lower end of that range a little bit less than 3% on average for both undergrad and grad.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Jerry Harman with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I was interested in your comments with regard to 2012 and you belief that top- and bottom-line growth will be delivered.
And just wanted to address that given the fact that 70% of the business is BMT and the trends there seem to be for lack of better word deteriorating.
Help us with how you get to that level of confidence given the fact that that's just such an important piece of the business? And also as part of that can you address sort of the technology versus business disciplines within that segment? Relative strength or weakness? For 1 thing I think as we've diversified our portfolio the 70% number is a little large.
It's not quite as much of our revenue or earnings as it was in the past but it is a big piece there's no denying that.
And as we have been putting actions in place in the past we've been investing behind the school and we'll continue to do so.
But we will be able to garner additional efficiencies as we complete this fiscal year and go on to next fiscal year.
And that will help us show improvement in the bottom line year-over-year given what we know.
And again obviously there's the elephant out there which is whatever comes out of gainful employment that I don't think it's kind of a big impact in '12 in that assumption.
And the part of the benefit here is we do have a diversified portfolio.
As I mentioned we will see some softening enrollments as you mentioned in DeVry and at Carrington but that will be offset by growth in the other areas at Chamberlain at Ross and at DeVry Brasil.
So that also helps us in being able to say we know what we know that we think we can deliver growth in both the top and bottom line.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then Business versus Technology? With respect to business versus technology specifically within DeVry University undergraduate 2011 versus 2010 that has been pretty consistent and pretty constant.
But what is important to note is the growing healthcare tech programs within DeVry University undergraduate and that's a single pie via a double-digit number of the total student mix.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
And the next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Just following up on that last comment Rick given what you know today you feel like that there is an ability to grow profit next year.
How are you thinking about the near-term enrollment trend? And is there any data you can give us that gives us a sense how that might trend? It looks like DeVry University undergrad will have major comparison clearly next quarter but is there anything like inquiry flow and how that's changed or anything else that could give us some comfort that maybe it starts with trend better than this quarter this term you've reported? Well again we don't give guidance on enrollments and it's just based upon the programs and plans we have in place as we roll those up and take a realistic and usually conservative approach to that we feel that we're going to be able to manage through this choppier period for DeVry University following the 10 semesters we had double-digit growth.
The total enrollment obviously is going to continue to come down a bit but we still think that combination of the enrollment growth the impacts of the price increase we mentioned earlier and the efficiency measures will give us the ability to deliver some growth on the bottom line next year.
And I don't think we heard an update this call on the student information system really as it relates to DeVry University.
I think last quarter was a little behind schedule but maybe there were still some benefit you thought you'd get on efficiency in '12.
Is that still a reasonable timeline? Or any update you want to give on that? Sure.
So we've been calling that Project DELTA.
And that's right just overall the project is behind the original schedule and over the original budget which is not a shock for those who've implemented large business improvements and systems improvement.
But since that time is now trending on plan to our revised plan.
And so what's good there is that even though it's behind schedule and behind plan is that we're not going to release the modules until they're ready.
And that's just so important to us and to me personally because I've worked with other organizations where they sort of jam it in and then the organization is brought to its knees as a result.
And we're just committed to not doing that.
So even though it will cost a little bit more money we're willing to do what it takes to do it right and I just really appreciate the support of our organization and of our board in doing that the right way.
We are expecting to roll out subsequent modules and I'll continue to give you updates on that.
Should have an update I would expect probably next quarter on the next module.
And we do expect to have improvements in efficiency improvements in customer service and quality of service as a result.
So those are the kinds -- that's in that category of things that Rick mentioned earlier about performance improvements efficiency improvements that are part of our job as managers to continue to improve our results as we move along.
So yes that would definitely be in the category.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Trace Urdan with Signal Hill.
Rick I was wondering if you could maybe quantify the impact of year-round Pell going away whether to what extent you have students that are taking advantage of that and what you're anticipating will happen once it goes away? How that gap will be filled in other ways? Thanks Trace.
It's Daniel here.
I would -- I'm glad you asked that question because I know a lot of people probably have the same question.
And I really like to answer the question from 2 perspectives what's the impact on DeVry and then more importantly what's the impact on our students and on students generally.
In terms of the impact on DeVry and on our results it's not material.
And 1 way to look at that is year-round Pell has only been in effect for about a year and a half.
And the increase didn't materially affect our new enrollments then.
And so it stands to reason that the decrease won't materially affect our enrollments now.
Unfortunately the impact is going to be more on students.
And they'll have fewer smaller amount of grants and bigger loans which unfortunately is sort of counter to where I think we want to go generally as a society.
But in terms of impact on our enrollments or retention we don't see material impact of there.
In situations where GAAP occurs do you have -- I mean will you all be stepping in with the loan program to help those students out? We already have that and we've had that in place for some time.
We're comfortable with that.
So yes there is an institutional loan program that's there.
That's just typically the last layer in a student's financial aid package.
But most of any increased gap that would open up would be in terms of Stafford loans Trace.
The other thing is there's been a lot of misinformation I'm sure it's not with you but some misreporting at least that I've seen in the press that they've cut -- they didn't cut the maximum Pell Grant they moved away from the year-round Pell eligibility.
So for students who are going year round and a good example would be Chamberlain College of Nursing where we have a 4-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing that you can do in 3 years because of our trimester system.
Or DeVry University where you can get a 4-year bachelors in 3 years because of our trimester system so student under year-round Pell could then get a second Pell Grant because they enter a second academic year within 1 calendar year.
So we think that it's very much in line with policy that wants to see more students graduate more quickly to have year-round Pell.
And we're working with others to develop solutions around Pell that other ways of managing the program but to keep year-round Pell.
So we'd like to see that come back.
But again we've only had it for a year-and-a-half and we didn't see a big or a material spike or something like then and we don't expect to see a diminution in enrollment as result now.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Paul Condra with BMO Capital Markets.
Great.
Thank you.
I actually wanted to ask about the state authorization.
You have several locations in many states and the state authorization rules are still pretty uncertain and it's even more uncertain what the states are going to do.
So I just wondered how that impacts are expansion into new locations and if there are any areas that you might be more wary of than others? And how do you assure that you're not going to violate any of these authorization issues? When you mention state authorization I think you're referring to the new -- 1 of the 14 new regulations that the department put out is that what you're referring to? Yes I am.
Okay.
So that will not have any impact on our ability to open new locations.
That has to do with if a college wants to offer online program then they need to have authorization in every state where they have online students.
And actually because we already operate in so many states we're actually in somewhat advantageous position because we already have most of the authorizations that we need and we certainly will be fully compliant with that regulation going forward.
So we really don't see any impact on our ability to go enrollment online or on-site as a result of that regulation.
Just if I can follow up do you have this dialogue with the states that you're in? Has there been any new requirements or anything that they've made known to you? We're always in a regular dialogue with all the states in which we operate which is most of the states in the union -- well like all the states in the union.
And no there's no new requirements or nothing new sort of any material nature that we've heard about that would impede our ability to open new locations or anything like that.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Patrick Elgrably with Credit Suisse.
This is Kelly Flynn on Patrick's line thanks for taking my question.
Relates to the fiscal '12 comments about expecting revenue and earnings growth.
Can you talk about what type of new student declines or growth that implies or assumes for DeVry University? Or are you assuming things start to improve from here and into fiscal '12? No Kelly.
I mean we don't give guidance and what we said is the extent of the guidance we're going to give at this time.
Okay.
And then for -- I think Rick you did mention when someone asked you about fiscal '12 you mentioned something about gainful employment and some assumptions you might have there.
I know in the past you've said you're working on analysis but you're not prepared to guide.
But does that comment about growth in fiscal '12 have any assumptions embedded in it about gainful employment? It assumes that there's no major change in fiscal '12 what the gainful employment would have a big negative impact on next year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Blair Minarik [ph] with Robert W.
Baird.
If we could touch on starts 1 last time.
As of the end of January Daniel you had commented that you weren't really seeing any significant changes in DeVry undergraduate starts fairly sizable sequential declines for the spring.
Could you comment on the trends from January through now to April and I guess the main drivers there? Just to correct that I think the comments that you're referring to that I made I didn't see -- people are asking did we see major changes in our programs in response to new regulation and sort of turning your business model upside down those kinds of things.
So yes that's a completely different question.
Could you speak to the trends within the term at all? Just to be clear so your question is...
I guess how trends continue to deteriorate kind of consistently year-to-date? Yes I think I really don't have much to add to what Rick said.
Yes.
I mean I think the thing you've got to realize is we were overlapping the 24% growth in the prior year spring.
So given that type of growth that we had 24% in the prior spring the spring before that it was up 15.1% the spring before that it was up to 12.1%.
And so to get continual growth on growth on growth is really not realistic.
Decline to 15% are we totally happy with that? As I said in my comments not really pleased with that but not unexpected that it was a decline.
And again if you look at it over the long-term there's going to be some ups and downs.
It's not going to be all smooth growth here but it's going to moderate we think over the long term into the mid-single digit growth rate.
Great.
And then actually related to your comment there you had also mentioned last quarter similar not being pleased but that you'd be proactively managing that to avoid some of the softening.
Did you I guess find that your efforts were able to offset what otherwise could have been much worse given the environment? We're doing what we can.
There's a lot of factors at play.
And the results are what the results are.
We continue to make adjustments and modifications as needed to try and do everything we can to bring in quality students and help students succeed.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'll hand it over.
Okay I think we're ready for your closing comments Daniel.
Thank you Joan.
I'd like to thank everyone for all your questions.
And our next conference call is scheduled for August 11.
And there we'll have the year end and the summer enrollment results.
So thank you again for your continued support of DeVry.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 DeVry Results Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
You have the floor Ms.
Bates.
Thank you Jeff.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Gunst Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker Vice President and Controller.
I'll now review the Safe Harbor provisions of this results call.
This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Such forward-looking statements reflect among other things management's current expectations plans and strategies and anticipated financial results all of which are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Please see our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information about forward-looking statements and related risk factors.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's results call are available until August 25 2011.
To access the replays please refer to today's press release for more information.
I'll now turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thanks Joan.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
Overall we're pleased with our performance in fiscal 2011 academically operationally and financially speaking as well.
This performance was driven by our commitment to academic quality and strong execution of our diversification strategy.
While we delivered strong results for the year we're proud that we also continued to make long-term investments in the quality of our programs and services laying foundation for continued growth in the future.
We now have more than 119 000 students currently enrolled in our DeVry family of institutions.
While we recognize this figure was slightly down for the year we remain encouraged by the results we were able to achieve in one of the toughest economic environments in history.
Now it's clear that DeVry and higher education in general have faced some headwinds in the current environment caused by a number of factors and I'll touch on these and then address the steps we're taking to overcome these challenges.
And to start one thing I'd like to address is something I've been asked about quite often recently which is the impact of increasing admission standards on enrollment growth.
Lately we've heard several universities cite new admission standards as a reason for enrollment decline as they've turned away students that previously would've been admitted.
It hasn't been the case for DeVry because we don't have open-enrollment institutions and has had enrollment standards in place.
Some people have been surprised when I told them this because there's a perception that all private sector colleges are open-enrollment and that's not the case and it's not the case at DeVry.
While we continually evaluate and make adjustments to our admission standards these aren't major wholesale changes to our operating model.
So let me turn to the 3 factors that we do believe are having an impact on our enrollment.
First off after several years of exceptional enrollment growth we all expected an industry-wide reversion toward more of historic levels of enrollment growth.
Google keyword searches and the whole category of education have been trending down in the last few quarters and that's across all of higher education not just the private sector.
Like just the day -- just the other day somebody sent me an article about Eastern Illinois University's new student enrollment as being down about 9% and they're closing a portion of their student housing.
So this is affecting public sector state universities as well as those in the private sector.
As we've discussed on past results calls we've been anticipating this reversion to the trend.
And we believe over the long term enrollment growth will likewise revert back to the long-term trend which is in the mid- to high-single-digit range.
The second factor is the impact of the new regulations governing higher education that went into effect July 1.
Implementation of these new regulations has created an adjustment period that all schools have had to begin working through to some degree or another.
One of the main adjustments we've been addressing is reevaluating our marketing affiliates and how they stack up to the new regulations.
In some instances this may mean no longer working with certain vendors.
This doesn't mean these vendors are necessarily doing anything wrong but if they're unable to demonstrate adherence to our standard we simply won't work with them until they do.
And I hope they're listening.
And by the way DeVry University's President Dave Pauldine he's played a leadership role for the sector in setting standards for marketing and advertising vendors.
So kudos to Dave.
These relationships may take time to replace but given DeVry's conservative risk-averse nature we will be uncompromising where compliance is involved.
I can assure you that.
Another adjustment is compliance with the new compensation rules which apply to all colleges whether private sector public sector or independent.
Again I'll point out a misperception here.
Some people think we were paying commissions before -- people think we were paying commission before the rule changes and that the rule changes therefore had an impact.
But that's not the case.
We weren't paying commission until that wasn't an impact on the new regulations.
But we did need to adjust our performance management systems and our processes for employees whose compensation was covered by these Department of Education rules.
We're being careful to ensure we remain in compliance and to properly assess the performance of these employees.
And in addition we're also training all our employees on the new regulations.
We recently brought in 600 of our top managers across our institutions for 3 days of training on what the new regulations mean for our institutions.
And we've rolled out a training program on responsible communications practices to all employees.
These are examples of DeVry's commitment to compliance.
So while we're making these regulatory adjustments and don't foresee them being a long-term issue they have been a near-term distraction to our employees and likely have had a bit of a negative impact in our performance.
So finally the third factor the economy.
That's the one we believe has had the greatest influence in our student enrollment.
Basically and you don't need me to tell you this but this economy is just awful.
And as the sluggishness in the economy has dragged on it's had an increasing effect on student decisions to pursue a college degree as it sure has in every other economic decision.
It's hard to overstate the increasing level of discouraging economic trends.
Just recently it was released that in June consumer spending fell for the first time in 2 years.
We've seen [indiscernible] fell.
And what really brought it home for me is when I saw an article recently that even the dollar stores Family Dollar Dollar General they're experiencing sales declines.
They always do well in a recession but this one has dragged on so long and so deep that even the Dollar stores are down.
When you combine this declining consumer sentiment with all the uncertainty and the high unemployment rate it's clear that the average person in the U.S.
has become much more risk-averse and cautious when it comes to spending or committing to anything.
It's unrealistic for us to think that education would be immune from this.
And so clearly these 3 factors have negatively impacted our institutions.
We wanted to provide as much color as we could.
So that's the diagnosis.
But what are we doing about it? So let me give you an idea of the steps we're taking at 2 of our institutions that have been most negatively impacted by the current environment: DeVry University undergraduate and Carrington Colleges.
The DeVry University as a focal point for our improvement efforts includes first investing in the strong DeVry University brand which we view as one of our greatest assets.
We're increasing our emphasis on generating more inquiries through inorganic and paid search.
And to illustrate this approach let me cite what were doing to support the brand at Keller Graduate School of Management.
We launched a campaign that targeted TV spots and online media initiatives that underscored the value proposition of a Keller degree: of course the practitioner focus flexible scheduling and having the best of both the best of both on-site and online coursework.
We believe these efforts have been a driver of Keller's continued growth and out-performance relative to the graduate market.
So we'll be increasing our focus on this kind of an approach at the undergraduate level as well.
And the second step we're taking is improving our student outreach and recruiting processes enhancing our technology tool to provide faster service to prospective students.
In particular we're focusing on a more efficient approach to how we handle inquiries received via social media.
And we're increasing our investment in recruitment channels building relationships with corporations community colleges and government organizations.
And the third element of DeVry University's growth strategy that I want to highlight is adding new locations and new programs.
I'll provide some more examples a little later on the call.
Now let me turn to Carrington where we're also actively addressing our underperformance.
And I'd like to highlight 3 elements of our turnaround plan here.
First is enhancing our student's academic experience.
One way we've been doing this is through something we call our Symlink experience which we briefly mentioned I believe last quarter.
This state-of-the-art technology offers students the latest in advanced patient simulation teaching methods.
It's now fully operational and receiving stellar reviews I might add at our Pomona Mesa and Albuquerque campuses.
Secondly we're optimizing the marketing and recruiting process at Carrington.
During this quarter we successfully relocated our student qualification center in Phoenix.
We're currently training the new staff on processes to enhance student service.
We expect consistent improvement in our responsiveness to prospective students as this team gets oriented to the new processes and begins to hit its stride.
Our marketing team has also been hard at work making changes to improve the efficiencies in inquiry quality.
We're seeing early indications of an increase in traffic at our Carrington website.
We're seeing more overall inquiries and a shift in our inquiry mix that reduces our dependence on outside vendors.
And third at Carrington we're launching new programs and new locations.
We're developing programs beyond healthcare to include business and networking technology.
We recently opened a campus in Pomona California that provides an opportunity for incremental growth.
This is a co-location with DeVry University so the efficiency is higher than a stand-alone campus.
We're also in development in our first Carrington campus in Texas in the Dallas suburb of Mesquite Texas.
And in terms of new locations we're also -- here we would also include the virtual location if you will of online delivery.
Carrington currently only has a small online presence so we believe there's a lot of opportunity here.
So while we're not satisfied with enrollment results at DeVry University undergraduate and at Carrington we believe we have solid plans in place to address the issues.
It's also important to note that even though we had these 2 institutions underperform in this difficult environment our other institutions performed quite well and displayed strong growth.
So while there's currently softness within DeVry University undergraduate and at Carrington the growth at Chamberlain Ross Medical Ross Veterinary Keller and at DeVry Brasil all this growth offsets the weakness.
And this observation gets to the heart of our diversification strategy.
When one institution is down others are often up.
DeVry's diverse family of institution allows us to mitigate the impact of economic and curricular cycles.
It keeps us on a path of long-term growth.
So the DeVry formula is: Quality plus diversification equals growth.
Our focus is to keep investing in educational quality and to continue to position ourselves across a diverse array of educational segments especially those that are in high demand like technology and in healthcare.
And a great example of this of course is the acquisition of American University of the Caribbean that we announced last week.
AUC's high-quality curriculum faculty and facilities make this a perfect addition to DeVry's growing healthcare group.
We believe there's a compelling strategic rationale for this transaction.
AUC has excellent academic quality and is 1 of only 3 Caribbean medical schools whose students are entitled for an eligible -- and of course Ross being another.
AUC offers us the opportunity to have a firm #1 position in international medical education and to further help meet the growing demand for well-trained physicians in the U.S.
Secondly the execution risk of this acquisition is relatively low.
We know medical education.
DeVry and AUC have highly compatible cultures and those cultures are focused on quality program integrity and compliance and excellent student service.
Thirdly we expect excellent financial returns well in excess of our cost of capital.
The transaction will be highly accretive: accretive academically accretive to our society as we help address the physician shortage and accretive financially.
So as we move forward we have a thorough integration plan in place.
In summary our game plan includes the following priorities.
Priority #1 2 and 3: quality.
While AUC's academic delivery is already of high quality we'll continue to invest here including upgrading the labs investing in patient simulation investing in the clinical network curriculum and faculty development.
Next priority: build growth capacity.
We've already developed a master plan working with the prior owner and this is about a $20 million investment.
And finally: work on synergies.
AUC will continue to be a separate institution and at the same time we see many opportunities to share best practices things like clinical training faculty development purchasing and technological improvement all like those that we've developed at DeVry University and at Ross University School of Medicine over the years.
Earlier this week Bill Houston who heads our healthcare group and I had a chance to visit with the employees and the students of AUC.
We had a chance to welcome them to the DeVry family.
I got to say the students are really impressive the staff is dedicated to student service the faculty is outstanding.
And we have a great relationship with the government there.
In fact we were honored to have the St.
Maarten prime minister and many other public officials join us for a public celebration of the transaction.
And we look forward to continuing this strong partnership AUC has enjoyed there over the years.
So before I turn it over to Rick and Pat I'd like to highlight a few developments in the public policy arena.
First and foremost the period of regulatory uncertainty is behind us and we have a set of rules in place that we can work from.
We firmly believe in strong metrics that can improve institutional quality accountability and transparency.
And while we don't see the current gainful employment rule as being the best way to measure institutional quality or even the best way to measure whether graduates are gainfully employed we think we can work with it and of course we will be compliant with all rules and regulations.
We've begun work on analyzing our programs under these new metrics and our initial analysis has yet to find any programs that failed to meet the new parameters.
However we do believe there's room for improvement in these regulations and we want to be a part of the dialogue to get it right.
And so it's great that we now have certainty.
And while the process of the 2 last years wasn't always pleasant there were a number of positive outcomes.
For one thing a lot of policymakers are much better educated now.
There's strong bipartisan understanding that given our huge need for education and a shortage of resources in the public sector to meet this need the private sector will continue to play an important role.
That's huge.
There's also an increasing recognition that the laws and regulations ensuring quality must protect all students whether they attend private sector public sector or independent colleges.
Again that's huge something we've been advocating for years.
So we see the opportunity for a new dialogue one that says "Clean sheet of paper.
How should we regulate how should we oversee higher education?" We think there's the opportunity for a complete policy reform and as this dialogue unfolds on Capitol Hill we look forward to being a part of improving the overall policy framework.
Along these lines DeVry recently had an opportunity to participate in a senate health education labor and pensions committee roundtable to discuss policy solutions and ways to improve private sector education.
Our presence at this meeting was an important step.
We continue to build an ongoing and constructive dialogue even with those who've been critical of the sector.
We thank Senator Harkin for hosting this discussion and for enabling DeVry to have a seat at the table as a thought leader in the sector and across all of higher education.
In summary our concept is to base the new policy framework on 2 pillars: metrics of accountability and standards of best practice.
And to apply the framework to all colleges and universities.
If you'd like to read our proposed 2-pillar solution to college accountability we posted my written testimony from the roundtable on the DeVry website.
So thank you for your indulgence for that well unusually long overview.
But with that I'd like to turn the call over to Rick and Pat for the financial and enrollment results.
Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
Another fiscal year has come to close and overall we delivered solid results within a challenging external environment.
Full year revenue was $2 182 000 000 up 14% versus prior year.
Net income from fiscal 2011 was about $330 million up 18% versus last year.
And earnings per share were $4.68 up 21%.
For the year we provided over $160 million in taxes and invested about $136 million of capital in our various educational institutions.
Fourth quarter results reflect a slowdown of top line growth driven by lower enrollments but continued operating leverage and focus on reinvesting in academic quality and long-term growth initiatives.
Fourth quarter revenue of about $547 million was up 8% versus prior year.
Total enrollment across our degree-granting educational institutions was down about 1% for the most recent period to about 119 000 students.
Net income of $75 million in the quarter increased 5% versus prior year and earnings per share of $1.08 up about 9%.
Our overall effective tax rate was 30.8% for the quarter and 33.1% for the year as compared to 32.1% for the full fiscal 2010.
The tax rate was lower in the fourth quarter due to the lower mix of domestic source income and the true-up of safe accruals and reserves.
Cost of educational service expense increased by 12% for the year and student service and administrative expense increased by 12.5% for the year.
We continue to invest resources to improve academic quality and enhance student services consistent with our philosophy of "quality plus diversification equals growth." In the quarter cost of educational services was up 9% and student service and administrative expense up 6% versus prior year.
With that overview let me now shift to our operating segment results which are further detailed in our release and 8-K filing today.
You will note we have realigned our segments to better conform to our organizational structure and strategic focus.
Our 2 largest segments Business Technology and Management; and Medical and Healthcare remain unchanged as our 2 U.S.
postsecondary educational segments.
We combined the Professional Education and Other Educational Services segments into the new International K-12 and Professional Educational segment.
This segment is led by Steve Riehs and represents our educational institutions outside of U.S.
postsecondary education.
So starting with Business Technology and Management segments revenue was up about 8% versus prior year in the quarter and about 16% year-to-date.
The revenue growth continued to come down this quarter due to softening new student enrollments as undergraduate new student enrollments were down 26% versus prior year and total student enrollment down 6%.
As Daniel mentioned earlier there are several factors we are working through to address these slower growth trends and we'll continue to update you along the way as we progress there.
Enrollment at the graduate level grew about 8% in May and 2% in the July session.
Segment earnings were up 7% in the quarter and about 24% for the year.
We've been focusing on reducing costs where appropriate without compromising academics new program development and new location expansions the benefit of which we'll see in fiscal 2012 and beyond.
We'll also continue to pursue technological improvements within the organization.
You've heard us talk about Project DELTA in the past and how it's been behind schedule and over budget but we've been committed to rolling out these modules in the right way and not harming our service to students in the process.
Recently we launched our new student accounts module.
This new module provides students with convenient ways to manage their personal accounts online 24/7.
Where there used to be a lag of several days students now get instant updates through their accounts online as tuition and student aid are posted.
And true to our word we delayed it we spent more than we originally had planned and in doing so ensured we did the right thing.
The implementation went very smoothly.
In fact we have contracted with an outside firm to bring on a team of people to staff the phones in case any problems ensuing a deluge of helpdesk calls occurred.
Thankfully they ended up like the Maytag Repairman and we were able to release them ahead of schedule.
In the coming year we expect to launch several new modules that will continue to simplify processes and help our students provide great student service while improving efficiency.
We're doing so on the heels of this success and the team is feeling very good about Project DELTA.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up 4% in the quarter and about 10% for the fiscal year driven primarily by the strong growth within Chamberlain College of Nursing.
Chamberlain's new student enrollment was up about 16% in the summer term with total enrollment up 40%.
This growth was driven by the impact of enrollment at our 3 new locations in fiscal 2011: Chicago and  Arlington Virginia which opened in July 2010; and Houston which started teaching in March 2011.
Chamberlain also began teaching in Miramar Florida just outside of Fort Lauderdale last month.
Chamberlain's growth was driven by continued increased enrollment at our existing locations and online due to the strong demand for nursing professionals.
Within Ross University new student enrollment showed growth as expected for the May class up 38% versus prior year due to overlap in the lower student enrollment levels last year at the medical school campus in Dominica.
Total enrollment was up about 6%.
As we look forward new student enrollment growth rates are likely to bounce around a bit mainly via arithmetic of overlapping the uneven classes of last year the arithmetic of overlapping the uneven classes of last year.
You would I would know that one.
But you should expect long-term enrollment trends to be in the mid-single-digit range.
Meanwhile enrollment at Carrington continued to suffer the effects of the prolonged poor economic environment and hesitancy of prospective students to pursue further education with new student enrollment down about 34% and total enrollment down around 26%.
Earnings for the Medical and Health Care segment in the quarter were down 15% versus prior year and down 4% for the year with strong performance at Chamberlain offset by softer results at Carrington.
Cost containment initiatives have helped lessen the impact of the lower enrollments.
Finally for our new segment revenue within International K-12 and Professional Education increased about 21% in the quarter and 13% for the year.
Revenue growth for the quarter and year came from each of the institutions.
DeVry Brasil is benefiting from the double-digit new and total enrollment growth in the most recent term.
Advanced Academics we've garnered with stronger growth on the heels of new school district enrollments.
And Becker saw improving trends within accounting and finance.
Segment earnings were up 82% in the quarter and 64% for the year versus the softer performance in the year-ago periods.
So fiscal 2011 was the year where we met our goals of delivering double-digit revenue growth and roughly 20% earnings growth despite the challenging external environment.
We feel very good about that.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2012 despite the recent enrollment declines at DeVry University undergrad and Carrington we expect fiscal 2012 total revenue to be up versus 2011 organically with the acquisitions of AUC and ATC adding to that growth.
Earnings growth however also possible will be more challenging.
First half earnings will be below prior year given the impact of the enrollment deceleration and tougher year-over-year overlaps.
We expect second half earnings to be back up versus prior year with the full year likely to be plus or minus the 2011 level.
We need to achieve improved enrollment trends at DeVry University undergraduate and Carrington to be able to show earnings growth for the year.
Accretion from the AUC acquisition will likely add about a $0.05 to EPS for the year.
So I'll now turn the call over to Pat to review our cash flow and balance sheet results.
Pat? Thanks Rick.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our cash flow from operations for the fiscal year was $408 million versus $391 million last year.
The strong cash generation drove our cash and marketable security balance to $450 million at the end of the year compared to $323 million last year.
We also remained debt-free.
During May we replaced our $175 million revolving credit agreement which was set to expire in January 2012 with the new $400 million 5-year facility.
And we have the option to expand that facility to $550 million.
This facility will provide us with the flexibility to finance acquisitions at market-competitive interest rates.
Our net accounts receivable balance was about $115 million versus $119 million last year.
This lower accounts receivable balance was the result of our continued focus on student service and collections management as well as our students ability to pay back their accounts based on their positive student outcomes.
Our bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with bad debt expense for the fiscal year actually down to 2.1% of revenue as compared to 2.6% last year.
Again an indicator of our students paying back their accounts and the strong value proposition of our programs.
Capital spending for the year was $136 million versus $131 million spent last year.
We came in a bit lower than expected as some of the project spending will carry over in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
The spending was driven by facility improvements to better serve students across all of our schools and for new locations at DeVry University and expansion within Ross University and Chamberlain College of Nursing so that we can educate more doctors and nurses in this great time of need.
For fiscal year 2012 we anticipate spending to be in the $170 million to $180 million range which includes investment for our newly acquired AUC Medical School.
Finally during the quarter we repurchased 518 000 shares of our common stock for about $28 million or on average $54.39 per share.
We completed our fifth share repurchase program in the quarter and began executing on our sixth program which is a $100 million program.
Also since the inception of our share repurchase program back in November 2006 we have repurchased approximately 5.1 million shares for just about $243 million or at an average price of about $47.50 per share.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel for some more color on our operating results.
Thank you Pat.
I'll start here with our Business Technology and Management segment which of course consists of DeVry University and its Keller Graduate School of Management.
I'd like to emphasize that despite softening enrollments we're continuing to make significant investments in expanding our programs and locations for DeVry University.
I talked quite a bit about this segment earlier so let me just add a little color to this point.
We plan in introducing a bachelor's degree in healthcare administration in November this year.
We just opened new locations in Oxnard California and Lynnwood Washington in July as we start this new fiscal year.
We're targeting further expansion with a new location in Cherry Hill New Jersey in November.
We're on schedule for our second location in San Diego in the second half of fiscal 2012.
We're also investing in the Keller Graduate School of Management developing a new website dedicated solely to Keller and that's going to feature more user-friendly navigation tools and dynamic content that we anticipate will drive increased traffic and inquiries.
And this project's on track to launch the new website in the spring of 2012.
Moving to the Medical and Healthcare segment.
At Ross University School of Medicine we continue to experience significant demand as the need for physicians continues to grow.
Capacity constraints remain an issue but we're making progress and plan to build out further capacity while continuing to enhance academic quality and outcomes.
At Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine demand has never been greater and we reached an all-time high in total enrollment in the most recent period.
Of course the highlight of fiscal 2011 was earning accreditation from the American Veterinary Medical Association or the AVMA.
Ross is the only AVMA-accredited private sector vet school.
I stumbled down let me say again: Ross is the only AVMA-accredited private sector vet school.
During the quarter we also opened a tri-location.
So it's a 3-way co-location in Miramar Florida.
It's a unique location of housing clinical facilities for Ross University School of Medicine campuses for DeVry University and Chamberlain College of Nursing.
And at Chamberlain we're continuing to see strong demand across all our programs and responsible [ph] working hard on new Chamberlain campuses in Indianapolis and in Atlanta.
We expect them to be open in the second half of fiscal 2012.
During the quarter we also made investments into Chamberlain's academic quality.
One example is the hiring of a new Vice President of Academic Affairs Dr.
Richard Cowling.
Dr.
Cowling brings an impressive depth of experience in nursing education and research.
I'm sure he's going to be a huge asset to Chamberlain going forward.
I'd like to take a moment to highlight how we're delivering on our commitment of doing well by doing good.
Recently a group of Chamberlain and Ross Medical students spent several weeks in Nairobi Kenya as part of an interprofessional global healthcare initiative.
The group provided healthcare and education to impoverished local communities and by the end of the trip they treated over 2 000 patients.
Programs like this provide invaluable real-world experience to our students and much needed medical attention to the local population.
So that truly is doing well by doing good.
And lastly in our Medical and Healthcare segment while we remain focused at our Carrington Colleges in implementing the initiatives that I mentioned earlier we're also investing in academic and service quality through new hires like a new Dean of Curriculum at Carrington College California new Dean of Career Services at Carrington College and as of July 1 we officially congratulate Rob Paul on his promotion as Carrington's President.
We've promoted Rob from DeVry University.
It's great to have a deep bench.
Finally onto our new International K-12 and Professional Education segment.
We [indiscernible] saw Becker Professional Education produce positive full year results.
The way I think of it is the same way that we began ramping up our healthcare group several years ago.
We're expanding in professional education by finding new vertical and geographic markets that build on our core strengths.
Our recent acquisition of ATC International is an example of this strategy.
As we're broadening our reach to include the population of more than 400 000 candidates for the ACCA exam.
That's the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants the accreditation typically found in the commonwealth countries former British Commonwealth.
So where there's 100 000 CPA exam candidates every year roughly of 400 000 ACCA exam candidates.
We view international exam review as a growth opportunity and we are excited for long-term possibilities.
We move to Advanced Academics just briefly to say that we're beginning to see some increased traction despite constrained state budgets.
Last quarter was a profitable period as we experienced growing success in Arizona Texas and New York.
We're also in the process of gearing up for expansion into Florida.
And at DeVry Brasil we are continuing to benefit from sizable organic enrollment growth largely in our high-demand engineering and healthcare programs.
Growth at DeVry Brasil demonstrates the power of incorporating best practices and investing in infrastructure throughout and across our system of colleges and universities.
For example we just recently arranged a joint project with DeVry Brasil students and students from our DeVry University's Addison Illinois campus.
The project focused on students researching the differences and similarities between the 2 countries in terms of fossil fuel production and conservation.
The result was very impressive as students freely collaborated to create a wonderful international learning experience.
Plans are currently underway to replicate this experience in the fall and it could lead to a dedicated exchange program in the future.
So we've been very pleased with the results at DeVry Brasil and we remain focused on driving future growth there.
We're continuing to build out our Ruy Barbosa campus and our first organic expansion to a new city Sao Luiz.
That one remains on track to open next year.
So overall I believe we have the right equation in place to continue executing on our plan toward successful student outcomes and long-term growth.
The simplest way I can describe that equation is "quality plus diversification equals growth" for DeVry and that means success for our students.
I'm confident that equation will continue to see us through this challenging environment as we focus on our students first in everything we do.
Our priorities in fiscal year '12 are aligned with our enterprise strategy which as you know we summarize as "Achieve grow build." Achieve our academic quality goals including student exam result persistence and supporting student services.
Grow means grow and diversify our educational offerings improve results at DeVry University expand our healthcare offerings while continuing to improve student outcome and expand beyond our core U.S.
postsecondary offerings in professional K-12 and international areas.
And third build; build the infrastructure to support this growth over the long term accelerate our online services that support all our institutions further implement Project DELTA enhance our reputation as the employer of choice in education and build our bench strength in talent management and succession planning and leverage DeVry's reputation to work with government in developing a long-term policy framework for higher education.
Before I turn the call back to Joan I want to recognize and thank all of our colleagues at DeVry for their hard work in fiscal year '11.
Their commitment to our students is the foundation of our success.
Okay great.
Before we open the call for your questions I'd like to point out that we've changed the date of our fall enrollment release because the original date conflicts with an internal meeting that we're having.
The new date of the release is Monday December 12.
So Jeff if you would give our participants the instructions we'd like to begin.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Quick arithmetic question for Rick.
Operating margins looks like they were down slightly this quarter at the university level on the Business and Technology and Management.
Actually they're the lowest level in years.
I was wondering how much of that deleverage was really a function of enrollment? Or was that most impacted by the procedural changes than anything else that might have driven that margin decline? The margin was actually up a little bit because we had revenue growth of about 8% in the quarter and earnings growth of about 7%.
So it was down slightly I guess yes.
It's down slightly.
But again for the year we still had really good operating leverage and expect it to be that way.
I mean when you have decelerating enrollments as we did in the quarter it's not surprising that we had a slight dip in margin.
Okay fair enough.
Yes I'll just jump in to say I think we saw some opportunities to make some investments in the quarter as well that -- there's always timing.
It could happen in quarter could happen next quarter.
Right.
But over the long term that should be a margin interlude expanding kind of business under-accelerating I guess enrollment trends.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
We appreciate the guidance for fiscal '12 and you went into a lot of detail about some of the initiatives to drive enrollment.
But can you give us a sense of what's embedded in that guidance as far as any cost cutting and where there could be some levers going forward in terms of cost cutting? Suzi thanks for that.
I don't think it's -- cost cutting is never going to be our driver.
We're a growth organization growth-oriented set of colleges and universities and so that's always going to be the dominant.
We're always at the same time looking for opportunities to be more efficient and typically that ends up looking like maybe a slower growth in a rate of costs as it grows slower than revenue.
So where you could see that is in some of the functional areas.
As Project DELTA continues to roll out and fully mature that can give us a better productivity.
So you might not see it as cost cutting but restraining the growth of expenditure and not needing to hire many new people.
But we have also been careful stewards of capital and of resources and where there's been opportunities we're very mindful and don't hesitate to take those kinds of action.
So we're very mindful of those and I think that's what you'll see going forward.
Yes and we look at it institution by institution and location by location for that matter.
So across DeVry University as an example we have about 100 locations.
Some are growing some are about flat and others might be declining.
So we have opportunities in different areas to invest and other opportunities maybe to right-size the organization.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
This is George Tong for Peter Appert.
You spoke at length about long-term investments you're making.
Will those investments weigh on margins going forward assuming we don't see any operating leverage in 2012? Or should we see some improvements in margin in the context of less investment spending in fiscal '12 versus '11? Just in general the investments that we're making we see as highly accretive investments.
We'll pay dividends to get -- we invest in student services academic qualities.
We invest in building our reputation and our brand.
That leads to growth and they have positive return.
So you might see in the near term sometimes because of timing one quarter another quarter this year that year it can depress margin.
And we've done that historically over the years many times.
I mean Chamberlain is a great example of that.
When we first acquired Chamberlain College of Nursing we purposely and told everybody that margins would go down because we'd be investing in the academic technology.
We redid the dorms.
I remember taking asbestos of the dorms many projects like that.
In the near term there was the depression.
In fact that's been planted by investments in new campuses.
Chamberlain's still in very much a growth mode and as you roll out new -- several new campuses -- on the base of 9 or 10 we have now you roll out 3 new campuses and you're going to see a depression in the near term but that's a project that's a great return on educational investment great return on capital.
So those are the -- that's the way we look at it.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is when do you expect that investment spend to end? Never.
Never yes...
Hopefully never.
And when it starts to end then that's not a very good sign.
And we're not a growth organization anymore.
Okay.
And you talked a bit about launching campaign on TV and media to emphasize degree benefits.
Do you see rising media costs as being prohibitive to your return on those efforts? Thanks.
Not prohibitive.
We are seeing some increases but it's not dramatic and not unexpected.
So I'd put it in that sort of order of magnitude for you.
Thanks Peter (sic) [George].
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
My question is about the Keller school the graduate business school which seems to be faring a lot better than the undergraduate business school at DVU.
Could you give us some sense on what's different about Keller? From the coursetaker account it definitely seems like it continues to grow nicely.
If you were looking at new enrollments is that also the direction for Keller? Yes certainly it's a more challenging -- and thank you Andrew for that it's a more challenging environment for all the reasons that I've tried to elaborate on to give you as much color as we could.
At the graduate level we do seem to be we're pretty proud and grateful for the recent performance which relative to the best data that we can get on the market seems to be an outperformance.
Maybe we're taking a little share there.
And one of the things that I would point to is we've known our market researcher has shown that Keller has very high consideration but not as high awareness as we'd like.
In other words once you know about Keller you really like it.
But not enough people know about it so we just weren't getting to the plate enough times I guess but our batting average was pretty good when we did.
So we instituted a marketing approach to try to build the awareness and the brand of Keller.
And you have seen some of the television ads.
I mean it's not just television.
Really it's plenty of other media and so forth.
We've had really good response to that.
So I think that might be one example of a driver there.
Also Daniel the other part was about do you feel like new enrollments at Keller are in the same direction as total enrollments? It's softening a little bit and that's why you've seen the total growth which is what we show total course-taker growth you've seen that come down.
So that has been a function of both new and graduations.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
What -- I guess a 2-part question.
What gives you confidence in the ability to say you expect revenue to be up year-over-year organically in fiscal '12 just given the trend in enrollment here particularly at DeVry University which we know is the largest business by a wide margin? I guess I'm having I'm struggling to figure out how you can say that confidently.
Maybe the second part of the question is what from an enrollment perspective is baked into that comment? I'll start out here and maybe Daniel will add on.
But if you look at DeVry University we have had now 3 consecutive periods of new student declines after having I think 10 consecutive periods of pretty sizable increases.
But if you look at it over the long term over the past 2 3 4 years the compound growth is still very strong in like the 10% 11% 12% range.
And so we view what's happened here near-term as not being a long-term trend but due to a lot of the matters that Daniel talked about earlier.
And as we start to have now easier overlaps easy comparisons to prior year on both new and total students coming to fall and spring next year we expect to see that improve.
And therefore that will drive improvements in the growth rates on both the top and bottom line.
But don't you need -- doesn't the 3 straight terms of pretty significant year-over-year decline and starts have to flow-through and doesn't that take a while? I mean this term you just gave us was August enrollment for DeVry University right? So last quarter which drove last last term excuse me enrollment which drove the 7% or 8% revenue increase at DeVry University was actually still a positive number for total undergrad enrollment.
It was up 6%.
Now you've got it down 6%.
I guess I still struggle with how you could get positive -- I'm trying to give you a hard time.
I'm just trying to understand if I'm thinking about the math wrong.
Yes well the math is you're looking at one piece of it and DeVry University is going to -- for the first half of the year you're going to have some challenges so we hope to see some improvements in trends as we go into the back half of the year.
But again DeVry Inc.
is not just DeVry University.
That's part of the "quality plus diversification equals growth." When we look across our portfolio we do have other pieces of our portfolio of our institutions that are growing and will help offset some of that flatness or slight decline at DeVry University so that overall organically we still see a positive on the revenue line.
And then when you add in the acquisition that just adds to that.
Okay.
And if I could sneak in one other is there anything you could tell us about AUC like what the margins were? Does that have an abnormally low tax rate like Ross did when you bought it? Any sense what the amortization might be? And I'll stop there.
Sure.
Yes the -- from the tax perspective quite similar to what you'd be familiar with and that -- coming back gives you some color there.
Margins I don't think we're disclosing.
In terms of -- Pat are you going to say on amortization? I think amortization if you go back kind of similar from a purchase price perspective when we acquired Ross University there'd be a large amount of amortization attributable to the existing student enrollments when we expect that to be $8 million $8.5 million for the first couple of years and then trailing off after that about a 5-year life on that.
So that will be the biggest slunk of amortization.
But even incorporating the amortization and our integration costs we still expect to see this to be about $0.05 accretive for FY 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Just going back to the guidance.
I just I think last quarter you said you're going to grow revs and EPS.
I don't want to belay the point.
This time I think you said plus or minus.
Is that a slight change? And if so is that really because of the DeVry new enrollment we just saw? And maybe Daniel could you maybe just disaggregate maybe what's market-driven as in the tough comps and the economy versus adjustments to any adjustments you're making to the admission criteria? I know they're minor.
Or just the new regulatory environment? Any way to kind of disaggregate for at least DeVry itself the impact of both of those? Right.
Rick why don't you go ahead and address the first part and I'll address the second part.
Yes I guess honestly you're right.
It is a slight change in terms of debt perspective on earnings.
As we said in the beginning of the call our enrollments at DeVry University undergrad and Carrington were a bit softer than we anticipated and that's going to flow through as Gary said earlier throughout the year.
But so we were previously had a little more confidence in terms of earnings growth.
Now it's as I said likely plus or minus where we're going to be this year.
And then you asked to disaggregate the various factors and you asked how much of it was due to new having new admission standards.
And for us I would say 0 because we had admission standards.
Again that's something that -- I mentioned that to people sometimes they're surprised and they don't realize that there's a misperception that all private sector colleges and universities are open-enrollment.
And by the way there's absolutely not wrong -- in many things it's a very great thing to be open-enrollment provide open access.
Many public sector colleges and universities community colleges are open-enrollment that's great.
We've just chosen to have admission standards.
And so while we've always are adjusting those and looking at those it's an adjustment.
It's not a wholesale change or turning ourselves upside down or our operating model.
So for us that really was not an explanatory factor in the results.
In terms of the economy I would parse that out to say that's the biggest factor.
I mean that is -- you got to put yourselves in the shoes of the perspective students and the prospective students that our institutions are serving.
It's really tough out there.
I mean I remember '81 '82.
I'm from Detroit it's 25% unemployment in Flint.
I thought that was bad that's what I grew up with.
This is worse.
I mean maybe not quite that level in Flint although it is reasonably in some areas like my hometown Detroit.
But it is really bad.
And I think the psychology -- it's really the psychology that's out there.
I mean I was just listening the other night to the pundits on cable and everything.
They were talking about how people aren't just not buying a house even.
That's probably a very smart rational thing to do to buy a house right now while prices are down and rates are all-time low.
But they're not doing it just because of psychology that "I just don't want to commit.
I'm not confident in what the future is going to hold." So people are just frozen or deferring delaying decisions to go to school.
And we're seeing that across that impact across the board.
So like that's by far the biggest factor as far as we can tell.
So just to be -- so when it comes to sort of the new regulatory stuff and any adjustments you're making that's not really having an impact in everything -- 80% or 90% of what we're seeing is tough comps and/or economy? Glad you put a number on it but yes I would say that adjustments to the new regulations are a factor.
And again I want to be clear some people and I see this misreported so many times in the general media that I want to -- even though I know everyone on this call I'm sure knows but it's been misreported "Oh they were paying commission and now they're not allowed to pay commission." And so that's just completely misinformation and misreporting.
First of all it was not lawful to pay commissions before July 1 and we did not pay commissions before July 1.
We certainly don't now either but we certainly didn't before July 1.
So that's not a change.
But what I'm saying is a factor is just adjusting to the new regulations in terms of the advertising world and I mentioned holding some of our marketing vendors to very high standards and having to demonstrate their adherence to the standards.
So even if they didn't do anything wrong but they just couldn't show us or demonstrate compliance with our standards we took the high ground and cut them off.
So that means some inquiries that might have been perfectly valid inquiries from a prospective student would not have flown -- flowed through to us.
So that's an adjustment to the regulations that -- it's an example and some color for you that could have had a bit of an impact.
By the way another example of that was before you could reflect graduation in compensation you could hold people accountable for student academic outcomes like graduation which makes sense.
Like you see in K-12 holding teachers and principals accountable including even holding the competition accountable to those kind of outcomes.
In the new rules you can't do that in higher education.
We disagree with that.
We'll continue to point that out to people who -- the more we point it out people seem to think "Wait a minute that doesn't make sense." But in the meantime we will absolutely be compliant with that.
We'll work within the rules while continuing to have a seat at the table to get them right in the long term.
Our next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just more on the thoughts on 2012.
If the starts are down largely due to the economy then is the guidance assuming under the -- a much lower unemployment rate in the second half of 2012? I guess I'm wondering what would drive starts back up aside from much easier comparisons.
Well that's certainly one of the drivers.
And we're taking a number of actions.
We see the market situation the external market.
We understand that we embrace that reality but we don't just accept that.
I mean it's our job as managers to go ahead and compete with our competition in the public sector in the private sector independent colleges and universities and show prospective students and their families our value proposition whether it's the Chamberlain College of Nursing or at Ross University School of Medicine or it's at DeVry University or at Carrington College.
I mean we're out there fighting them on the beaches.
And so that's what we intend to do and we intend to turn that situation around.
Okay great.
And then can you give us an update on the CFO search? Yes.
That continues and we are seeing some excellent excellent candidates.
And we'll keep you posted as it goes forward.
There's a lot of interest in this pretty hot job.
A lot of people would love to compete for it and are.
And so we're really pleased with how it's going.
It's a very inclusive diverse search.
And I'm pleased with how it's going and we'll keep you posted as we get more information.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Silber with BMO Capital.
I just wanted to focus a little bit more on the DeVry undergraduate enrollment trends.
I know you guys don't give specific guidance but considering that the comps are getting a little bit easier as the year rolls on do you think that decline in the summer is the worst we're going to see for that specific unit for the rest of the year? This is Rick.
I would anticipate that would be the bottom and that's why I'm saying based upon our perspective on revenue and earnings with the numbers that we talked about we need to see some improvement in those trends.
And thankfully the overlap the comparisons still get easier and the absolute numbers would come more off this base.
All right.
And just a quick follow-up numbers question on the tax rate for this year.
Does it make sense that the tax rate will go down once you add AUC and considering the trends at DeVry undergrad? And if so if you can give us an order of magnitude? That'll be great.
There's a lot of moving pieces in that tax rate.
I think with the addition of AUC that will have a slight downward impact on the rate.
But offsetting that we have some increases in other so it's a mix of domestic and international.
I would expect the rate to be up a little bit based upon our current thinking but not dramatically.
Our next question comes from the line of Amy Junker with Robert W.
Baird.
Since there are 2 pieces to the equation to enrollment can you maybe talk a little bit about retention and persistence that you're seeing in DeVry? And I'd be curious to hear your comments on underlying retention trends if you were to strip out the graduation rates and the fact that we're seeing lower starts and wondering if it's fair to assume continued persistence pressure given those lower starts in higher graduation rates.
I'm just wondering how those underlying retention rates look.
Yes I think there is some cause for that.
We've in the context of over the past several periods we've driven higher rates of persistence by investing in the academic quality initiatives the student services the surrounding student services like our Student Central concept.
So the retention rates are at a very high level and of late I think starting to ease off in a similar sort of fashion here not similar in magnitude that we talked about the arithmetic around enrollment.
So there's a little bit of that going on.
And I don't know if you'd like to comment on graduation? Yes.
I mean we do given the enrollments we had 3 4 years ago we are seeing graduates increase.
Graduates were up about 15% for the most recent term.
So that when you look at the year and puts it a calculation of retention that's a factor as well.
And so just to clarify though if you were to adjust for that you're still seeing retention down a bit? Down a bit yes.
Up a high levels.
And our next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> This is Steven Bachman for Bob.
So to recent developments in the economy that you've mentioned and also this past enrollment performance does it change your thoughts regarding the expectation of a long-term growth rate of 20%? Or does that target kind of stay in place and this is more of a short-term bump in the road? Yes this is Rick.
I mean if you look at that perspective of what we said before mid-single digit enrollment growth double-digit revenue growth and roughly 20% earnings growth and take first a look backwards on that scorecard we have well-outperformed that.
If you look at over a 3- 4- 5-year perspective that growth rate has been 30% 40% 50% compounded over those time periods.
So I guess we're well ahead of the score looking back.
We're going through a change period here without a doubt.
And as we mentioned next year is going to be a period where we'll going to be way under those numbers.
But as things in the economy improve and as education continues to be a high priority for our country and the world we think that those growth rates of mid-single digit enrollment growth will come back.
It was the case in the '90s.
It was the case in this early decade of this century and we think will be the case going forward.
And with that and with some pricing you get to double-digit revenue.
And we're not stating a long-term earnings growth number in total.
A lot of this settles out but we would be able to get back to stronger earnings growth longer-term.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And just an additional question have you seen any change in the general competitive environment in this marketplace either from other poor profits or also from the public sector? Given the lower number student that are out there ready to make a decision as you mentioned have you noticed anything there? Thanks for that.
I've been asked that question for the 9 years almost that I've been here.
And the answer's always yes.
We're always seeing more competition globally.
This also applies in Brazil for example applies throughout our different degree programs.
So yes we do see increased competition.
We feel very strongly that we have a very strong value proposition in order to compete and to be competitive with those other competitors.
And yes those competitors are in the private sector.
So there in the public sector are state schools and are among the independents.
So that's how we view the competition.
Our next question comes from the line of Jerry Herman with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> The topic of the day 2012 expectations just again following up on some of the thoughts earlier.
It would appear that that would require a pretty abrupt improvement in starts so as to drive total so as to drive the better performance in the second half of the year.
Is that the current expectation? No not abrupt.
I think the expectation is that we're at a trough and that we'll begin to see improvements from this point forward for DeVry University for Carrington Colleges continue to see the benefit of the growth we've seen in Chamberlain College of Nursing Ross Universities.
We had some slowdown in enrollments for strategic purposes in the past.
We expect that to be back in the growth pace.
The other Brasil Advanced Academics Becker Professional Education will add to that growth in our portfolio of institutions.
And so again when you go across the mix of all that and see improvement occurring albeit not abrupt but see gradual improvement at DeVry University undergrad and at Carrington and you end up with what we're looking at today.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And Daniel just a quick follow-up with regard to your comments on the economy.
This one certainly does look different than a lot ones we've seen.
And in light of that there seems to be a lot of reluctancy for potential students to sort of pay the price.
And the question is about pricing in fact and your strategies and theories on pricing in this economy.
We're not really seeing that being affected very much because our tuition pricing is generally viewed in the context of the competition.
And since the competitive comparison is often to the public sector the colleges and universities which after all are about 90 80 or 70-plus percent of all colleges out there plus the independent colleges and universities another 15%.
So that 90% is non-private sector competition and their rates of tuition increase are ranging I've seen 9% I've seen 15% I've seen 20% rates of tuition increase.
So we have raised our tuition in the 3% range at DeVry University undergrad or maybe a little bit higher than that in some of the healthcare schools.
By comparison from a competitive standpoint that's where we find ourselves.
So no we don't really see a big difference there in the near term.
Our next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with Analysis.
I apologize it's a little noisy where I am.
So I'm going to ask a couple of questions then go on mute so hopefully the questions will be clear.
The first is actually following up on what Jerry just asked.
And it's true that the public schools keep raising their tuition but they were facing a different set of challenges.
And obviously you can keep raising it at whatever rate the competition does but in the meantime it seems like in this economy it's hard to imagine that people having gotten at least somewhat more price-sensitive.
And so the question is what would you need to see before you would consider using more scholarships or more aggressive using scholarships or selective tuition discounting? Second question going back to the guidance question it's more philosophical.
Historically DeVry didn't give any guidance to speak of and given that there's so little visibility from our perspective we appreciate that you're giving more guidance now.
But the formula of giving more guidance at a time when it seems like there's less visibility it just makes it hard from our perspective to feel like that we can have a lot of confidence in that.
I think that's a lot of why people keep coming back to this.
So if there's anything you could say about what it is that you're seeing whether it's a funds rate to your marketing or anything else that gives you confidence that this summer term is the bottom will be appreciated.
Okay.
And Corey we'll also correct your firm's name is First Analysis not Analysis.
So we'll get that in there too for you while you're on mute.
So the tuition and in terms of scholarships well we do offer scholarships.
In fact last year it was about 10% of our earnings we gave back in the subsequent year in terms of scholarships so several tens of millions in scholarships.
And we are taking a look at the level but also but not a I wouldn't say a dramatic increase in the local scholarship but a difference in the way we allocate that.
Can we be more strategic and more impactful and help our students finance their education? And I'm glad you asked that that way because it's really more of helping students with affordability than it is about lowering the tuition level itself.
So that's I think the right way from our experience to look at tuition.
And so the guidance and giving more comfort here on what we're seeing -- Rick you may want to add some things here.
But I think that part of it is we did see ourselves in this last period lose a step at DeVry University undergraduate and at Carrington the 2 places where we've talked quite a bit.
And the fact that we talk about them and some of the internal metrics that you act -- asks about we did see ourselves lose a step in the some of the conversion ratios and some of the inquiry the levels inquiries.
And so we do think that internal execution and being more effective in optimizing our marketing and recruiting processes are a part of the formula for improving that performance as I cited at the beginning of the call.
So that's something that we bring effort on.
And we have a lot of confidence in our operating managers and our ability to execute and improve our operations.
So that may give you a little more confidence and comfort.
That's going to be for you to judge and you have to judge us by our results hold us accountable.
Yes.
And the perspective we provided for the year we don't give guidance per quarter or anything but we do -- coming into a new year we want to at least give some thoughts as to what how we see it.
It's based upon our plans and strategies and executional improvements that Daniel mentioned.
And it's all incumbent upon that and also continue to deal with this uncertain and not totally stable economic environment.
So it is I guess from a confidence level probably not as confident quite honestly as we were 2 or 3 years ago but it is based upon what we see as our plans and strategies the risks that we see out there and how we can manage through that.
And there is some -- it's only as good as a forecast can be and there's probably wiggle room up and down from there.
But that's why it could be equal to this year's level or a bit below.
But we're going to do our best to see some growth.
Earnings yes.
In terms of earnings I think Rick was mentioning.
But we do think we can grow revenues.
Yes.
But there's no guarantees in life either.
Okay.
And our next question comes from the line of Arvind Bhatia with Sterne Agee.
Actually just wanted to go back to AUC for a second.
Wondering if you can provide some color on what kind of growth rate and top line its experiencing enrollment growth rate et cetera.
And then I guess backing into the numbers from the $0.05 accretion you were talking about tax rate and amortization et cetera it looks like it's the margins might be in the high 20s.
So wanted to see if we're kind of on the right track.
And then in terms of the multiple of EBITDA it looks like you might have paid mid- to high-teens.
If you don't want to be specific can you help us get some help there that's on the right track? And then second question is on we're all trying to figure out the growth et cetera where that's coming from.
The Business Tech and Management section is that also -- do you expect growth in that segment as well I guess as part of the revenue growth you're talking about? Okay thanks.
Let me try the AUC and then maybe turn it over to Rick to talk about and Pat jump in too if you like on the growth in BTM.
So AUC we're not going to give a percentage or a specific number forecasted growth rate.
But it is AUC is growing.
We expect it to continue to grow because there's such a tremendous need to serve the need for -- to solving the physician shortage.
So we do expect growth but it will be growth I think be relatively -- the kind of enrollment growth that historically probably long-term trend you've seen at Ross University School of Medicine as well would be one marker you could look to.
And the most important thing is that we'll continue to increase investing the resources the academic resources and support resources either to support whatever level of growth that we have.
The margin the number that you had was quite a bit low.
But whatever it is I would expect it in near term to come down because we're going to be investing in academic quality just like we did it as I mentioned earlier in the call at Chamberlain College of Nursing and actually just as we did at Ross University School of Medicine and Ross University school of veterinary medicine.
Many people will remember that in '03 when we made that acquisition.
We told everybody just like I told you now: You see the margins they're coming down because we're investing in academic quality and by investing in quality that leads to higher levels of student success and that leads to more applications and that leads to growth.
So "quality plus diversification equals growth." In terms of the acquisition price that we paid I hold it here in my hand the first and only case in recorded human history of an analyst going back and saying we got it wrong.
And this one says taking another look at the acquisition price of Ross University now that we've taken another look at it this was about a year after -- I'm not going to name I know you're on the call.
You wrote this.
But it really does not appear that it's expensive when you look at the strong financial results.
Put in the context of the EBIT tax and look at the low cost of debt or in this case no cost of debt used to fund the acquisition.
And so I think you'll find that in this case as well it will be returns we expect to be well in excess of our cost of capital.
So that's the thing you see in terms of growth in the BTM segment.
Pat? Sure.
In terms of BTM for full year revenue we still expect that to be up year-over-year based on the enrollment trends in the second half of the year improving as well as our year-over-year tuition price increase.
But if you split the year revenue will be down in the first half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Maybe Rick or Daniel any sense as we look at fiscal 2011 of the magnitude of the dollar spend on some of the initiatives that kind of ramped up during fiscal '10 such as Project DELTA the student services initiatives those kinds of things? I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of what the year-over-year comparison on that spend may look like for the P&amp;L excluding obviously what capital spend you made.
But I'm just trying to get a better sense of what the incremental spend or lower spending may look like in fiscal '12.
Let me just clarify that question a little bit are you talking about from '10 to '11 or from '11 to '12? Well obviously there's a kind of ramp-up in spend from '10 to '11 so I'm trying to get a sense of as you look at comparing 2012 versus 2011 some of those bigger initiatives that were kind of decent drags on the P&amp;L for you in 2011 how much of an abatement in spending could we expect in 2012? Okay so things like DELTA things like new campuses in terms of that? Yes I mean DELTA is largely capital and we've seen the impact of that really now go into the next few years an increased depreciation expense.
But you set that aside I'm just looking at the operating margins for BTM year-over-year.
We ended fiscal 2011 at 24.6% compared to fiscal 2010 at 23%.
So despite the new campus openings locational things et cetera we more than offset that with operating leverage and revenue growth.
If you move down to Medical and Health Care you see some compression in the operating margin which was largely driven by Carrington and despite some new campus openings in Chamberlain we're able to improve our operating margins there.
So based on from '10 to '11 we were able to more than offset that increased investment.
And going in to '11 to '12 we wouldn't necessarily expect that same improvement due to a lesser effect of operating leverage because of declining enrollments.
Okay fair enough.
And then just a quick one.
You mentioned how many locations you expect to add in the BTM segment.
How do we think about capacity expansion within Chamberlain and Carrington or if any in Carrington this year? Yes.
I think Carrington we've got the new Pomona campus that opened at the latter part of this past year '11.
So we expect we certainly would hope to see that to be the incremental growth opportunity as you move into this new year fiscal '12.
And then we have Mesquite Texas on the horizon.
Chamberlain has the new -- late in the year was Houston and now we've just started up in Miramar and I mentioned a couple of others Indianapolis Atlanta later in the year.
And then I think I mentioned the DeVry University ones earlier.
So you've got what is that 7 or 8 or 9 across -- plus DeVry Brasil at Sao Luiz working on that and also a new campus building Faculdade Barbosa.
So 7 8 9 something like that this year for new campuses across the family.
Okay.
And then final question for me within the online business probably as both to color as well the undergrad online.
Any sense of new program rollouts or introductions? Or is it just a continuation of the programs you already have? New program -- what was that? For online.
Oh for online? Yes pretty much all of the programs that we roll out we roll out online.
There's exceptions but in general it really does add to the online which is a great opportunity.
And it also gives us great information in regionally where is most of the interest coming from and that helps us sort of the best market -- realtime market research you could have to help identify which campus rollouts to take those programs to as well.
So online will be getting more programs as well.
All right ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's event.
I'd now like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Daniel Hamburger for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well by the way one of the things that I probably should have mentioned in response to one of the questions is there's still a great long-term value proposition here for going to college.
The jobless rate for college grads is still like half the jobless rate for people without college and so forth you all know the statistics.
So while we're in this near-term discontinuity the long-term value proposition is very strong.
And it's interesting that even with all the craziness around the debt ceiling coming out of that one thing you might have noticed was the bipartisan agreement for the need to support higher education because without an educated workforce we have no economic growth.
That's for sure.
So I would like to thank everyone for all your questions.
We did run long to try it to get in all the questions that we could.
Our next results call is scheduled our quarterly results call is scheduled for October 25 and we'll be announcing first quarter results and enrollment for the period.
So thank you all for your continued support of DeVry.
And you have a great afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 DeVry Results Conference Call.
My name is Regina and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Today's event is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Ms.
Bates please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Gunst Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker Vice President and Controller.
I'll now review the Safe Harbor provisions of this results call.
This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
Such forward-looking statements reflect among other things management's current expectations plans and strategies anticipated financial results all of which are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Please see our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information about forward-looking statements and related risk factors.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's results call are available until November 15 2011.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for more information.
With that I'll turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thank you Joan.
Thank you all very much for joining us today for our fiscal 2012 first quarter results call.
I'll start off with an overview of the quarter and then Rick and Pat will walk us through the results.
And then we'll of course open it up and try to maximize the time available for your questions.
So let me comment on the factors that are driving our results our plans are to improve and why we believe these are near-term issues and the long-term growth outlook is strong.
All the 3 near-term headwinds that we talked about on our last call remain true today.
First after several years of exceptional growth we've seen a reversion to the mean.
This trend has presented some near-term downward pressure and over the long term we still believe in what we call the return to the historical mid- to high single-digit range.
Second still working through some operational adjustments that we put in place related to the new regulations.
As we talked about last quarter these adjustments have included reevaluating our marketing affiliates to make sure they comply with the new regulations increase training of our employees on the new regulations such as misrepresentation and what that means for our institutions and helping our employees adapt to our new performance management system.
Adjustments we've been making have been a distraction to our employees and have impacted our results but we're working through them as quickly as thoroughly as possible and don't foresee them being a long-term issue.
The third headwind is the one that we see having the greatest impact on our performance and that's the economy.
The economy is lousy and in particular unemployment has remained high for an extended period.
These conditions are impacting all of higher education not just the private sector.
This new data out from the Graduate Management Admissions Council.
Those are the people that administer the GMAT exam.
And that said the applications for full-time MBA programs dropped an average of 9.9% from a year ago.
Nearly 1/3 of these programs reported decreases of more than 10%.
SO you might say to yourself "Well that's odd." Usually in bad times MBA applications go up.
Well it did at first.
But now with unemployment persisting for so long it's turning the other way.
Similarly according to the Council of Graduate Schools enrollment of new students at all graduate schools taken together fell for the first time since 2003.
Even enrollments at community colleges have slowed dramatically over the last year.
Now community colleges and some other segments of higher education are somewhat countercyclical.
Typically when unemployment goes up people go back to school.
It's not the unemployment level it's the duration of high unemployment that's key now.
The sentiment we're seeing from potential students is very risk-averse very cautious when it comes to spending making a significant commitment of any kind.
So this point really struck home for me when I was recently in Houston doing a focus group with some DeVry University students.
And one of the students mentioned that his cousin just graduated from high school last June chose to put off attending college for a year.
He knows he needs to go to college just putting it off a year.
It's not affordability per se if you will loans are available grants are available.
It's more of the psychological effect of the economy on prospective students.
Just as people are putting off buying homes even when housing prices are cheap and interest rates are extremely low some students are deciding to put off enrollment commitments until things begin to improve.
So the countercyclical trend has reversed itself.
This could imply that once the economy begins to show improvement and the job market rebounds we'll see students go back to school who'd previously put off that decision.
We've been experiencing these headwinds first hand particularly at 2 of our institutions.
As you saw from our enrollment results last quarter the DeVry University undergrad and in Carrington Colleges our enrollments decline.
We're disappointed as we know you are too by our financial results this quarter.
We entered the year optimistic to see some upward improvement in enrollment trends but to date just haven't seen that occurring.
As enrollment trends continue to remain uncertain we're focused on controlling the factors we can control.
And so let me highlight our action plan to improve our results.
First off we're being very disciplined in controlling costs and deferring spending where appropriate and carefully matching our resources to our student population.
For example we've reduced about 100 positions in administrative functions which we were able to do given new IT capabilities that we've implemented and this is an example of the investment that we made in Project DELTA is paying off.
We haven't talked a lot about these kinds of efficiency improvements but we want you to know that it is a focus.
We'll continue to prudently align our resource levels with our enrollment trends.
Second improve awareness building.
We're refining our communications to optimize our spend and to better connect with potential students.
We're reallocating our mix pure inquiries from Web advertising more from search tools from networks our website.
We're demonstrating that we can still grow even in the face of the headwinds I mentioned before like the softness in the overall graduate school market.
Keller Graduate School of Management is still in positive territory and Chamberlain's Master of Science in Nursing is growing nicely as well.
We've actually in the Masters side we're taking share based on having a strong value proposition and this increased awareness that we're focused on driving.
Third we're enhancing the student recruitment process.
At Carrington Colleges we're implementing a new centralized contact center that will create a faster more efficient response to potential students.
We're also helping students find the necessary financing that they need to pursue a degree.
Last fiscal year we distributed over $28 million in scholarships to our students.
Now we're looking at ways to optimize our scholarship strategy even more and help students start and stay in college.
Fourth new programs and new locations in high-demand areas.
We just received approval from the Illinois Board of Higher Education for new Doctor of Nursing Practice at Chamberlain this is pending higher learning commission approval.
At DeVry Brasil new programs in engineering have been a growth driver.
We're on target to open 9 to 10 new campuses in fiscal '12 across DeVry University Chamberlain Carrington and DeVry Brasil.
And so this is an important part of our action plan to drive growth as well.
And fifth is building the team.
We're confident in our ability to manage through this cycle and the key reason for this is the strength of DeVry's team.
We continue to add outstanding talent.
Last month we hired Dr.
Andrew Jeon formerly of Partners Harvard Medical International to succeed Dr.
Tom Shepherd following his retirement at DeVry Medical International.
DeVry Medical International includes Ross University School of Medicine Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine and American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine.
At Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine we've just appointed Dr.
Elaine Watson to serve as Dean beginning in February.
Dr.
Watson will come to us from the University of Edinburgh one of the world's leading veterinary medical schools.
We believe she'll continue to drive the quality of our programs to the next level.
And we've deepened our bench of talent at Carrington Colleges with the addition of Dr.
Tamara Rozhon to serve as President of Carrington College and Melissa Esbenshade as the new VP of Marketing at Carrington.
I was recently at a meeting with Anne Mulcahy former CEO of Xerox who led their impressive resurgence.
She spoke -- she talked about turnarounds in tough economic times like we have today and this is the time to get really tight very focused control costs reserve cash.
It's also a time to invest invest in your strategy invest in quality and in growth initiatives.
And that's what DeVry is doing investing in areas like healthcare.
We continue to see growth in nursing and medical fields.
That's why we acquired AUC American University of the Caribbean.
Investing internationally.
On the developed world the economy is struggling right now.
Developed countries are growing and that's also a long-term trend.
We're adding resources at DeVry Brasil.
Professional Education is a third growth area.
Our acquisition of ATC International is an investment in both Professional Education and this international trend.
We make these investments with confidence but what we're seeing now is a near-term discontinuity in the long-term growth trend.
Recent McKinsey studies cites the skills gap that we have in our workforce is one of the reasons for the high rate of unemployment.
Jobs are actually available but employers can't find the people adequately trained to fill those jobs.
It's been estimated that there's up to 3 million current job openings nationwide in the United States even though there are 14 million unemployed.
GE CEO Jeff Immelt said on 60 Minutes a couple of weeks ago that there are hundreds of thousands of openings for radiology technicians.
You see GE of course is one of the largest sellers of radiology machines.
So this skills gap remains a long-term driver of demand for clear focused education like Carrington's radiography program.
Our confidence is bolstered by these fundamental need for career-focused education and by the strong value proposition that we offer our students.
Recently we released a study we had commissioned by The Cicero Group which tracked wage growth from 2003 to 2010.
Graduates from 3 of our institutions in 7 states alongside a control group of individuals who expressed interest in one of these colleges but ultimately didn't pursue a degree.
At the end of the 7-year period bachelor's degree graduates from the DeVry institutions increased their earnings on average by 65%.
Compared to that control group the average was 18%.
Similarly for associate degree graduates wages increased on average 42% compared to 22% for the control group.
This study demonstrates that our graduates are receiving a significant return on their educational investment.
As another indicator of the value proposition that we offer students even in this tough job market our graduate employment rate for DeVry University students in the active job market employed in their field of study within 6 months of graduation is 87%.
Now the goal we hold ourselves accountable to has always been 9 out of 10.
So to hold ourselves accountable we're investing in more resources to help our students like our new partnership with CareerBuilder.
So there's clearly a need for programs that can bridge the skills gap.
That gap is going to continue to be a long-term demand driver for education and it will be filled by colleges with a strong value proposition of career-focused education.
Thank you for giving me a chance to give you that overview.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rick and Pat for the financial and enrollment results.
Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
As expected fiscal 2012 started out with continued revenue deceleration resulting in earnings falling below the prior year level for the first time since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.
Revenue in the quarter was $519 million down 0.5% versus prior year with the acquisitions of AUC and ATC International contributing about 150 basis points of growth in the quarter.
Net income of $57 million was down 22% versus prior year and earnings per share of $0.83 was down 19%.
And in the quarter our income tax provision was approximately $22 million and we invested about $34 million of capital in our various educational institutions.
This quarter results reflect a slowdown of top line growth driven by lower enrollments within DeVry University and Carrington and the resulting margin pressure.
Our overall effective tax rate was 27.9% in the quarter as compared to 34.5% in the first quarter last year and 33.1% for the full year of fiscal 2011.
The tax rate was quite a bit lower in the first quarter due to the lower mix of domestic source income this year stemming from earnings decline at DeVry University and Carrington combined with earnings growth at DeVry Brasil and the addition of AUC.
We also obtained certainty on the safe tax treatment of our online operations that resulted in a favorable catch-up adjustment for prior years as well as an ongoing benefit.
We anticipate the full year fiscal 2012 tax rate now to be in the 31% to 32% range.
Cost of educational services expense in the quarter increased by about 4.5% versus prior year and up about 3% excluding the AUC and ATC acquisitions.
Student services and administrative expense was up 10.7% versus prior year.
About 1/2 of that increase was for incremental inquiry generation and new location support primarily at DeVry University and Chamberlain.
About 170 basis points of this growth was driven by expenses from the addition of AUC and ATC which were not part of the organization last year.
And the balance or about 330 basis points of the growth was the impact of inflation change management activities and the impact of hiring from prior year.
We continue to invest resources to improve academic quality and enhance student services while at the same time reducing expenses where revenues are not consistent with the cost structure on a location-by-location basis.
We've eliminated or deferred hiring cut discretionary spending and continue to pursue cost-saving initiatives with materials supplies and other outside services.
We're managing our cost structure closely while we're making prudent investments for future growth where warranted.
So with that overview let's now shift to the operating segment results which are further detailed in our release.
Starting with Business Technology and Management segments revenue was down about 4% versus prior year in the quarter driven by the decline in total undergraduate enrollment reported last period.
Enrollment at the graduate level was up about 2% in September.
We don't have a perfect crystal ball showing us when the undergrad trend will turn positive but we do believe long-term growth is expected to return to the mid- to high single digits.
Segment earnings were $61.4 million in the quarter down 27% versus prior year driven by the revenue decline and resulting margin compression.
We've been focusing on reducing costs where appropriate without compromising academics through program development and new location expansions the benefit of which we'll see in fiscal 2012 and beyond.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up about 8% with varying performance among the institutions.
Chamberlain College of Nursing delivered strong top and bottom line results fueled by the 16% total enrollment growth reported last period.
The growth is being driven by our 4 new locations added over the past year or so in Chicago; Arlington Virginia; Houston; and Miramar Florida; combined with increased enrollment at our existing locations and online due to strong demand for nursing professionals.
We continue to expand Chamberlain's geographic reach with Atlanta and Indianapolis our next expansion targets pending approvals.
At DeVry Medical International September term new student enrollment showed strong growth as expected up 23% versus prior year due to overlapping the weaker new student enrollment last year at Ross's Medical School campus.
Total enrollment was up 6.3%.
AUC contributed 192 new students and 1 226 total students to these results.
The integration efforts with AUC are going as planned under the leadership of AUC's Dean Dr.
Bruce Kaplan.
Management results reflect the effects of the double-digit enrollment's declines reported last period and prolonged poor economic environment and hesitancy of prospective students to pursue an education.
We continue to address admissions and marketing-related opportunities and firmly believe in the long-term value proposition.
And we're going to report Carrington enrollment next in December.
Earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter were down 17% versus prior year with strong performances at Chamberlain and the addition of AUC offset by the decline in earnings results at Carrington.
Finally revenue within International K-12 and Professional Education increased about 7% in the quarter while the operating loss increased versus prior year.
Revenue growth for the quarter benefited from strong student enrollment growth at DeVry Brasil with new student enrollment up about 29% and total enrollment up 18%.
This growth is largely driven by the sharing of best practices that has occurred over the past 1.5 years or so.
Revenue also grew at Advanced Academics while Becker experienced a slight revenue decline.
You may recall that Becker is overlapping strong comps from the year ago period driven by the rush to take the CPA exam in advance of the 2011 exam change.
The higher operating loss from the quarter versus prior year resulted from increased investments in new campus location cost at DeVry Brasil.
In addition the first quarter represents a seasonal low point for tuition revenue at DeVry Brasil Advanced Academics and ATC International.
Though fiscal 2012 is off to a slower start than in past years due to the enrollment challenges at DeVry University and Carrington during our conference call last quarter in August I've stated that earnings in the first half of the year will be below prior year given the impact of the enrollment deceleration and tougher year-over-year comparisons.
This is still the expectation given our first quarter results.
We also stated that we expect the second half earnings to be up versus prior year with the full year likely to be plus or minus the fiscal 2011 level and that was predicated upon improved enrollment at DeVry University undergrad and Carrington to be able to show earnings growth for the year.
Even though enrollment declines appeared to be stabilizing we don't expect full year earnings growth at this point given that enrollments are not improving as much as we had hoped.
Back in August we thought we were seeing some early signs of improving economy but then the U.S.
debt ceiling debacle and the European debt crisis delivered yet another blow to consumer confidence.
And so while we're not happy to report a decline in revenue and net income we're focused on improving our operating results.
And we also think it's important it's very important to keep things in perspective.
First these declines follow a 5-year period of above trend growth with revenue growing about 20% per year on average and earnings growing at 50% per year over this 5-year period.
Second our economics are still quite favorable with double-digit net income margins.
And finally our balance sheet and financial position are very strong.
And so with that I'm going to turn over to Pat to talk more about that balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Thanks Rick and good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $187 million versus $196 million last year.
The strong cash generation drove our cash and marketable security balance to $325 million at the end of the quarter as compared to $453 million last year.
We funded the acquisition of AUC from our international cash balances while continuing to remain debt-free.
Our net accounts receivable balance was about $151 million versus $161 million last year.
This lower accounts receivable balance was in part the result of decreased revenues but also attributed to our students' ability to pay back their accounts based on positive student outcomes as well as our continued focus on student service and collections management.
Our bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with bad debt expense for the quarter actually down to 2.3% of revenue as compared to 3% last year; again an indicator of our students paying back their accounts even during these tough times and the strong value proposition of our programs.
We're proud of our team's strong focus on receivables and cash management.
Capital spending for the quarter was $34 million versus $23 million spent last year.
This spending was focused on facility improvements to better serve our students across all of our institutions as well as new DeVry University campuses expansion at DeVry Brasil and also within Ross University and Chamberlain College of Nursing so that we can help meet society's needs for more doctors and nurses.
Total capital spending for the fiscal year is likely to be in the $170 million range which includes capital investments and our newly acquired AUC institution.
Finally during the quarter we repurchased just over 1 million shares of our common stock for about $44.5 million or on average about $44 per share.
Under our structured 10b5-1 plan we will be repurchasing more shares with the recent stock price volatility.
We are now more than halfway through our sixth $100 million program.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
Before you open it up to questions it's important to mention that our diversification strategy has continued to be a real asset for us.
While we're disappointed in the softer enrollments at DeVry University undergraduate and at Carrington we're encouraged by the enrollment increases that we're getting at several of our institutions namely Keller Chamberlain College of Nursing Ross University's Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine American University of the Caribbean and DeVry Brasil.
Overall our diversification strategy helped to mitigate the decline with total enrollment across all DeVry institutions down less than 1% to about 123 000 students.
As we go forward we'll do everything we can to manage our institutions efficiently and to focus on controlling the things we can control.
No matter what we won't sacrifice quality.
When students attend one of our institutions they don't plan their educational experience by the quarter and neither do we.
We'll continue to make the necessary investments in the programs locations and services that have made the DeVry family of institutions so successful over the long run.
And so we feel very positive about the long-term opportunities that we see.
And with that we'll be very happy to take your questions.
Okay great.
Before we give our instructions I'm just going to as the participants to ask one question and maybe one quick follow-up.
And if you jump back into the queue we're going to give you as much time as possible today to ask your question.
So Regina if you could give our callers the instructions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question today comes from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to revisit just really quickly the outlook you've provided.
I think -- did you say that you wouldn't see revenue growth this year and that earnings would be or profits would be down slightly is that what I heard? Actually I didn't say anything about revenue growth so I did say that earnings were likely to be down this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And should we always think of Q1 as sort of a negative drag on margins from the International K-12 and Professional? Is that sort of the reasonable way to think about that part of the business? Yes it is.
Given the fact that at DeVry Brasil there's only one month of revenue-generating activity based on the semester start there as well as Advanced Academics with the high school and Medical.
Middle school professions really don't start in earnest until the 1st of September.
Your next question today comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff for Andrew.
When you look at continuous student enrollment what do you see in persistence particularly within DeVry University? Jeff could you repeat that? Research Division</strong> What do you see in student persistence within DeVry University within this quarter in the current quarter? Okay.
Jeff we don't break out retention as a metric.
But I can just in broad terms tell you that it's at a historical -- it's overall rates are up historically.
We did see some softness in the summer and we think that could continue here in the near term.
You've got a little bit of phenomenon of higher numbers of graduates driven by the higher enrollments that we saw in past enrollment cycles of course.
And some of the same economic factors that I talked about affecting Houston enrollment.
It could be a little bit of a pressure on persistence as well.
So that's a little bit of color around that issue for you.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate it.
As a follow-up are you seeing changes in the average class sizes within DeVry University given the decline in enrollments? I don't have a number to report for you.
I mean it would be expected you might see the average class size down a little bit but part of what we do is manage that and where it makes sense to consolidate class sections and we certainly -- we do that where that is possible without impinging on either academic quality or in student convenience in the schedule.
But yes on the margin that tends to compress a little bit.
And so this have that experience for them whenever you have a contraction in enrollments.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any sense of magnitude of either the savings efficiency savings you'd get from those lay-offs and anything else from the new system? And then also any sense of how much cost you might be looking to or able to cut this year? Is it likely to be a material thing that could sort of reduce the amount of margin degradation that happens from the falling enrollment? Or should we not expect there to be a real rate of change on cost from sort of the trend this quarter? Sure.
Controlling as Daniel said during the call a number of factors that we can positively influence and we continue to match our cost structure with our revenue expectations on an individual location basis.
So that's an opportunity and will continue to be an opportunity.
At the same time we're deploying both human and financial resources to further invest in those areas and programs of high demand across the portfolio of institutions.
And we expect these savings in terms of deferred hiring renegotiating contracts of vendors consolidating certain sections without impinging on academic quality certainly to be in the tens of millions of dollars this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the quick follow-up is just last quarter -- I guess earlier on the call you said to date you haven't seen enrollment trends improve at all.
Could you just give any color on what maybe you thought you would have seen to date and that hasn't occurred? Or what makes you say that statement? Well one piece on that Gary is I think Rick mentioned that in the spring in the summer we collectively United States saw an improvement in consumer sentiment.
We saw the economy seeming to go up a little bit.
And then we got hit with the debt ceiling debacle which was right at the time actually that we spoke last in one of these calls.
And then of course the European crisis as well.
And that debt ceiling debacle did really seem to give a blow to consumer confidence.
In fact somebody just handed me an hour ago off of Reuters a new article that said the confidence board index of consumer attitudes has fallen to its lowest level in 2.5 years.
And what they pointed to was that consumer attitudes had soured since the spring hit by fears of renewed recession political gridlock high unemployment volatility in the stock market.
So that was the change that we saw.
So I think it's consumer sentiment that is behind the decision to make that commitment.
Your next question is from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering on the longer term margin expectations for the business Daniel you've talked about the I guess the unsustainably high growth rates you've enjoyed in the last couple of years and margins got to the low 20s.
Is it unrealistic therefore to expect in the context of a new environment that that level of margin is achievable again? Well I think it really depends on the getting back to trend.
And we've had a historical trend of the mid to high single-digits enrollment growth.
Historically we've seen tuition increases that add a little bit on top of that.
So we're able to get to revenue growth that's somewhat above that.
You've got operating leverage which -- plus just being good managers we see a number of opportunities to run things more efficiently.
Project DELTA was a good example of that something that we started before this recent softness.
I'm glad we were looking ahead and making long-term investments.
And there's many other opportunities like that that can help you to drive earnings growth that is commensurate with the kind of the things that we're talking about here.
So that's one way of looking at it.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering though if you have a particular longer term margin target that you could share with us? Well this is Rick.
I agree with everything what Daniel said and what Pat talked earlier about the cost savings.
So we'll be able to mitigate some of the margin decline by some of the cost savings actions and try to look at this on a location-by-location basis but the risk has been -- will probably short term continue to be some deleveraging within our results.
But then once the long-term trends come back then we should be able to get back on a state back to margins where we have been the last couple of years.
We don't see the specific although.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to that DeVry new undergrad enrollment number.
I think it was minus 26 last quarter.
And I think Daniel at the time you'd said you'd hoped for a little bit better number.
And I know that the commentary you just gave around consumer confidence.
So should we be expecting another sort of minus 25% for the fall? Is that roughly where we're going to come out? Well we don't have forward guidance for you.
We don't expect any significant improvement at DeVry University or Carrington in the near term.
We see stabilization of the rate longer term getting back -- having a reversion back to trend.
But it's also possible that new student comparable numbers year-over-year could be a little bit choppy as we moderate.
I think over the long term mid- to high-single digit increases are sustainable and we think what we're seeing right now is sort of a near-term rate for discontinuity from the long-term trend.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up I think you'd said in your prepared remarks that you would spend more money on inquiries or leads is that correct? And have that not trend? And just I guess conversion fell off? Yes.
What I would say is that the color there is the interest is there on the part of prospective students.
So the inquiries while they're a little bit weaker overall I would say the bigger impact is more on the conversion to the ultimate enrollment.
So the interest is there.
The follow-up people are doing a great job of following up with the prospective students providing great customer service.
And then what you see is sort of right at the end -- gosh I just can't commit right now.
And that's where that consumer sentiment that consumer confidence and the prolonged down economy really the prolonged persistence of unemployment is really having the impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Trace Urdan with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Daniel at the beginning of your prepared remarks you've commented on the impact of the regulatory changes on the staff and you talked about some of the training that you had to do.
And I know that you had to make some changes to the way you compensate your enrollment counselors.
I'm wondering if you believe that any of those regulatory changes may have had an impact on the student starts and whether you have any kind of visibility on when you might be able to roll past some of that disruption? Okay.
Let me comment on those issues.
Let's start off first by saying something I know that you know but just in the way that it came out I just want to make sure that nobody has a misperception or misconception just because in the media the general media is not as informed as the people on this call probably are.
There are misperceptions.
One of those is that well we were paying commissions and now we can't pay commissions anymore.
We were not paying commissions before.
We are not paying commissions now.
We were compliant with the compensation rules before and we remain and will remain compliant now.
But there was a change in the performance management.
For example for an admissions adviser or recruiter the enrollments were a part and were not the sole measure by any stretch but they were a part of performance management.
And now it's not.
And so any time that there's a change there's a learning curve and there's a lag effect.
So that's an example.
Another one that I would give you Trace is that the managers.
They've been somewhat unclear in how to best coach their enrollment advisers the recruiters.
And so being good DeVry people and the DeVry culture is very conservative and they act that way.
They're erring on the side of being very cautious and very conservative.
And so that's the kind -- when we say a distraction or an adjustment that's the kind of thing that we're talking about.
And yes I think that has had an impact very hard to quantify but has had an impact on our performance in the near term.
But the reason that we have confidence in the long term is that these things -- we've been through these roads before over many many years and even decades we've had changes in these kinds of rules.
We've always adapted to that.
In fact come out stronger on the other side of those changes.
And we know that the fundamental value proposition of the program is ultimately what drives the enrollment.
It's the need for the education that the students are looking for and so that's why we have a confidence over the longer term.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any kind of sense of when you think things will be sort of back to normal? If that's the proper concept.
Yes.
I really don't have a crystal ball for you on exact timing but I put this more in the near term not in the long-term category.
The next question comes from the line of Jason Anderson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm in for Bob and Jerry today.
Just a question on to your new locations and new program approvals.
Have you seen any delays there? And obviously you commented on a couple of state approvals I noticed HLC pending just curious on the trend you're seeing there.
Sure.
Not a major shift there.
There's always from time to time a certain state or a certain jurisdiction where it can take some time and those are barriers to entries or moats as Warren Buffett likes to call them.
When you're on the other side of them they look really good.
So when I said and I think Rick mentioned there's also pending approvals.
That's our -- we always say that because until you have the final approval so I was very careful to use that kind of compliant language.
And we've always done that even before it was cool even before there was new misrepresentation language I guess.
So that's just our standard way until it's final it's not final.
But now we do expect 9 to 10 new locations this year many new programs.
We're actually investing more.
We're spending more on new program rollouts because we see high demand areas.
So that's an area where -- most people have asked "Why don't you just cut costs across the board if things are -- your earnings are down?" Well the earnings are down but we still have positive earning hill 11% after-tax margins.
And so we still have the resources to invest in growth opportunities and that's our job is to serve the growing need for career-focused education.
So new programs new locations definitely a part of the plan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a quick follow-up do you expect -- is there any distribution throughout the year? You'd expect those to land earlier or later or spread out? I have a lot of color on the spread there.
We've already got a few of them.
In DeVry University they're already in place and starting and then others will come later in the year.
So on average it's pretty evenly spread throughout the year.
Yes.
I was just on -- I mentioned Houston and I visited DeVry University.
I was also there for a ribbon-cutting or grand opening on a new Chamberlain College of Nursing location.
So those are definitely one of the most rewarding parts of my job is to open a new nursing campus.
So we're certainly looking forward to doing more of that.
But those tend to come throughout the year and we tend to focus on doing several in parallel.
Because of those approvals we can't always control when you get those approvals so you put several lines out in the water so that you maximize your chance to serve those programs in those markets when you get the approvals.
Your next question comes from the line of Kelly Flynn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to the Business Technology segment revenue.
It was a bit lower than I was modeling off of the summer enrollments and so I'm just wondering if you can clarify.
Was there anything new going on with pricing any discounting that may have impacted that? Or was there an incremental persistence this year which I think you might have alluded to earlier Daniel? The only thing might be maybe the way you're modeling the persistence I think.
No real change in the pricing or the scholarships or discounting or things like that other than what's already out there in the publicly announced world.
Research Division</strong> But the persistence did get worse due to graduation? Is that how to think about it? A little bit but I don't think that was a major probably a major factor.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I also had a question on the Business Technology Management segment but on the cost side.
So I know you've talked about some of the cost-saving measures things like contract renegotiations.
I was hoping you might be able to speak more specifically to just the variable portion of the cost structure and to what degree you can get cost savings just based on being able to take out faculty costs as the student population decreases.
Yes.
I'll take that first.
Pat join in.
But we are able to modify as Pat mentioned earlier our scheduling within DeVry University.
If enrollments are down we can vary that for some faculty.
We do have full-time and we do have some part-time faculty.
So that's abled in adjustments.
And some of the cost savings actions that Pat alluded to we've implemented some of that at the end of last year implemented that during the quarter so that will carry forward and drive more savings as we go on throughout the year.
Pat? Yes.
But to your point in terms of when we referenced tens of millions of dollars labor represents the largest portion of that and again driven primarily by deferring the hiring and benefiting from the rightsizing that we did in the fourth quarter of last year and having that carry through this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly I was hoping just for kind of an expectation management goal here that -- as I calculated in the quarter you just reported that pretax income was down about 29%.
So if you've got similar trends at DeVry undergrad in terms of new students similar trends at Carrington is it fair to assume decelerating revenue there and maybe some cost savings offsetting that? But the bottom line is is there any reason to think that you offer your change in the pretax income is just not getting materially better in the next quarter or 2? Well again we don't give any quarterly guidance.
Corey as you know we do anticipate as I said in my comments that earnings in the first half of the year are going to be down and we do expect things to improve from an earnings comparison to prior year as we go into third and fourth quarter.
And Corey also we didn't see your research report so will give a little commercial for your research report that just came out I guess in the last few days.
And these guys did a survey of prospective students and showed that the sort of a decoupling of the historical relationship between high unemployment and enrollment growth that showed that maybe economic recovery have a positive impact on enrollment.
And so I appreciate the analysis.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that Daniel.
And if you have any questions feel free to follow up offline.
Your next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Daniel I had a question about your comments really attributing the weakness in student starts to the economy.
And I don't doubt that that's a big factor.
But given the operational changes that you've been making how do you disaggregate how much of the decline is due to operational changes which will clearly begin to cycle through over the next few terms versus the underlying economic environment? Well Sara the operational changes that you're referring to are what -- I equate that to the sort of the distraction factor around the new processes new performance management just things like that.
I should point out that I know you know this but some people may not we didn't change the admissions criteria.
We didn't -- and by the way our institutions are not open -- not going from open enrollment to having admissions criteria.
We already had admissions criteria.
DeVry University for example undergraduate which is where we're looking has had admissions criteria exam sort of test scores and other entrance criteria for many years.
So it's not likely we went from open enrollment to having those and therefore that caused the decline.
We'll continue to take a look at those.
We are looking at those and we may be tweaking those.
But that really wasn't a factor for us.
There's much more we think the economic and the consumer confidence factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately regarding scholarships.
In your prepared remarks did I understand correctly that you're planning to do more scholarships next year? And if so could you just talk about how that might be ramping? Well it's really being more strategic in the use of the scholarship dollars than any very large or even significant increase.
We will try to keep it in the same range where we have been but try to be more strategic in the use of that.
So instead of one student getting x maybe 2 students get half of x each administered in a more strategic and in a targeted way.
And also in addition to helping students start school how can we use the scholarship moneys that we do have to help students stay in school.
So we're proud of allocating a significant portion -- last year it's been about 10% of our after-tax earnings -- for scholarships and we want to continue to do that and find ways to do it more strategically.
Your next question comes from the line of Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on what you said as far as the impact of changes in the performance management plans.
I'm just curious has there been higher turnover of admission counselors? Or are they just being less productive given the new structure? It's more of the latter not a significant change in turnover.
And what we're doing about it is training our way through this.
So increased levels of training.
Part of the training by the way reassures our folks that a lot of what's happening is no change.
It's almost like reassuring people you don't have to change the way you serve your students the way you advise them about the value of an education or this particular program or that program none of that changes.
And what's interesting is a lot of our folks just sort of made the assumption that we're going to change everything.
I've got to do something different when a lot of the changes is just reassuring people to continue to do the good job with certain new students that you did for.
So it's very interesting but it's human nature and that adjustment process has a little bit more of a lag effect maybe than we thought.
The other impact there is in contrast to maybe some other publicly held organizations we started that a little bit earlier even like a -- we started back the year before.
We were very careful very conservative.
We waited until we saw all the rules in their final form.
And so I guess that's the bad news is it hits us -- it's hitting us a little bit late maybe we're a cycle behind.
The good news is we were extremely thorough.
We invested pretty heavily in that and some of those investments hit yet in the first quarter.
And we took the DeVry approach.
And we're including falling in over 600 of our managers across all the institutions for 3 solid days of training and it was a really good way to cement our culture.
We got very high marks from our people about that.
It was sort of a DeVry way of doing it.
So again the bad news of that is maybe it's hitting us a cycle or an step a little bit later.
The good news is it's a great long-term investment in DeVry's quality culture.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as your capital deployment strategy just given your stock price and your confidence in the business over the long term should we expect to pick up and share buybacks? Well there's been a little bit of that.
And the way I put them into context of how do we look at allocating capital and what are the priorities the first priority is to strengthen our core which we design as U.S.
postsecondary education.
So anything that we can do to strengthen that core improve academic outcomes is our first priority use of capital.
But because of the favorable economics tend to generate more capital that can even be deployed reasonably there so the second priority is to then grow the core.
So that's where new programs new locations those kinds of initiatives are very high return and learning in high return on investment use of capital.
Then the third priority is to leverage beyond the core and that's beyond U.S.
postsecondary so international postsecondary or global non-postsecondary so Professional Education for example.
And those are areas that we've targeted for deployment of capital including acquisitions.
So AUC fit right into that.
ATC International with Becker fit right into that.
And it's really then the fourth priority would be share repurchases.
And as you've seen that's been a little bit higher level in the last couple of periods of time just because of that lower share repurchase -- share price.
So yes that's how that fits in.
I want to make sure that get into a broader context of how we think strategically about deploying and being good stewards of our fellow owners' capital.
Your next question comes from the line of Amy Junker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 kind of related questions on margins.
First with respect to the Medical and Healthcare can you just maybe provide a little more color on what drove that pressure that you saw there particularly with the top line growth? I'm wondering if that's to do more to the AUC acquisition or if there is something else there that we should be thinking about? Sure.
With respect to the top line growth the AUC acquisition from a consolidated perspective accounted for about 150 basis points of the quarterly revenue growth.
So furthering that down to the Medical and Healthcare segment it was a very big driver.
With respect to the margin compression there's a confluence of 2 items that are driving that.
One that continued expansion in new location openings for Chamberlain and the continued investments in those new programs which will certainly pay off in the long run.
It's resulting in some margin compression.
But at the same time we're starting to overlap and get the benefit of mature campus openings at Chamberlain.
And then the largest driver there on the margin compression would be the continued deleveraging or deceleration at Carrington.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just related to the business and technology segment given your comments about the cost savings and it will probably help offset some of this.
But what risk is there that those margins -- we don't see those come back to kind of the past trough levels experienced in the last downturn meaning low-single digits.
Do you feel confident that you can avoid those kind of levels? We think what's different this time -- one thing that's different last time around you were referring back to the sort of '05 2005 timeframe.
Back then we were very heavily focused on technology -- engineering and technology programs.
And in response and also just driven by the opportunities that we saw we continue to see we've diversified quite a bit.
So DeVry University specifically has now about 1/2 business programs and about 1/2 engineering and technology.
They're evenly split and then there's a new complement of healthcare healthcare information programs in there as well like HIT healthcare information technology which is one of our faster growing programs.
So there's also a nice complement of graduates to the master's degree programs to Keller to complement the undergraduate programs.
So it's a more diversified mix within the BTM segment even within this more diversified overall group which is DeVry education overall.
So I think that's a very significant difference now relative to what we saw back at that timeframe.
Yes.
I think we've also optimized our real estate footprint compared to where we were in the early part of the century.
That was really having a big downward impact on margins.
Now we got better utilization and sharing of facilities with the likes of Carrington and Chamberlain and even Ross.
Boy that's an excellent point.
Go ahead Pat.
And then just lastly we further diversified in delivery modality wherein back in 2005 we would have -- had a much higher concentration of on-site students as our online population and online delivery modality has grown that does allow us some more flexibility on the cost end again without impinging on academic quality to rationalize sections a little faster than we could on the on-site during enrollment decline.
Yes excellent point.
That's a much more variable versus fixed cost structure over there.
And yes I think that real estate optimization process that we went through is a much  -- we're about to open our 100th DeVry University location this year.
We should have a nice celebration for that milestone.
But the mix of smaller real estate footprint relative to the larger is much different today than it was at that time.
So all factors to think about and so we really appreciate that question.
That really gives a lot to think about.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Condra with BMO Capital.
Great.
I just wanted to ask about the enrollment starts.
I think Rick had said last quarter that the summer decline would be the trough and I guess it's not real clear.
Do you still think that to be the case going forward? Well yes.
I think what we said is that we hoped to see some improvements not turning positive but to see that rate of decline stabilize and then turning positive.
I think we are seeing some stabilization.
But as I said in my comments we hope to see maybe some positive momentum and we have not seen that near term here so expect to see it as we go forward.
Hopefully we'll see some positive in the second half of the year and beyond.
But that's...
So you wouldn't say that that is a trough start rate then? Well in terms of rate of decline I think it's stabilized.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up just the proverbial update on the CFO search.
Sure.
The process continues.
We have driven an excellent process in my view and I appreciate the help of the team that's working with me on that.
Search a very inclusive diverse slate of candidates in a very strong process and we will keep you posted.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back the new enrollments in DVU for a second or BTM.
Any way you could give us some color on this called relative performance between the high school recruitment channel maybe the Internet channel and traditional media channels if that's possible? Or maybe even just high school channel versus other? I'm trying to get a sense if there's any major difference between are there -- the strong performance there kind of by an age group or by certain marketing channels you guys are employing? Sure I appreciate that.
Don't really have a lot to report there Brandon? By channel if you will nothing really stands out.
We do see opportunities in the near term with our channel that's one way to think of our outreach to community colleges; to the corporate corporations many of whom we serve by providing educational programs to their employees; government organizations the military; other groups like that in addition to our one at a time efforts with students.
But the only thing I could tell you is grad versus undergrad.
We saw more strength at the graduate level.
And programmatically healthcare looks -- is performing well.
And the other interesting one is accounting.
Accounting is a bright spot and something that we just continue to do a better job of letting the world know that DeVry University has one of the largest accounting program undergraduate accounting program in the country.
This surprises a lot of people because they think of us for engineering and engineering technology and so forth.
But accounting is a great value proposition and we strengthened that by the relationship between the undergraduate the Keller graduate and then the Becker.
So We call it DKB DeVry Keller Becker which allows students to save about 1.5 years and about $10 000 of tuition relative if they've done those 3 separately.
So that's a little bit of differentiation there.
Hope that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up kind of related to that.
It doesn't sound like there's been any major changes in terms of how you're approaching the Internet channel maybe a makeshift or so between traditional media and Internet.
But within the Internet channel maybe some color on how much churn you've either proactively managed or have seen within the aggregators that you work with and how much control you are taking now versus 3 or 6 months ago in terms of that downstream process.
I'm just trying to get a better idea of how the strategy is changing with the Internet side of things? Right I'm proud to say that DeVry has been the leader there.
And Dave Pauldine President of DeVry University in particular has been a leader for us but also for higher education in general and working with the association of private sector for colleges and universities to help set standards for these marketing vendors and advertising agencies to set standards for their conduct and standards of best practice for them.
It's great to hear everybody in this call used the word inquiries and to use that kind of language that we think is appropriate for higher education.
So early on in the cycle we commented on this I think last time that we did see some of the providers some of these vendors -- not necessarily we're doing anything wrong but if they couldn't meet our standards -- and DeVry was commended by many as having set the highest standards -- then we would just say "We're not going to do business with you until you do." We're starting to see that then they'll comply with the standards and so some of those are coming back online.
So there's still some disruption in that process some churn as you put it.
But I think we're starting to see stabilization there.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion on today's conference call.
I'll go and turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Was there another...
Do we have one more person in the queue? We do actually.
You have a question from the line of Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just the couple of questions asked and both upfront.
I know you guys don't like to go into persistence too much.
Any commentary you can help us with graduation rate over the coming fiscal year? Any interesting comps or discussion there? And then just the second question would be the pricing environment what do you think looking a year or 2 out? Okay.
Well Scott I would say that we are not one that provides a specific retention metric.
So the color I can give you is that overall the retention is up historically but we did see a little bit of softness here in the recent patch and that could continue.
You also -- you do have the effective graduates because we did have higher enrollments in the last couple of cycles.
So that's not unexpected.
We're still trying to tease out we think there's a little bit of the same issue of consumer confidence that's impacted this on the front end if you will can impact some students in terms of staying in school.
So what we're doing about it is continuing to enhance the quality of our programs.
We've added resources like what we call Student Central that provides a one-stop shop for student support services to help them stay in school talk a little bit about looking at the scholarship program how that might be able to help students stay in school as well as start school.
So all of those are some of the things that we're doing there.
In terms of pricing we tend to see that relative to the competition.
And as we see many state schools in the United States raise tuition in the 9% 11%.
In California it was 15% per year for a couple of years.
That our -- I think it was in the 2% or 3% DeVry University undergraduate as one example is viewed in that context.
And I guess I'll just -- operator I'll just go ahead and wrap it up because we're over time.
But we wanted to get all the questions in and I'd like to thank everyone for those questions and remind everyone that we'll report fall enrollments on December 12 and then our next quarterly results call is scheduled for January 26 of the new calendar year and then we'll report second quarter results for our fiscal year.
So thanks everyone for your continued support of DeVry.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our presentation today.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful evening.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 DeVry Incorporated Earnings Results Call.
My name is Melanie and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call will be recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Ms.
Bates please proceed.
Thank you Melanie.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our new Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and retiring CFO Rick Gunst; as well as Pat Unzicker Vice President and Controller.
I'll now review the Safe Harbor provisions of this results call.
This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Such forward-looking statements reflect among other things management's current expectations plans and strategies and anticipated financial results all of which are subject to known and unknown risks uncertainties and factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Please see our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information about forward-looking statements and related risk factors.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until February 3 2012.
To access these replays please refer to today's release for information.
With that I'll turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thank you Joan.
And thank you all very much for joining us today in our fiscal 2012 second quarter results call.
I'll begin with an overview followed by a brief introduction of our new CFO Tim Wiggins.
And then Rick and Pat will talk through the results before I wrap it up with a few operational highlights.
Let me start by saying there's no doubt we're unhappy as we know you are as well with the enrollment results we've reported in recent terms.
If you look back on 2011 it was a year of challenges.
Two of those challenges continue to negatively impact us mainly the adjustments we've made in response to the recent regulatory changes and the effects of the weak economy.
First the regulatory environment.
I think there's been some confusion about what impact the new regulations have had on DeVry.
Let's take a moment to clarify that.
Because there were 2 categories of regulation that came out last July one in which DeVry needed to make changes and one in which we didn't.
The first category was related to gainful employment and this is where we haven't had to make programmatic changes.
In fact we have yet to find any of our programs that failed to meet the criteria of the new regulations.
And so that was an area where we didn't have to make major business model changes.
The second category where we did need to make changes was our performance management system which we changed to comply with the new rules for employees and student recruiting and financial aid.
I think our comments about not changing our programs but yes changing in the performance management area may have caused some confusion so I hope this helps to clear it up.
But the greatest negative impact in our results continues to be from the uncertain economy.
The prolonged nature of this downturn and in particular the continued high level of unemployment rate has had a negative impact on the psyche of prospective students that we talked to.
And we aren't alone in experiencing declines.
Just last month a report from the American Association of Community Colleges showed the first decline in nationwide community college enrollment since unemployment rose 3 years ago.
Potential students continue to be risk averse and quite cautious when it comes to spending or making a commitment to attend college.
But the countercyclical trend that saw enrollments climb across all educational institutions has clearly reversed itself.
Many students are simply putting off going to college or going back to college.
Now with that reversal it could be that we'll see more of a pro-cyclical pickup as the economy improves.
We continue to experience these challenges mostly at DeVry University undergraduate in Carrington.
We clearly understand the challenges we're facing.
But even though these are -- there are external challenges here we believe we control our destiny.
And so above all I want to make it clear that we have a strong sense of urgency to improve these results stabilize enrollments and ensure that our cost structure is in line with our enrollments.
To do this we've put a performance improvement plan in place across the organization.
The plan focuses on 5 key initiatives.
First closely controlling our costs.
Along these lines we've targeted $80 million in cost savings for fiscal 2012 versus our original plan.
We've already realized about half this amount through the first 6 months of the year.
And we have a team of internal and external resources in place dedicated to finding ways to further improve operational excellence and to optimize our cost structure.
We're deferring spending where appropriate leaving noncritical positions unfilled.
We're gaining efficiencies through IT investments such as our Project DELTA system.
Now it's true that our expenses are up year-over-year so far but that's largely driven by acquisitions targeted growth investments such as new campuses and other spending decisions made last year.
Rick will discuss this more in a few minutes.
But I want to assure you that we're taking actions to reduce spending where appropriate and that we'll continue to match our costs to our enrollment levels.
Now the second element of our plan is improving the student recruiting process.
As I mentioned earlier we've made changes to our performance management system.
We've had questions about that so I'd like to give you a little color on that.
The 4 major aspects of this new system are the time our advisors invest in reaching out to and serving potential students the knowledge they demonstrate of our programs the quality of their interviews of prospective students and continued demonstration of DeVry's TEACH values: T for teamwork and communication; E employee focus; A accountability plus integrity equals ownership; C is continuous improvement; and H helping our students achieve their goals.
We've put this system in place just 6 months ago.
The changes not only impact employees in student-facing roles but their managers also having to do some things differently.
As many of you who work in financial services can probably relate to given Dodd-Frank and other regulations when you change the way performance management is done it can be a tough and distracting transition.
We've definitely experienced distractions that have impacted performance.
And as we work our way through the transition and refine the process we expect to see increased effectiveness as our advisors become more comfortable in the new system.
So third.
We're improving marketing and further building our brands.
DeVry is blessed with a number of very strong brands which we believe will be increasingly important in the education marketplace of the future.
A recent announcement with the U.S.
Olympic Committee is a great example of this.
The USOC has long been interested in finding a way for the athletes to pursue their education while maintaining their rigorous training regimens and competition schedules.
Well through this partnership our Team USA athletes will be given a chance to pursue a degree through the many programs that DeVry institutions offer.
Additionally this partnership with one of the world's most recognizable organizations will further enhance our reputation as well which really benefits everyone involved but in particular our country's athletes.
Also I think it's interesting that when Scott Blackmun the Chief Executive Officer of USOC was asked how he would answer criticism of having the USOC become aligned with a private sector publicly-held educational institution he was quoted as saying in the Chicago Tribune that "It is the fact that they are a private sector university that gives them the flexibility to support U.S.
Olympic and Paralympic athletes in this way." At the more tactical level of marketing to increase the quality and quantity of inquiries we're refining the way that we communicate to optimize our marketing dollars.
This includes better connecting with potential students through chat text and social networking sites.
This has meant fewer inquiries from web advertising and more from search engines from social networks and from our website.
Now the fourth aspect of the plan is driving growth through new programs and new locations.
Some examples.
At DeVry University we've just begun offering a new bachelors degree program in healthcare administration and we have a new Masters in Education.
A new Masters in Public Health and a bachelors in accounting are on track to begin soon.
We already have an accounting major in our business program and we've enjoyed synergies between DeVry University undergraduate Keller Graduate School and Becker Professional Education.
So this new dedicated accounting degree builds on that success.
At Chamberlain we're planning to add 3 new locations in calender 2012 and we recently received approval from the Illinois Board of Higher Education for a Master of Science specialty track in Nursing Healthcare Policy.
At Carrington we're adding new associate degree programs in business and accounting in the coming months.
We're building on the healthcare allied health and associated programs at Carrington.
Also part of the plan is to grow Carrington online which has a lot of upside opportunity.
We recently opened our first Carrington campus in Texas in the Dallas Metro area.
DeVry Brasil also continues to add campuses.
The expansion of the Ruy Barbosa campus in Salvador is on track as well as the launch of its new campus in Sao Luis.
We've submitted applications to offer online degree programs to students in Brazil.
So pending this approval we'll be offering online courses in areas such as engineering business administration and information technology.
So we're very excited about the opportunities that exist for us in Brazil.
These new programs and new locations are targeted investments that we believe are strong uses of investment capital.
And then the fifth part of our plan is building on our team our already strong team.
We're excited to welcome Tim Wiggins to the CFO position and you'll hear from him in just a minute.
We're also very happy that Dr.
Elaine Watson will join the team as Dean of Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine next month.
And we continue to invest in our people even while our results are down.
We'll support them with professional development training and the resources to succeed.
I'm confident in our plan and I'm confident in DeVry's people to carry out the plan.
Now let me briefly comment on what's happening on the regulatory landscape.
The good news from our perspective is that last year's rule making process is over and we know what the rules are.
One of the positive outcomes from the last couple of years is that many more policymakers now know the vital role that private sector education plays in meeting our educational needs.
They realize that there are high-quality providers in the private sector but these institutions should be supported.
There's also an increased recognition that the same rule should be applied across all institutions: public sector private sector and independent.
DeVry was recently asked to have a representative on a new Department of Education rule-making panel that's going to discuss student financial aid.
As we've done many times in the past we're pleased to have a seat at the table.
We greatly appreciate that DeVry's views are sought out and valued.
Even though our primary focus is inward right now on executing our performance improvement plan we do continue to have conversations with policymakers like the roundtable discussion that we had with Senator Harkin to discuss a new policy framework for higher education oversight.
We've put forward a concept applicable to all colleges and universities that's based on 2 pillars: metrics of accountability; and standards of best practice.
So those are the 2 pillars metrics and standards.
Now you may have seen that Senator Durbin held an event this week and introduced legislation to modify the 90/10 provisions.
The senator's proposal while maybe well intentioned misses the mark.
It doesn't advance reform and accountability and would limit -- it would limit veterans' and others' access to education.
So we'll continue to work with Senator Durbin and others in an effort to advance meaningful reform based on student outcomes.
So thank you for listening to that overview.
Appreciate the opportunity to share that.
With that I'd like to introduce Tim Wiggins.
After a very thorough and inclusive search we're confident that we found the best person to serve as our new CFO.
Tim comes to us with a tremendous amount of experience having been a CFO in multiple industries and he has a passion for education.
We're very much looking forward to working with him as we execute on our performance improvement plan.
Tim over to you.
Thanks Daniel.
I'm delighted to be part of the DeVry team.
Let me start by saying I look forward to meeting many of you on today's call in person.
You'll be hearing more from Joan on that in the coming months.
Let me tell you why I chose DeVry.
A number of the reasons I suspect are very familiar to all of you: leadership; reputation; quality institutions and management.
DeVry is well known for high-quality education in the space it serves an important unmet and growing social need the educator nation's workforce.
Plus I can tell you that DeVry has a sterling reputation in Chicago communities and has posted some pretty impressive results for a number of years.
I really like the organization's position and diversified educational offerings.
It's not often that you get a chance to join a leader in a dynamic industry that plays such an important role in our society.
What's truly unique is when that opportunity also intersects with a personal passion education.
Before I joined people told me great things about DeVry.
In fact I worked alongside many DeVry University graduates at Tellabs.
During my final days there a number of employees came up to me wishing me well and telling me how they had graduated from DeVry University and what a great experience it was for them.
And now I see why.
I'd like to take a few minutes this afternoon to give you my initial observations as a person new to the organization.
Clearly DeVry's facing some short-term challenges.
I could tell you without hesitation that this management team understands these challenges has good instincts and has taken decisive and proactive steps to address the issues.
On the other hand we continue to make progress towards achieving our long-term growth goals.
Ross University AUC Chamberlain Becker and DeVry Brasil are all performing well.
Continued growth will require investments to expand their offerings to meet the needs of the students they have now and in the future.
Recently we've experienced significant operational de-leveraging as our revenue growth has abated.
In addressing the underlying issues we have the opportunity to re-position the organization at a lower cost point.
So when growth returns we will be even better positioned for significant positive operating leverage.
During my career I found there's no better time to implement operational and financial improvements.
At the same time it's imperative that we strategically allocate capital in areas where we can achieve a good return on investment.
And if we execute properly we'll come through this period even stronger than when we entered it.
Before I conclude I'd like to thank Rick Gunst who's been a tremendous help to me in my initial transition.
He's leaving quite a legacy at DeVry and I wish him well as he enjoys his retirement.
So to wrap it up let me just say that I'm very confident this team will overcome the near-term challenges that we face and I'm encouraged by our prospects for long-term growth.
Again I look forward to meeting you soon.
Now I'll turn it over to Rick and Pat for the financial highlights.
Okay thanks Tim.
And good afternoon everyone.
Our second quarter and first half results reflect the continued revenue deceleration and resulting impact on earnings.
Second quarter revenue of $524 million was down 5% versus prior year and down about 3% through the first half of the year.
The acquisitions of AUC and ATC International contributed about 300 basis points of revenue growth in the quarter and about 240 basis points for the first half of the year.
Reported net income of $9 million in the quarter compared to $89 million last year and earnings per share of $0.13 was down versus $1.25 last year.
Results for the second quarter fiscal 2012 were impacted substantially by 2 discrete items.
First a goodwill and an intangible asset impairment charge of $55.8 million after-tax for Carrington; and second a $2.2 million after-tax gain related to the sale of Becker's Stalla CFA review operations.
During the first half of fiscal 2012 enrollment challenges have continued at Carrington stemming from the prolonged economic downturn transition issues from the Carrington name change and recent regulatory changes.
This resulted in a lower estimate fair value for the institution.
And accordingly DeVry recorded an impairment charge of $75 million pretax and about $56 million after-tax or about $0.82 per share in the quarter.
Excluding these 2 discrete items net income of $62 million in the quarter was down 30% versus prior year and earnings per share of $0.92 down 26%.
A reconciliation of these earnings results is included in the financial section of today's release.
These results reflect the slowdown of topline growth driven by lower enrollments within DeVry University and Carrington reported in December and a resulting margin pressure.
Our overall effective tax rate and income from operations was 29.1% in the quarter and 28.5% year-to-date as compared to 33.1% for the full year fiscal 2011.
The tax rate on continuing operations was quite a bit lower compared to last year due to mix of domestic-source income stemming from earnings declines at DeVry University and Carrington combined with earnings growth at DeVry Brasil and the addition of AUC.
We expect that our effective tax rate on income from operations for fiscal year 2012 will be relatively consistent with the year-to-date number and around in the 29% range.
The tax benefit associated with the impairment charge at Carrington is not comparable to our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations because of the impact of non-deductible acquisition goodwill at Carrington.
As a result the tax benefit from the impairment charge carries an effective tax rate of only 25.7%.
Cost of educational services increased by about 5% versus prior year in the quarter and first half.
About 340 basis points of this growth in the second quarter and 260 basis points of growth in the first half were driven by the AUC and ATC acquisitions.
Our focus in matching our costs with revenues new locations over the past year within Chamberlain and DeVry University were the main drivers of the year-over-year increase.
Student services and administrative expense was up 4% for the quarter and about 7% for the first half versus prior year.
More than half of this increase in the quarter was driven again by expenses from the addition of AUC and ATC which were not part of our organization last year.
The remainder of the increase in the quarter was for incremental inquiry generation and new locations supported at Chamberlain and from the impact of inflation changed management activities and the flow-through of hiring from prior year.
We continue to prudently deploy resources to improve academic quality and enhance student services while at the same time reduce expenses where revenues are not consistent with the cost structure on a location-by-location basis.
We've eliminated or deferred hiring cut discretionary spending and continue to aggressively pursue other short- and longer-term cost initiatives.
We will continue to pursue efficiency and effectiveness initiatives to improve our results while still allocating capital for future growth where warranted.
So with that overview let's now shift to the Operating segment results which are further detailed in the release.
Starting with Business Technology and Management segment revenue was down about 12% versus prior year in the quarter and a little more than 8% year-to-date.
The revenue decline has been principally driven by the 12.8% decline in fall total undergraduate enrollment reported last month.
In addition revenue per student was impacted primarily by increased scholarships and mix along with slightly lower academic progression of students.
Weak economic conditions persistent unemployment and heightened competition continued to impact enrollment results coupled with adjustments associated with the new regulations.
We still believe the supply-demand relationship and strong value proposition of our programs will remain strong over the long term but near-term results will be impacted by the enrollment declines over the past few semesters.
Segment earnings of $57.8 million in the quarter were down 42% versus prior year driven by the enrollment and revenue declines and resulting margin compression.
Year-to-date earnings were down 35%.
We've been focusing on reducing costs where appropriate without compromising academics new program development and targeted new location expansions the benefit of which we'll see in fiscal 2012 and beyond.
Within Medical and Healthcare segments revenue was up about 8% for both the quarter and year-to-date with varying performance among the institutions.
Chamberlain College of Nursing delivered revenue growth of 24% in the quarter and about 30% year-to-date.
The growth is being driven by our on-site locations new locations in Houston and Miramar Florida with some slowdown for the RN to BSN program due to increased competition.
We continued to expand Chamberlain's geographic reach with Atlanta and Indianapolis our next expansion targets pending approvals.
DeVry Medical International which includes Ross medical and veterinary programs and AUC delivered solid revenue growth driven by the recent enrollment results.
Meanwhile Carrington results reflect the effects of the double-digit enrollment declines reported last period due to prolonged poor economic environment and hesitancy of prospective students to pursue an education at this time.
We continue to address admissions- and marketing-related opportunities along with cost and efficiency initiatives.
Earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter were down 25% versus prior year in the quarter and 21.5% year-to-date excluding the Carrington impairment charge.
Operating income growth at Chamberlain and Ross along with the addition of AUC earnings were offset by declining results at Carrington.
Finally revenue within International K-12 and Professional Education increased 16.5% in the quarter and 12% year-to-date.
Revenue growth for the quarter benefited from the strong enrollment results at DeVry Brasil accomplished primarily through sharing best practices that has occurred over the past 1.5.
years.
Revenue also grew at Becker while Advanced Academics experienced a slight decline.
Operating income for the quarter grew 51% as a result of the revenue growth and operating leverage which more than offset increased investments in new campus location costs at DeVry Brasil.
So given our enrollment results and the first half earning results it's obvious that the fiscal 2012 revenue and earnings will be below prior year levels.
As Daniel stated earlier aggressive performance improvement plans are underway to reverse the enrollment trends and mitigate the earnings decline through cost saving action plans.
So while we're not happy to report the declines in revenue and net income and we're very focused on improving our operating results it's important to keep things in perspective because these declines follow a 5-year period of above-trend growth with revenue growing about 20% per year on average and earnings growing 50% per year over this 5-year period.
Our balance sheet financial position and conservative capital structure serve us well to manage through these challenging times and still have the capacity to make prudent investments for long-term growth.
And now this is my last call with all of you.
And as I move on to the next phase of my life post DeVry it's been a great experience the past 5.5 years as CFO of this tremendous organization.
I'm very proud to have been part of this great team and contribute in various ways to help drive our strong performance results over the past few years.
I really wish I was going on a stronger note.
But as a continuing shareholder I'm confident the enrollment and earnings growth will return in the not-too-distant future given the quality of our programs people and values across DeVry.
I wish -- I will miss working with you and I wish you all the best.
And with that let me turn the call over back over to Pat for our balance sheet and financial results.
Thanks Rick.
And good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the first half of fiscal 2012 was $219 million versus $274 million last year.
This cash generation drove our cash and marketable security balance to $288 million at the end of the quarter as compared to $462 million last year.
This balance was lower due to the acquisition of AUC in August 2011 and higher share repurchase activity over the past year.
During the quarter we repurchased about 1 250 000 shares of our common stock for about $47.6 million or an average of $37.95 per share.
We completed our sixth $100 million-program right at the end of the calendar year and began executing our seventh $100 million-program.
We also continue to remain debt free.
The net accounts receivable balance was about $145 million versus $153 million last year.
This lower AR balance was a result of decreased revenues and our students' ability to pay back their accounts based on positive student outcomes as well as our teams' continued focus on student service and collections management.
The bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with year-to-date bad debt expense of 2.3% of revenue down versus 2.9% last year again an indicator of our students paying back their accounts even during these tough times and the strong value proposition of our programs.
We're proud of our teams' strong focus on receivables and cash management.
Capital spending for the first half was $63 million versus $54 million spent last year.
This spending was focused on facility improvements to better serve our students expansion at DeVry Brasil and also within Ross University AUC and Chamberlain College of Nursing so we can help meet society's needs for more doctors and nurses.
Total capital spending for the fiscal year is likely to be in the $150 million to $160 million range lower than what we told you last quarter as we carefully scrutinize the deployment of incremental capital.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
And before we open it up to your questions let me mention a few operational highlights from the quarter.
In the Medical and Healthcare segment integration of American University of the Caribbean is on track.
We're beginning to benefit from the sharing of best practices in the same way that we've done with DeVry Brasil and other acquisitions.
In International K-12 and Professional Education segment we successfully completed the sale of the Stalla CFA business which will allow Becker to place greater focus on expanding our core global accounting business into high-growth markets.
ATC International which we acquired last May has helped expand Becker into accounting products and new international markets.
And in fact recently ATC was given Gold Approved Learning Partner status by the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants which speaks to the level of quality these courses offer students and we're quite excited to receive this designation.
I'd also like to note that in keeping with our commitment to the military we've made it a priority to help them and their families pursue their educational goals.
At the suggestion of the White House Office of Public Engagement we recently partnered with the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce to offer military spouses career guidance and resume writing assistance.
In mid-January we hosted the nation's largest career forum and hiring fair that's geared specifically towards supporting U.S.
Military spouses.
So we're quite honored to do that.
And Dr.
Herman DeVry earned a citation for training the military in World War II.
So we've been proudly serving military students for 70 years.
As a wrap-up I'd like to emphasize that despite being disappointed in our near-term results the fundamental need for the educational programs we provide remains very strong.
Long term there's growing demand for education globally and a great need for increased participation from the private sector.
In the meantime we're very focused on executing on our performance improvement plan using our resources to maintain and enhance quality for our students and delivering value to our shareholders and all our stakeholders to continue to have a strong balance sheet and to generate the strong cash flow that will allow us to fund and to grow our operations to pursue targeted acquisitions that fit our strategic plan and to return value to shareholders through share repurchases and through dividends.
And in the long run we're confident that our growth and diversification strategy will continue to position DeVry well to meet the needs for skilled employees in the U.S.
and other high-growth countries around the world.
Finally let me offer my congratulations and thanks to Rick Gunst.
Rick you've been an absolute pleasure to work with and a true partner.
While most people think of CFOs as numbers people you are a CFO with a heart and a passion for our students.
I look forward to continuing to work together on educational causes like communities and schools while you're on the board.
I know everyone at DeVry will miss you.
And on behalf of them and for me personally let me say thank you for all you've done for DeVry and for our students.
And now with that Joan let's go ahead and we'll be happy to take everybody's questions.
Great.
Before we start the Q&amp;A I just like to call everyone's attention to the chart that's located at the end of today's press release which details our quarterly conference calls for the year.
You'll notice that or perhaps you'll notice that the call for fourth quarter and year-end results has changed.
It's now going to be on August 9 which is a change from what we've previously published.
So Melanie if you could please give our participants the instructions we'll begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just I wanted to ask about Rick's comment about earnings and enrollment growth will return in the not-too-distant future.
And I'm just wondering if you could help us think through how far distant future we might be looking at here.
Again I think we've been saying it's going to be a little choppy in the near term.
And it's -- so we're beginning to see some visibility some positives but it's really hard to make a call in terms of when that rate of decline will turn to a positive.
So we're -- or as Daniel said I'm encouraged that we're making good progress on our plans but not in a position to say exactly when that's going to turn.
We don't have a crystal ball on that one.
Our next question comes from the line of Trace Urdan with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping one of you gentlemen could comment a little bit more fully on the revenue per student decline maybe addressing first of all what your -- sort of what the -- describe the scholarship strategy that you have in place right now and how we should think about that going forward.
And then what would be the mix shift? And what would account for the sort of lower credits during the term than we had seen last year? Sure Trace I'll give that a shot.
And certainly if others want to jump in here Rick and Pat please do.
And so you have a number of factors.
The principal factor is scholarships and mix.
When we say mix military students and students who are at corporations and taking advantage of corporate tuition reimbursement programs to go back to school and earn a degree or go on to a Masters degree.
There's quite a lot of Keller students who fall into that category.
For some of those large employers the Verizons of the world or the IBMs of the world who we've had long relationships with we do provide a preferential tuition rate.
So nothing new there but maybe just a slight change in mix that has an impact on the revenue per student.
Yes.
And just to be clear I had said that it had a downward pressure on it.
We did have a tuition increase last July and so you would have expected to see probably a 2% to 3% per -- increase in revenue per student.
We didn't see that because of these other factors.
Research Division</strong> And do you think this pattern will continue for the remainder of the year? It could.
I don't see it as a major category but could be a bit of a dynamic there.
We're keeping an eye on it.
Our next question comes from the line of Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I know this hasn't been a huge issue for you but can you provide any insight on 2- and 3-year CDRs and kind of what we can expect in February with the draft rates? Are there any areas of concern there? Not really an area of concern.
It's something that recently watch and we're very focused on that.
But I don't have a lot of color to give you on that at this point other than to say that yes we do focus on ensuring financial literacy is one of the biggest areas that we've added resources.
And so that has been an area where there have been some costs to make sure that we are counseling students as they're coming in the door to make sure they understand their financial obligations and understand how a student -- how the student finance system works grants and loans and everything else.
And then on the back end if you will at the end of the process if they're leaving before graduation then there's counseling involved.
And then certainly for the graduates we have increased the levels of counseling to those students to make sure they understand their financial obligations.
And we think that through those efforts those are things that we can do to manage and be proactive about managing that situation.
Because there are some factors there are external factors like the economy which has led to increased cohort default rates or CDRs for colleges and universities across the land.
Whether public sector or private sector colleges they've all seen increases there with a weakening economy.
So there are some external factors but we -- we're focused on controlling the things that we can control and that's what we've done.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess just 2 questions for me.
The -- first of all you mentioned the incremental cost efforts you're taking.
But should we think of that as likely to actually lead to costs declining year-over-year in the back half of the year? Or is that just more likely to offset some of the other areas you cited which clearly sounded like proactive investment and growth of costs? Yes.
So -- and again jump in here but I'll start off with that.
We're very focused on that.
And yes so we did cite those numbers relative to our original plan for the year but we're not stopping there.
We have put in place a team who's focused on operational excellence which is something that we've been increasingly focused on not just this quarter but for sometime coming.
And that is -- has both near-term and long-term implications.
Long term we see the opportunity -- we're pretty good in terms of operational excellence.
We need to go from good to great on that one.
And that means being able to run processes more quickly roll out new initiatives with better cost and better speed and better quality for students.
So that's the long-term aspect building that capability.
And from a near-term perspective yes the team is quite focused on additional cost savings in addition to that which I just referenced.
And so examples could include using internal resources to support upgrades to our financial aid packaging software and further student financial aid communications.
That project saved us over $1.5 million as compared to before when we used outside firms.
We've done a number of -- eliminated a number of facility upgrades which some people might consider nice to have as opposed to must have.
And those have driven about $3 million in savings.
So these are just a couple of examples to give you some color kind of cost reduction measures that we've taken to result in the magnitude of savings that we're talking about and we're continuing to look at that.
And to -- and just to follow on to that Gary specifically looking on a year-over-year basis for the second of the year.
Likely that costs would be down at DeVry University where we have a large number of cost reduction measures in places as Daniel had said some benefit from the targeted reductions of force very small that we did earlier in the year to rightsize our revenue on a location-by-location basis.
But in institutions where we're growing such as Ross Chamberlain DeVry Brasil we likely will see cost increases driven by new location openings or in Ross' case additional student enrollments coming through and associated costs with that.
So net-net it'll be like slightly up in the second half of the year driven by investments in our growing institutions partially offset by savings at DeVry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the quick follow-up.
Any commentary on why nursing -- new student starts in nursing fell in the December term? I realize you've had increasingly tough comps given the incredible growth there last year.
But any comment? Yes.
And Gary yes and we've commented on it before.
Just remind everybody that was really driven by the RN to BSN program specifically.
So the pre-licensure students who are going if you will from scratch to become a nurse for the first time so getting a Bachelor of Science in Nursing.
Those continue to grow.
Our Masters of Science in Nursing program continues to grow where we had the challenge in the tough comps but also increased competition of the other factor that I would cite was in the RN to BSN that's the program for nurses who are out practicing.
They have an RN.
They're a registered nurse.
But maybe they did that on the basis of an associate degree for example.
Maybe from a community college some years ago.
Now they're working and they want to go back and get a Bachelor's degree.
And that's the program that saw some tough comps and some declines.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Daniel just expanding a little bit on your comment regarding competitive dynamic.
I'm interested in a little more color on how you things -- how you see things evolving more broadly and the extent to which more intense competitor pressures beyond nursing maybe in business technology and some of the other disciplines might be contributing to the enrollment declines? And how you see that playing out over the next couple of years and the implications for that in terms of student acquisition costs going forward? Sure Peter very strategic question something that we think about quite a lot.
So in the big picture is there more competition? Yes.
But I can remember coming here 9 years ago and getting asked that question "And is there more competition?" Yes.
So I think there's always more competition.
And I really can't think of too many industries where that's not the case.
And just because there's not -- there's more competition doesn't mean that you can't grow.
I think DeVry Brasil is experiencing quite a lot of competition and we've found ways to take some share.
It's just one example.
And I think Keller has seen that as well Keller Graduate School of Management.
A lot of people have talked about increased competition in the graduate school market both from public sector and private sector colleges.
But Keller has performed very well and I think taken some share.
So we don't view it as a given that just because there's more competition that means that you can't grow.
But it certainly does create more challenges.
And in some cases in periods of time it can be a factor like the RN to BSN that I just cited.
Student -- the cost to recruit new students is the way we like to talk about that I think some of those costs could see some upward pressure particularly this year.
It is -- every 4 years you get the presidential election and you get the Olympics.
And so there's increased advertising activity increased -- and that tends to raise advertising rates.
So that wouldn't be shocking if we saw that because we're going to be participating as a partner in the Olympic process.
So we're quite excited to we think benefit from that attention.
But I think that to the extent that that's a factor I wouldn't put that in the -- sort of the major factor category.
So I think it could be a factor but I'd put it there.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On new enrollment for DeVry undergrad in Carrington the comps do get easier as we go into the spring quarter.
And we have -- so it looks like you're seeing some stabilization in the year-on-year declines for those 2 divisions over the last sort of 2 terms or semesters.
Do you think that the sort of year-on-year trends get a little bit better from here or at least don't get worse? Yes I think that's not a bad way to think about things.
We have -- here's the way I would put it.
We are seeing some early indicators.
We are seeing that slowing rate of decline that you talked about.
For example Carrington College inquiries this year in the early part of Q3 are improved.
But it's also possible that we could bump along the bottom for a while.
So we just feel that it's just a little too early to call the churn.
We have a good plan in place.
I feel good about the people we have executing that plan seeing some of those indicators.
But notwithstanding just being conservative I wouldn't stand here and start waving flags to call the churn.
Research Division</strong> And you've -- have you seen monthly improvements in enrollment counselor productivity? Is that -- or are we past the worst there? There we continue to work on that.
We -- and I think we entered that later than some others.
Some others even as much as a year before July 1 put in place new performance management systems.
We chose not to do that.
We wanted to wait and see what the final rules were.
We took the time to put in place what we think are some very very responsible risk management safeguards to be prudent and did some piloting of that.
And so maybe the price we paid for that was to then fully roll out at July 1 rather than some others who entered it earlier.
So that's the bad news is that maybe we're a cycle behind some of the others.
And we recognize that and that's a fair criticism if anybody wants to give me a bop on the head for that.
But the good news on that is that we think we did it in a very very high-quality way and a very conservative way with risk management very much in mind.
And yes we think we're working through that transition.
It's an important transition.
We take it very seriously.
And as a senior management team we're all very invested in that.
I'm personally invested in working with our team to find better ways and pursue our value of continuous improvement.
And we do think that as we work through that that our teams will get more comfortable with the performance management systems and that our performance will improve.
So I hope that's helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I think I heard in your prepared remarks a comment about slightly lower academic progression and I was hoping you could expand on that.
And then also given the I think mentioned increase in scholarships and discounts are you seeing a big increase in the number or percentage of your students that are coming via corporate partnerships? So let me take it in order.
In terms of the academic progression standards it's not a major change Sara.
It's just part of continuous improvement.
Like all universities we're always looking to strike a balance between access and student outcomes.
So we took a look at that and monitored our academic progression standards at DeVry University undergraduates specifically and tightened those up a bit.
So it's not a major factor.
The bigger factor there in revenue per student was the mix and the scholarships the mix of corporate partnerships and military students and so forth.
That was the major factor.
In terms of an increased participation or corporate partnerships yes we certainly hope and expect to see that because we've put resources into beefing up our corporate outreach activity.
We call that the Keller Center for Corporate Learning KCCL.
And we have really strengthened our team there.
And we have had great partnerships with the Intels and IBMs GEs Verizon Wireless Accentures of the world and are putting more effort into that.
And I would expect to see more students coming from those kinds of partnerships.
Our next question comes from the line of Kelly Flynn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple ones unrelated to DeVry University.
First of all on the International K12 Professional division the growth there accelerated.
I think the year-over-year growth was 16.5% versus more like 7% last quarter.
I know there are a number of things going on there.
But high level should we model a similar growth rate in the second half? And I guess another way to say it is should we expect a typical strong seasonality in the second half for that business? Sure Kelly.
Good question.
What really drove a lot of the growth that we saw in the second quarter in terms of an acceleration in the growth rate was the really strong enrollment results at DeVry Brasil.
It's lapping year-over-year comparisons.
And then Becker in particular had a very strong quarter.
Part of that we changed the schedule at Becker and had a much larger number of classes that we taught in December than we have in the past.
So that may accelerate some revenue that we would normally get those students in this coming quarter ended March 31 into the second quarter.
So I wouldn't necessarily model that same trajectory going forward.
But we still continue to expect some pretty robust growth out of that segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just a related question on the margin for that business.
And this is sort of key because of the diversification point you guys make.
It was down 500 basis points year-over-year in the first quarter and then up 500 basis points in the second quarter.
So just based on the recent trend it's hard to know how to model that going forward.
Could you just give us a little help on the basis points of margin expansion in second half? Sure.
Really for this segment the year-over-year comparisons I think are more relevant than sequential.
At DeVry Brasil they do not teach classes in the first month of the quarter so the month of July.
So from a U.S.
GAAP perspective we have no revenue recognition.
Basically the same thing with Advanced Academics where the traditional high school year starts in September.
So in your first quarter of our fiscal year 2 of our educational institutions there have only 2 months of revenue as compared to the third -- or the second quarter of this year where we'd have a full 3 months of revenue.
Research Division</strong> But on a year-over-year basis I mean it -- I was looking at year-over-year and it's still difficult to see a trend.
I mean basically should be model a similar year-over-year improvement in the second half to what we saw in the second quarter which is something like 500 basis points? I think it might be a little aggressive.
Year-over-year we saw some very impressive leverage from DeVry Brasil with the flow-through of the strong -- benefiting from the strong enrollment growth.
We will be making some investments at DeVry Brasil in the second half of the year as it relates to various program rollouts and other expansion initiatives that may have a -- will have a depressing impact on that margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on Medical and Healthcare similar question about margin.
Should we assume similar declines in the second half to what we've seen so far this year? Kelly it's Rick.
I mean that one's a lot tougher just given the mix of institutions there because you have Chamberlain and Ross and AUC that are performing nicely and showing improvements and that's being offset by the deteriorating results at Carrington which actually went from an income last year to an operating loss in this last quarter.
So the pace of the recovery at Carrington and the turnaround at Carrington is -- will be a large determinant in terms of how that -- quickly that margin rebounds.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Can I just throw in another one quick to Daniel? I think Paul asked about what you're seeing for new student enrollments for DeVry University.
And I think you said kind of bouncing along the bottom not calling kind of an inflection point yet.
But in answering that you referenced Carrington so I just want to make sure that a comment about kind of bouncing along the bottom applies to DeVry University as well.
And yes I think you could apply that to both.
The other thing by the way on your seasonality question really which Patrick I think really addressed just one other little piece of color is Becker -- for those who've been following us for a long time Becker used to be a little more seasonal than it is a year today.
And so it's just -- it's quite a bit more balanced across the 2 halves of the year than it used to be.
Our next question comes from the line of Corey Glen -- I'm sorry Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the cost question.
And Daniel in your prepared remarks I think you mentioned that you're targeting $80 million in cost savings relative to your original plan.
Two questions.
Can you give us a ballpark estimate of how much of that $80 million annualized you had achieved in Q2? And secondly I think in answering Gary's question you gave some examples.
But if you add those up it's quite a ways off of the $80 million.
So I was hoping you might be able to give us a little bit more color on what bridges the gap to get to that larger number.
Yes.
So -- and Patrick may want to dive in here as well.
I would say about half of it is deferred hiring and targeted reductions in force.
So that's a much bigger category.
And then I gave some other examples just to give you some color.
And I would say it's about half and half first half of the year and second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you had about a $40 million run rate exiting the first half? Yes.
About $40 million and $40 million yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then in a similar note this isn't bopping you over the head but the comment in the press release about being disappointed.
I think you're referring not just to the enrollment results but also kind of operationally.
But can you elaborate a little bit on that specifically what internally it is that you found disappointing? I think it's what we're mainly talking about here Corey is that our enrollments are down at DeVry University undergraduate and at Carrington.
And we're as I know you are impatient and we'd like to see a quicker improvement in that performance.
Particularly Carrington which really is in full turnaround mode.
And we have a strong 5-point turnaround plan in place -- we have a strong leadership team.
We've made a number of changes there.
We have a new head of Carrington Colleges Group we have a new head of Carrington Colleges which is outside California.
We have a new VP of marketing there we have a new head of finance who's really by the way a boomerang some of the workforce in the past come back to help us out.
So it's largely quite a bit of a new team and a strong plan.
And so I'm very confident that we've got the right plan and the right team.
I'm disappointed that it's not happening a little bit faster.
But life is long and we're here.
And our -- the fundamental need for what we do is strong.
And so that's the part that gives me continued confidence that we will continue to do well.
And the other piece is our diversification helps us out.
So that's the part that's going well.
But those are the parts that I meant when I said we're disappointed.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff for Andrew.
I wanted to follow up on Corey's question on cost savings and just kind of look at it from the 2 expense line items.
when I look at student services it seems the number came down sequentially.
Generally it goes up.
Is this the line where most of the cost savings are? And how should we think about it in -- for the second half? Well I think no it's not where all the cost -- it's really across all expense areas.
I mean we're looking under every stone here Jeff.
So I appreciate your question and it's a good opportunity to emphasize that there are opportunities in both.
You have to match -- we're going to we are matching our resources to our student enrollments.
And so -- and it's also other volume-driven things.
In fact even beyond the 80 there's other things that are volume driven which we didn't even count.
For example you have fewer students so we spend less on textbooks.
Obviously that's there.
And those come naturally so we didn't talk about that or tried to take credit for those kinds of cost savings if you will.
But no it's across the board.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it'll be coming back to more of a normal seasonality in the second half of the -- specifically the student services line? I think Patrick gave us some color on that before.
Yes I think in terms of seasonality we'll follow our normal trends but we're looking for cost savings as Daniel said in all line items.
But...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
Be careful of the seasonality too because compared to our past we've got different pieces in the puzzle here now such as AUC.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And let me just ask you a quick one on tuition increases.
Sort of given the President's comments lately and possibly increased price sensitivity from students.
How do -- how should we think about them going forward? And yes we do expect to raise tuition at varying levels across our institutions.
There are some where we may take a pause.
But broadly speaking we do expect to see that likely at the lower end of historical ranges.
And one thing I would point out just as an example one that I have at hand is DeVry University.
DeVry University undergraduate tuition is in the lowest third of 4-year private sector and independent colleges.
So we are very mindful of the President's comments.
And even before the President brought that up Tuesday night we've been looking at ways in which we can -- that's part of this operational excellence.
And that's why we've been thinking about working on that even before this more recent downturn in our results just a knee-jerk reaction to that we've seen that trend.
And we need to do a better job of being efficient in the way we operate so that we can continue to grow and meet our objectives here even if there is an environment of lower tuition increases than in the past.
And that's not a foregone conclusion but we certainly want to be prepared for that.
And then if it's better than that then that'd be upside.
I think what many people are referring to and I -- whether the President was referring to this specifically or not I don't know but when many people talk about the high rate of tuition increase along those lines they're usually referring to the public sector or the state schools which of course is over -- well over well 70% of all college students.
So it's by far the bulk and the lion's share.
And last year according to the College Board collectively they raised tuition about 8.2% 8.3%.
And I think we raised -- DeVry University undergraduate to stick with that example I think it was 2.8% and 2.9%.
So that's what I mean.
So the rate of increase that we have is probably lower.
And in fact it's allowing the state schools to sort of catch up.
We used to be -- I always used to say "Well think of it as we're here in Illinois." So we're more than the in-state tuition of University of Illinois because we don't have that tax subsidy that they have but we're far less than the out-of-state tuition for University of Illinois.
We're more efficient and there's other factors.
Well now they've increased some -- we're -- it's almost a parity.
The in-state tuition of University of Illinois and DeVry University of Illinois are very close to each other today.
And that's quite different from what it was even 5 6 years ago.
So that's some of the dynamics that we're seeing in tuition.
I probably went a little beyond what you're asking but I wanted to give you some color here on tuition dynamics.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Condra with BMO Capital.
I just wanted to ask about the online opportunity in Brazil.
How developed is that? Or is there much competition? Do your students have access to computers? I just wondered if you could talk about that and just kind of give your vision there.
Sure.
And I'll try to be a little quicker here because I know we're -- I want to get all the questions we can.
Online think of online a little bit differently in Brazil.
It's really more of a hybrid or mix-and-match that we always talk about here.
And so it's not 100% online.
There's for the foreseeable future going to be an on-site component as well.
But it does enable us to expand our geographic footprint more quickly and a little bit more nimbly.
We're quite excited about that.
Very early days but a nice medium-term long-term opportunity for us in Brazil.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Wahlstrom with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Following up I guess on online.
Could you provide a little bit of an update on general enrollment trends that you're seeing online versus in-campus and performance? Maybe some of the trends in markets where you have a physical campus presence versus your ability to attract and retain students and what's become more a virtual environment as well? Okay.
So I think the big trend there the mega trend is toward best of both Peter.
In other words the best of online and on-site studies and online and on-site student services.
Even things that maybe as mundane as "Hey you can buy your book online come to the bookstore and return it." Or go to a physical graduation ceremony even though you went to -- you did your studies online.
And we think that scenario strategically we're very well positioned particularly at DeVry University with a coast-to-coast physical footprint and a very strong and high-quality online capability as well.
And we think that the ability to cater to that very clear need and desire that we see from students for that mix-and-match and to be able to do that very flexibly and to do that coast-to-coast and be able to tell the world about it or market it in national media which is something you can't do if you're a regional prayer or an online-only competitor we think is long term speaks to a very strong strategic positioning that we enjoy and we want to continue to build on.
I would say that's the biggest mega trend with online.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then quickly are you still currently on track to open roughly 10 campuses this year given the updated capital plan capital spending plan? I think we've said 8 to 10 and I think we'd be probably a little bit towards the lower end of that range.
If we can do more then we will.
But I think we're a little bit more conservative.
We're taking a very disciplined look at that in light of this whole performance improvement plan.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I'll make this quick as well.
Guys how different do you think the curriculum mix at Carrington and DVU will look in like another couple of academic years from now? Are you making major changes in the direction of those institutions? Or are you going to kind of keep what you've got and just hope that the economy starts to come more in line with the kind of consumer confidence perspective view that you've had? Yes.
Certainly the last part of it is not the plan.
Just hope that things come back.
That is hope is not a strategy and we understand that.
Even though there are external factors at play here we're the master of our fate.
We firmly believe that.
And so some of the strategies that we're taking programmatically which was the core of your question will change the character of Carrington College a little bit more than I would say DeVry University.
DeVry University though and Carrington College and our other schools as well collectively we are adding resources and have added resources to speed up our new program development process that is a part of our strategy.
It's not mega resources so I don't think that's going to be a major thing to model in your cost structure in your model.
But it does -- it is a very leveraged way for us to add growth opportunities.
What I'm saying is with Carrington because we were so heavily -- have been so heavily focused on allied health and ancillary care programs medical systems respiratory care and so forth in nursing by adding business programs accounting technology programs network those kinds of things that would make Carrington look a little bit more different than DeVry University might look.
And by the way we used to have more of those in the past so it's not a complete change for Carrington.
It's something that we're familiar with doing.
So we're quite confident that we can pull that off successfully.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up on the student recruitment process.
Just to be clear are you guys done with the major changes that you're planning to make and you're just kind of waiting for people to get used to the new systems and processes and expect improvement from there? Or are you still in the process of implementing the changes and maybe you still have people that are normally on the frontlines that are pulled up for training? And then secondly in terms of the third-party aggregators that you guys were using and I know you guys turned some off because they weren't able to demonstrate that they were up to the DeVry standards a couple of quarters ago how much of an impact do you think that that had? And how many of them have you brought back into the fold at this point? On the second part I would say that has more of an impact in the first half of the year.
And we're -- we've worked our way through most of that so I don't think that has a major impact.
And then on the changes that we've made yes we've implemented those.
I would say that we still have quite a bit of training to do.
And but I wouldn't -- I would say we're going to make adjustments.
We're going to continue to perform our continuous improvement which is one of our values one of our TEACH values.
But yes we have implemented the system itself.
And so I'd say we're sort of in the middle of the 2 ends of the spectrum that you painted in your question.
And I know we went about 10 minutes over.
We tried to squeeze in as many questions as we could.
I'm sorry if I got a little verbose at times and if your question wasn't answered.
But please let us know and we'll do our best to provide that color for you.
I would like to thank everyone for your questions and remind you that our next quarterly results call is scheduled for April 24 when we announce third quarter results for that period.
And thank you very much for all your questions and thank you for your continued support of DeVry.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That does conclude the presentation.
You may disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to DeVry's Fiscal 2012 Third Quarter Conference Call.
My name is Jeremy and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Jeremy.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor language.
This call may contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such statements.
Please consult our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
On today's call we'll highlight certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Further information about these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP can be found in our results release which is available as an exhibit to our Form 8-K dated April 24 2012.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until May 1 2012.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for more information.
I'll now turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today in our fiscal 2012 third quarter results call.
I'll begin with an overview of the quarter followed by Tim and Pat who will walk through the financial results and I'll wrap it up with our perspective for the long-term.
And we continue to navigate through a challenging environment but it's an environment we're increasingly familiar with and understand.
We're not satisfied with the results this quarter.
They don't yet fully reflect our sense of urgency.
This is not business as usual.
We know strong efforts and changes are required for us to get where we want to go.
And while we see progress that reinforces our confidence that we are on the right path we also recognize that we've got a lot of work to do.
It is going to take some time to reflect in our results.
So on my upfront summary let me cover the actions we have taken and are taking on our performance improvement plan where we see opportunities to make targeted investments to drive growth the outlook over our 5-year planning horizon and our approach to capital allocation.
So here's an update on our 5-point performance improvement plan.
First off we've made progress in more closely aligning our costs with enrollment levels.
We have a task force of internal and external people working on this and they've been doing a good job.
Over the last 12 months we've reduced our workforce generating about $25 million in annual savings with the vast majority of those reductions coming from DeVry University and Carrington.
We've now identified an additional $50 million of cost savings from our fiscal 2012 full year cost base again the majority of which is focused at DeVry University and Carrington.
We're finding savings through reducing variable costs centralizing processes and by reengineering processes for example using new technology.
We've also identified revenue enhancement ideas.
This is about value creation not just cost reduction.
I'll ask Tim to discuss our initiatives on point one of the plan in a little bit more detail.
The second point of our performance improvement plan is enhancing the effectiveness of our recruiting efforts.
Last month we held additional training for DeVry University admissions and revisions to their performance management system.
These revisions were driven by carefully listening to our teams and learning what's worked well and what could be improved.
As a result we believe our revision advisors and their managers are beginning to feel a little more comfortable with the new system and over time these efforts should begin to have a positive effect on enrollment trends.
We're also working on new technologies to enhance the student enrollment process and further strengthening our outreach to corporations and to community colleges as part of the recruiting process.
The third point of the plan is to improve awareness building and marketing.
At the tactical level of efficiency and effectiveness we're cultivating higher-quality student inquiries through organic sources like an improved website and search optimization.
We're focused on all forms of digital in a big way including mobile social and so on.
And at the strategic level we're building on DeVry's strong brand as a means of driving long-term growth and differentiation.
DeVry's partnership with the U.S.
Olympic Committee is an excellent example of enhancing our brand.
The USOC selected DeVry as an official education provider to Team U.S.A.
We're very proud of this partnership.
We have 40 students athletes already enrolled in DeVry University.
You may have seen a new series of Olympic-themed advertisements which will be bringing additional awareness to the flexible delivery option and the student support services that we offer to our DeVry family of institutions.
This relationship and this campaign are perfectly aligned with DeVry University's message to students: Let nothing stand in your way.
We've provided a link to one of the ads in the press release you can see it.
Fourth we're making targeted investments that are laying the foundation for future growth.
During this quarter DeVry Brasil acquired Faculdade Boa Viagem which further expands our presence in the fast-growing region of Northeast Brazil.
FBV currently serves about 5 800 students and offers both undergraduate and graduate degree programs including business law engineering information technology and that's at 3 campuses.
FBV provides excellent academic quality to students and is one of the top-ranked colleges in this city of Recife.
We now have over 21 000 students in 3 cities and 6 campuses in Brazil.
We're driving significant synergies and adding value by transferring best practices in academics admissions and student services.
We're very excited about the growth opportunities in Brazil both organic and through acquisition.
Becker recently acquired Falcon Physician Reviews which  leverages Becker's expertise in exam preparation as well as the healthcare expertise within the DeVry's family of institutions.
Falcon establishes a platform to expand further into the healthcare education market through additional offerings.
And we plan to leverage our international partnerships to expand this platform into new countries.
This is all a part of Becker's strategy of expanding into new vertical markets surrounding each one with a full complement of executive education and exam review services.
We intend to pursue a strategy in healthcare that's analogous to what we've done in accounting where students can move from DeVry University undergraduate to Keller Graduate School and on to Becker CPA Review saving them time and money.
A very strong and differentiated value proposition for students and very successful in accounting and to do it in healthcare.
Further we're targeting growth investments in new high-demand programs and in new locations.
New programs include adding bachelor's and master's level degrees in areas like accounting healthcare administration public policy.
New campuses include Chamberlain locations in Houston and Atlanta.
We're seeing strong demand for nursing.
In fact Atlanta set a record for new campus inquiries.
We're on target to open 2 new campuses in January.
We'd like to provide more information for you on the economics of new campuses and how that's impacting our cost structure.
I'm  going to ask Tim to do that in a minute.
We often say that we're investing in quality and I want to share a specific example that illustrates what we mean.
New graduate nursing residency programs in hospitals are highly competitive.
While in St.
Louis Chamberlain graduates failed 33% of the residency positions within one our partner hospitals.
The major hospital system in Columbus Chamberlain grads filled 38% available slots.
And at a Chicago health system 50% of the nurse residency positions were filled by Chamberlain graduates.
So when we say we're investing in academic quality the return on that investment is qualified graduates.
And lastly the fifth element of our plan is continuing to invest in our people in both good times and bad.
This week we're holding our Annual DeVry University Faculty Symposium.
This is a forum for faculty professional development which helps us improve the effectiveness of our curriculum and our teaching methods.
Investing in our people we also improve academic quality and service to our students.
That's a brief update on how we're managing to our performance improvement plan both to enhance our near-term results and at the same time to make targeted investments to drive future growth.
We're confident we'll be leaner and more efficient and emerge on the other side of this sector-wide downturn in a better position.
The plan addresses a most pervasive trend that we're seeing and that frankly all of higher education in the U.S.
are seeing that potential students remain very cautious when it comes to making the investment for time money and personal risk that's involved in the commitment of going to college or going back to college.
Now of course the potential silver lining in this trend is that there remains demand for higher education and that once conditions improve and potential students feel more comfortable making that commitment or our DeVry family of institutions is well positioned to meet that pent-up demand.
We believe the challenges we're facing are a short-term dislocation in an otherwise long-term trend of demand for career-focused education so what's the outlook longer-term? We've recently updated our 5-year strategic plan for fiscal 2012 through 2016.
And we view DeVry's performance in 3 phases because if you look at DeVry's performance in the last 5-year period that was the performance phase.
Organization was operating on all cylinders averaging 20% revenue growth and 50% earnings growth each year.
We were enjoying the benefits of strong enrollments and exceptional operating leverage.
Second phase is fiscal 2012 and 2013 what we call the transition phase.
Revenues of course are down this year and will probably be flat to slightly down next year.
As everyone knows given the lag effect earnings will be down even if our revenues are flat.
But this challenge also presents an opportunity.
And this management team is energized and looking at our operations driving productivity improvements making the proper adjustments to transition the organization to the next phase.
We think fiscal 2014 through 2016 will be the recovery in growth phase.
Assuming modest enrollment growth at DeVry University the recovery of enrollment to 2011 levels at Carrington and that our others institutions maintain their growth momentum in that period.
So this phase will be in a strong position to benefit from operating leverage and to reap the benefits of the investments that we're making in quality and growth.
So as we look at this planning horizon even though we aren't seeing growth in fiscal '12 and '13 we anticipate a very attractive growth in earnings profile in the fiscal '14 through '16 period.
I hope that gives a little insight into how we as a management team and as a board are thinking about the outlook.
Before I turn it over to Tim I'd like to briefly describe our approach to capital allocation to drive long-term value.
We have 3 priorities here.
Our first priority is to deploy capital to strengthen and to grow our core U.S.
post-secondary operations.
Because investments in academic quality and service excellence like our Student Central initiative has very high returns in learning and on investment.
New programs and new locations also have high rates of return so that's in this priority category as well.
These are time-tested uses of investment capital with very -- with relatively low execution risk.
The second priority for the use of investment capital is diversifying beyond the core.
Diversification drives growth it mitigates risk and it helps us attract and develop talent across DeVry.
And our third priority for capital allocation is to create long-term value for our fellow owners through dividends and share repurchases.
Let me comment a little further on how that second priority diversification adds value for DeVry.
The core university offerings have strong positions in good long-term growth prospects.
At the same time there are other parts of the educational spectrum with even higher rates of growth such as Brazil.
DeVry Brasil is growing at 16% a year.
And as we move into these new areas we share best practices across our institutions that create value.
This has worked very well in driving growth at DeVry Brasil as well as sharing the DeVry brand itself very effective.
The diversification also mitigates risk.
As an example at the beginning of the century we were very heavily concentrated on technology programs.
So when we experienced a cyclical downturn within the technology sector that really demonstrated the value of creating a diversified group of institutions.
So now we've gone from 70% technology enrollments back then to a much more balanced array of technology business healthcare and other program areas.
And then third diversification helps us to attract retain and develop DeVry's talent by offering a broader range of career opportunities to our people and in what is a people-based endeavor.
This is invaluable.
So with that overview I'd like to turn it over to Tim for a further discussion of our financial results.
Tim? Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our third quarter and fiscal year-to-date results reflect the continued revenue deceleration at DeVry University and Carrington and the resulting impact on earnings.
Third quarter revenue of $541 million was down 4% versus prior year and down about 3% year-to-date.
The acquisitions of AUC ATC International and FBV contributed about 3.1% of revenue growth in the quarter and about 2.6% during the first 9 months.
Net income of $67 million in the quarter declined 28% compared to $93 million last year and the earnings per share of $1 was down 24% versus $1.32 last year.
Our overall effective tax rate on income from operations was 29.1% in the quarter and 28.7% year-to-date as compared to 33.1% for the full year of fiscal 2011.
The tax rate on continuing operations was quite a bit lower compared to last year due to the mix of income sources stemming from earnings declines at DeVry University and Carrington combined with earnings growth at DeVry Brasil and the addition of AUC.
We expect that our effective tax rate on income from operations for fiscal year 2012 will be relatively consistent with the year-to-date number in the 29% range.
Turning to our cost for the quarter and year-to-date cost of educational services increased about 5% versus prior year in the quarter and year-to-date.
Taking into account acquisitions and the expansion of Chamberlain.
About 3.8% of this growth came from acquisitions another 1.2% was a result of expenses to support new campus expansion at Chamberlain over the past year.
We saw a similar trend in student services and administrative expense which was up 4% for the quarter and 6% for the first 9 months.
The addition of AUC ATC and FBV caused expenses to increase 2.4% in the quarter and 2.1% year-to-date.
We have eliminated positions cut discretionary spending and continue to aggressively pursue other short- and longer-term cost-saving initiatives.
We will continue to pursue efficiency and effectiveness initiatives to improve our results while still allocating capital for future growth where warranted.
Over the past 12 months we've reduced our workforce about 4% generating about $25 million in the annual savings.
As Daniel mentioned earlier we have identified an additional $50 million of cost savings from our fiscal 2012 full year cost base.
We expect to realize the full amount of these  savings in fiscal 2013.
These savings are primarily targeted at DeVry University and Carrington our institutions experiencing enrollment declines and at the home office.
On a year-to-date basis overall cost at DeVry University and Carrington were down.
In the fourth quarter we anticipate cost for DeVry University and Carrington to fall sequentially and be lower year-over-year as we begin to realize the impact of these cost reductions.
With that overview let's shift to our operating segment results which are further detailed in our release.
Starting with the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was down about 10% versus prior year in the quarter and 9% year-to-date.
The revenue decline has been principally driven by declines in total undergraduate enrollments.
Enrollments continue to be impacted by weak economic conditions persistent unemployment and the resulting hesitation on the part of some students to enroll in college coupled with adjustments associated with new regulations.
We still believe the supply-demand relationship and value proposition of our programs remain strong over the long term but near-term results will be impacted by the enrollment declines of the past few semesters.
We certainly wouldn't assume that the current negative enrollment growth trend goes on indefinitely but we don't anticipate a turnaround at least through the fall.
Segment earnings of $64.7 million in the quarter were down 35% versus prior year driven by the enrollment and revenue declines and resulting margin compression.
Year-to-date earnings were down 35%.
Cost of educational services and student services and administrative expense were down year-over-year.
We've been focused on reducing cost without compromising academics compliance new program development and targeted new location expansions.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up about 13% for the quarter and up 9.5% year-to-date with varying performance among the institutions.
Chamberlain College of Nursing delivered revenue growth of 27% in the quarter and about 29% year-to-date.
The growth is being driven by new locations in Houston; Miramar Florida; and Indianapolis which just opened in March of 2012.
This is partially offset by a slowdown for the online RN to BSN program due to increased competition.
We continue to expand Chamberlain's geographic reach with Atlanta opening in May and Cleveland and Tinley Park as our next expansion targets pending approvals.
DeVry Medical International which includes Ross Medical and veterinary programs and AUC delivered solid revenue growth of 31% year-to-date largely driven by the acquisition of AUC.
Meanwhile Carrington results reflect the effects of double-digit enrollment declines reported last period.
Earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter were down 11% versus prior year in the quarter and 18% year-to-date excluding the Carrington impairment charge from the second quarter.
Operating income growth at Chamberlain and Ross along with the addition of AUC earnings more than offset an operating loss at Carrington.
Within this segment we have 5 distinct institutions that serve different student populations and are performing at different levels.
So I thought it might be helpful to give you some additional color on the revenue contribution and margin performance for each of these institutions.
At DeVry Medical International which includes Ross University Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine and American University of the Caribbean comprise about 45% of year-to-date segment revenues with margins above the segment level.
Chamberlain contributes about 30% of the year-to-date revenues in the segment with margins above the segment level.
And lastly Carrington contributes about 25% of the year-to-date segment revenues but is expected to remain unprofitable but improving over the next fiscal year.
Finally revenue within the International K thru 12 and Professional Education was flat in the quarter but grew nearly 8% year-to-date.
For the quarter solid enrollment growth at DeVry Brasil and the addition of FBV was offset by revenue declines at Becker and Advanced Academics.
Becker revenue decline was driven by the sale of Stalla and the shift in demand from the third quarter to the second quarter.
Segment operating income for the quarter declined from $10.3 million to $7.2 million as a result of revenue declines at Becker and Advanced Academics and by new campus location costs at DeVry Brasil.
Over the past few months since joining DeVry I've had the opportunity to dive into the various institutions and get a sense of the areas where we can really focus on improving as well as the areas where we can focus on driving growth.
I find it helpful to think about our operations in 3 categories.
Similar to the performance cycle Daniel discussed earlier we really have 3 distinct life cycle categories that each institution fits into.
The first and biggest category consists of the institutions that are in a transitional phase experiencing enrollment declines.
DeVry University and Carrington fit in this category.
The second category I'll mention is made up of DeVry Medical International Becker and DeVry Brasil.
This category is characterized by steady growth institutions or in the case of DeVry Brasil high-growth that are performing well delivering solid operating leverage and earnings results.
And finally the third category is characterized by high-growth and high investments.
The perfect example of this is Chamberlain where we're expanding rapidly and making significant investments in new campuses and new programs to meet the demand for nursing professionals.
To give you a better sense of what exactly we mean when we say investments let's take for example the cost scenario of opening a Chamberlain campus.
A typical approval process requires us to make significant investments upfront.
Construct the facility obtain the patient simulators other classroom and lab equipment and hire our professors and staff while we await approval from the various state and accrediting bodies.
Beginning with the preenrollment period obtaining approvals and enrolling students it takes about 2.5 years for these new campuses to breakeven.
During that time period we're underwriting about $2.5 million of operating losses until that campus is fully up-to-speed.
Today we have 6 campuses that are in this preenrollment stage that have been opened less than 2 years.
We expect to open 2 to 4 campuses per year.
So while Chamberlain's revenue is showing strong growth it's not going to significantly contribute to our earnings results because most of what we make there is reinvested back into the campuses.
Over the long term though we believe these investments are going to create significant operating leverage in the building of competitive advantage as Chamberlain continues to grow and create a formidable position.
Now I'll turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Well thanks Tim and good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the first 9 months was $355 million versus $485 million last year.
This cash generation drove our cash and marketable security balance to $332 million at the end of the quarter as compared to $599 million last year.
This balance was lower due to the acquisition of AUC in August 2011 and the recent acquisition of FBV in February 2012 along with higher share repurchase activity over the past year.
During the quarter we repurchased about 863 000 shares of our common stock for about $32.1 million or an average of $37.21 per share.
We've completed about 1/3 of our seventh program leaving about $67 million remaining under this $100 million program.
We also continue to remain debt-free.
Our net accounts receivable balance was about $255 million versus $224 million last year.
This increase was mainly timing-related which happens from time-to-time.
We expect receivables to be back in line with year-ago levels at the end of the fiscal year.
Receivables were in line aside from this timing issue that hit us right at the end of the quarter.
Bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with year-to-date bad debt expense of 2.3% of revenue down versus 2.7% last year.
The fact that our bad debt is among the lowest I think you'll see out there and trending down is an indicator of our students paying back their accounts even during these tough times and of the strong value proposition of our programs.
We're proud of our teams' strong focus on receivables and cash management.
Capital spending was about $92 million for the first 9 months of the year versus $91 million spent last year.
Total capital spending for the fiscal year is likely to be in the $145 million to $150 million range.
The spending is focused on expansion at Ross University and AUC along with new campus openings at Chamberlain College of Nursing and DeVry Brasil.
And it also includes capital investments on facility improvements to better serve students across all of our institutions.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thank you Pat.
One additional operating highlight I should add I'm very pleased to report and I think this press release just crossed the wire today the Becker Professional Education has once again been recognized as a top organization in preparing students to pass the CPA exam.
The AICPA presents an award to candidates who obtain the highest scores among all 100 000 worldwide test takers.
And in 2010 there were 19 award winners and all 19 prepared with Becker 100%.
This success is not only the extraordinary accomplishment by our students but it's also a testament to the quality of our course our instructors and the dedication of the entire Becker organization.
So I'd like to give special congratulations to the Becker team and thank them for pursuing DeVry's purpose which of course is to help our students achieve their educational and career goals.
So finally let me say that we're intensely focused on managing through the current short-term discontinuity in the long-term growth trend in U.S.
postsecondary education.
I'd like to take a moment to highlight why we strongly believe in the future prospects for the education sector and for DeVry specifically.
While continuing demand for career-oriented education is a long-term secular trend the number of jobs for example that require postsecondary education continues to increase.
It used to be 1/3 of the jobs back in the 70s it's 2/3 today.
And yet public sector colleges are not able to meet this demand alone especially given the budget and capacity constraints.
The Cal State system recently announced they're freezing enrollment in the spring wait-listing all applicants in the fall while again cutting enrollments by over 20 000 seats.
We have no doubt that quality private-sector institutions will continue to play an increasingly vital role in preparing students to fulfill the demand for highly skilled employees across the nation and around the world.
And this is partly because these institutions can provide the needed capacity to educate students at a significantly lower cost to taxpayers.
So within this large and growing global market what is it that makes DeVry successful? What's DeVry's competitive advantage? Well the answer is 3 things: career-oriented education excellence in student service and the use of technology in the educational process.
These cut across all DeVry's institutions: medical school the business engineering and so forth.
And together these are the 3 things that which we can be the best.
Many students are attracted by our focus on career-oriented education.
Examples include Chamberlain College of Nursing where our curriculum our faculty and our leading use of patient simulation empowers Chamberlain graduates to hit the ground running and to earn a 4-year BSN degree in 3 years.
Or the fact that DeVry University graduates are employed at 95 of the Fortune 100.
Providing excellent student services is a distinct advantage in higher education.
Many of our students need a high level of support to help them navigate college and persist to graduation.
One way we provide service excellence is providing the best of both.
So that's the best of both on-site and online courses in student services with a coast-to-coast physical footprint.
This is a competitive advantage over a regional college or the latest online-only startup.
And the use of technology in education is a third strategic competitive differentiator for DeVry's institution.
This has long been the case with technologies like online learning and patient simulation.
What's next? We believe adaptive mobile and social technologies will be transformative in education.
And we're focused on ensuring that DeVry's institutions stay on the cutting edge of these trends.
So in summary we're very focused on improving our near-term performance and on positioning DeVry for long-term growth.
We've experienced great deals of success at DeVry in recent years and I'm confident that we have the right strategy and the right people in place to address our challenges.
The 365 000 worldwide alumni who've graduated from DeVry institutions are truly a testament to DeVry's position as a leader in providing high-quality outcomes to our students.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions.
Joan? Great.
We're going to begin the Q&amp;A shortly but before we do that we'd like to call your attention to the schedule of announcements in today's release.
They're labeled as Charts 1 and 2.
Beginning with our announcement in August we're going to be changing how and when we report our enrollment data.
Now we'll be communicating with you in more detail prior to reporting our year-end results but overall we believe the change will give greater transparency and alignment to how our enrollment periods impact our quarterly results.
Now over the last several months we solicited feedback from many of you on how we can help you do a better job with your analysis of DeVry.
You probably noticed that we took that feedback seriously and we tried to provide greater insight into our operations and results in our commentary today.
We'll continue to do so and as always we certainly welcome any additional feedback if the added color was helpful to you.
So with that I'm going to ask Jeremy to give our participants the instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One of the things that I didn't you hear talk about is what you're seeing as far as competition either from traditionals or other for-profit.
So I'm just wondering as you look across your schools how you would characterize that now? And then separately can you just give us a sense of how much tuition discounting or scholarships that you've been using for your various schools and how that compares with say 2 years ago when starts in enrollments were up in the double-digit rates and sort of how you expect that to trend over the next couple of quarters? Okay.
Thank you Suzi.
And it's a good question on competition.
And yes there is more competition and it's interesting because I remember being asked that question when I first started at DeVry about 9.5 years ago.
And I answered it the same way then too.
Boy there seems to be more competition.
So I think like every other industry competition is increasing.
And what's most important for us is how do we respond to that how do we compete.
And that's why as I mentioned we really think those 3 aspects of career-oriented education service excellence to students and technology in education is key.
And then we customize that to each institutions.
So for example how does DeVry University compete with public sector colleges that are -- have heavily subsidized tuition often lower than our tuition? And so our DeVry University version of those 3 flavors would be small class sizes hands-on very career-oriented learning flexible schedule including that best of both online and on-site that I talked about that students can get a 4-year degree in 3 years.
So those are some of the ways in which DeVry University would compete.
Chamberlain likewise with its 120-year history high-quality academics strong support services real-world focus with patient simulation community service-based learning those are ways that that career orientation comes into Chamberlain's value proposition.
So the key is how do we compete.
It's always going to be competitive don't expect that to ever stop.
In terms of tuition discounting and how that's trended why don't I ask -- Pat you want to comment? Scholarships are very important given the student population that we serve.
We continue to use scholarships very prudently and strategically.
And given the current economic downtrend I think you could safely say that those scholarships are far more important than ever.
So they are certainly up.
Over the past couple of years and last year we granted about $29 million in scholarships.
Research Division</strong> Can we go back to the issue of competition because I guess my question isn't so much what are you guys doing to compete.
It's more -- have things changed competitively.
So are you seeing other schools moving it more into your markets or are you moving up market into their market? So I'm just wondering if at the margins some of what you're seeing in terms of diminished demand is coming from increased competition or if a significant amount of that is coming from increased competition? So Suzi I think competition is a factor.
But in terms some of the new competitors that have been in the news lately are in many cases going after segments of students that are not as competitive with us.
So if we look at some of the free online like MITx or Stanford or Cornell and some of the programs there those are -- there's no instructors -- it's really self-paced learning and then you take a test.
Most of the students that we're serving in -- and then maybe you might say "Well it overlaps because it's in computer science and DeVry University teaches computer science at the bachelor's level or the master's degree level.
But most of our students aren't really looking for that kind of self-paced they're looking for much more hands-on they're looking for an instructor a professor who -- a real progressive who's actually teaching the course not just content.
So it gets a lot of headlines but something like that I don't think it's as big of a factor.
We have cited areas like the RN to BSN where there's a little bit more overlap so that would be an example.
And then in terms -- are we moving into other peoples? I think that in some cases we are.
We are taking a little bit of share particularly at the graduate school level.
I would say that Keller Graduate School level -- Keller Graduate School of Management even though we're down a little bit many other graduate schools have reported much more significant declines.
And in the master's the science and nursing and the doctorial level programs in nursing those are newer for us.
And so at some level we'll be moving into somebody else's backyard.
So it cuts a little bit both ways and that's a little bit of perspective on that one.
Our next question comes from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> So first of all all the additional commentary was quite helpful.
Following up on some of those comments so first of all you talked about some of the cost-saving opportunities and some incremental opportunities could you just square those numbers you provided with the $80 million versus your original budget that you had talked last quarter about looking to get in fiscal '12? Sure.
Corey this is Pat.
The $80 million that we talked about was relative to our FY '12 business plan so as we had entered the year.
Given that we're 3 quarters through the year you get much more visibility on our FY 2012 fixed cost or cost base rather we thought it be more relevant or another data point to give you would be our cost savings that we identified and have taken to date and expect to realize relative to our current expense run rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the $50 million that you're expecting in fiscal '13 that's over and above that $80 million that you talked last quarter? Two different things.
The $80 million was relative to plan.
The $50 million that we expect to realize in FY 2013 that is off our current FY 2012 full year total expense base.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That is -- and Daniel it's also quite helpful the perspective you gave on the 5-year strategic plan and what you expect for '13 and '14 through '16.
I was hoping not to push our luck on this but I was wondering if you might be able to put some parameters around how much of an earnings decline you might see in fiscal '13 as a base that you'd grow off of in fiscal 2014? Corey it's Tim.
Let me help you maybe -- or one way to think about it.
It's -- I think the best way to think about the cost and the challenge we have at DeVry is that we have these 3 growth cycles in our business.
We have institutions that are delevering.
At DeVry University and Carrington we have kind of 2 types of growth.
We have the high-growth high investment in Chamberlain and then we have the rest of the businesses that are growing solidly and producing good results.
So we try to put it in these buckets so that we could help folks understand what's going on here because we're making investments in these growth areas which you'd expect us to do.
As you think about these cost reductions that Pat talked about the $50 million and even the $25 million reduction around headcount reductions largely those are targeted at these institutions where we're seeing this deleveraging.
And so we talked about seeing costs down year-over-year.
We talked about sequential cost reductions at those institutions for 4Q.
And as you think about modeling fiscal '13 we'd expect to see cost down at both DeVry University and Carrington and that's where we're targeting those things.
I think we mentioned that targets are those 2 institutions in the home office.
So I think that -- I think if you begin to think about it that way that will help you as you look into the 2013 year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can just ask one more quick one Tim I think in your commentary you said something about don't expect meaningful improvement in enrollment trends through the fall.
Can you just qualify whether you were talking about new student trends or total enrollment? And just talk about what you're seeing kind of the early portions of the student enrollment process as far as application rates financial aids forms that sort of thing? Yes I think what we're trying to say is that based on the visibility that we have that we don't expect any significant change in what we're seeing.
So we're trying to give you some sense of that while we're hoping for it we're not seeing it at this point.
Our next question comes from Sara Gubins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is David Chu for Sara Gubins.
Enrollment at Keller now turned negative.
Do you think that gets worse before it gets better? I'm sorry enrollment where? Research Division</strong> At Keller.
No I think that we're in a steady pattern at the graduate school DeVry University at Keller.
Not happy to see that as nobody is.
But I don't think that there is significant movement within a range.
Unfortunately on the upside but also I don't think on the downside.
One thing to note is there is a nationwide decline in applications to MBA programs.
The number of students taking the GMAT entrance exam in 2012 is at a 5-year low just as a data point.
So this -- that's across higher ed and across graduate schools nationwide.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So how much are your applications down? It's pretty much in line with what you're seeing there in terms of the course takers.
At that same those level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow up starts for Ross and AUC were down.
And I know in the press release you mentioned capacity issues.
So I mean should we expect similar type trends going forward for the foreseeable future based on capacity issues? Yes.
So the issue within DeVry Medical International and for anyone on the call who may be newer to the story I know it's a little bit alarming to see that big negative 20.5% number on new.
For those who have been a little more familiar they are sort of seen that scary pattern and what's happened is it's a matter of arithmetic and math here.
Those class sizes on the new side will continue to oscillate a little bit as we're managing through capacity constraints that we have and start to build capacity.
So for example we do expect growth in new student enrollment in the next in the May term.
So in other words it's not -- the concern is not a market demand issue.
It's not a matter of applications.
It's not a matter of that.
It's more a matter of working through the capacity and a couple of years ago when we had to get down -- deal with that and sort of set up a series of big ups and big downs so just to give you a sense of that so you just saw that big down in January.
It was of 2012 it was down 19.9% but in September it was up about 35% and May prior it was up 38%.
But the prior January was down 8% and the prior September was down 26%.
So you've got a lot of oscillation around the new.
But through that period the total has been much more in the range of mid-single digits let's just say.
So obviously the total being what drives revenue and economics is a little bit less volatile than those numbers you're seeing on the new side.
So I just wanted to elaborate there to give you that background.
Our next question comes from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Daniel given the challenges you're seeing at Carrington and arguably maybe just demographically that might perhaps be a less attractive business can you just talk a little about the strategic importance of Carrington to the overall enterprise? Yes.
Happy to because we believe in Carrington.
We believe the -- a career college segment.
Which we define career college is 2-year so associate degrees and shorter.
So associate degrees and certificates.
And it's a big growing and job-laden space.
So it's actually the largest part of higher education in the United States.
It's actually growing.
Right now we're seeing a discontinuity in trend but long-term trend it certainly calls for growth.
And there will be more jobs requiring an associate degree or lower even than there will be requiring a bachelor's degree or higher based on all the projections that we see and that the government gives as well.
So strategically it makes a lot of sense for us to participate in that part of the higher education spectrum.
It's very career-oriented those student need a lot of support services there's a lot of opportunity for technology.
So those 3 competitive advantages we have also fit very well.
So strategically it fits.
And then finally there's the ladder of education if you will.
So moving students helping students move from high school to maybe a certificate or 2-year program then to the bachelor's to the master's to higher levels.
We've proven our ability to do that with DeVry undergraduate to Keller to Becker Professional Education.
We're seeing opportunities to do that in other areas as well.
And so that's a third reason that strategically it fits in the DeVry family of institutions.
So yes we do think it fits strategically.
We're seeing both the sector-wide downturn impact us.
And I think in the case of Carrington more so with then DeVry University we've also had more than our own fair share of internal execution issues there so that's the bad news.
The good news is as we execute our turnaround plan at Carrington and fix those internal execution issues we expect to have a faster rate of recovery than just that which you'd expect from the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And in the context of the cost reductions you're implementing can you give us a thought in terms of what do you need to get the enrollments back to to get that to profitable again? Well with Carrington our plan our strategic plan this 5-year planning horizon only assumes it comes back not even to its peak but to where we were in FY '11 to the end of what we call the performance period the performance 5-year period.
And so we are not making an assumption that we -- that we as moonshot or that is doing something that's never been done before in human history.
Those are not good assumptions to be making we don't think in this environment.
So it is a recovery.
It is a turnaround.
But it's getting back to where we were before.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one last thing Daniel can you just comment on please the profitability the Brazilian business and then how you see the scale of the opportunity there? Well we think that the scale of the opportunity and the economics are very favorable.
It's also favorable from a bottom line after-tax margin perspective so please keep that in mind.
In terms of the growth opportunity we have done and as part of this 5-year planning process we redid it again.
We did a scan around the world for the most attractive markets size growth rate population college going percentage and trend regulatory environment all the factors that you'd expect us to factor into that country risk -- and by the way United States country risk is a little higher than it used to be relative to other countries.
And I guess and guess what Brazil came out #1 again as it has before.
So we are very very happy with the strategy that we've been pursuing there.
We see growth opportunities both organic and through acquisition.
I mean I can go on for a long time and I'm really looking forward to a trip in a few weeks to see our newest member of the DeVry Brasil family FBV.
But very very bullish and it is an area that is going to -- that we think has the opportunity to provide a very good growth opportunity and with very attractive economics for us for a long time to come.
Research Division</strong> So margin similar to what you do in the U.S.? Yes.
And actually again on a bottom line after-tax basis fully comparable.
Our next question comes from Andrew Steinerman with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff for Andrew.
Could you talk about what you see in student retention within DeVry University? It seems that the continuous students' population is declining there.
How much of it is student retention versus graduations? Sure.
So retention and we don't like most provide specific retention metrics but let me try to give you some background here.
The overall rates are historically pretty high although we are seeing some softness from those historical peak levels which you picked up on so you're right.
So what's happened is over the last few years we've made investments in the academic quality and student services like Student Central that's helped to drive the significant increase in retention but now we are backing off of that.
We think largely driven by the same economic factors that have been weighing the new enrollments.
There are higher numbers of graduates driven by the higher enrollments that we saw in the past enrollment cycles.
But not a major factor but it's a factor.
And the other is there's more part-time students than in the past.
And so for those who follow the DeVry story since being the first to go public back in 1991 and many have followed us for all that time.
Relative to those days where it was mostly full-time students move through in 3 years now there's a lot more part-time students who are moving through over a longer period of time certainly many students still graduate in 3 years and that's exciting.
But there are more part-time students in the mix and that smoothes the enrollment a little bit.
So hopefully that's helped as you think about how you think about retention.
Research Division</strong> And are you able to put any quantitative parameters about the number of graduates over the next couple of years? Let's think about that and see how we can be -- I appreciate that request and that feedback.
And we're going to keep working on that.
So I don't have anything for you today but we will take and get back.
Our next question comes from Gary Bisbee with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Zack Fadem for Gary.
Your DeVry University segment revenue fell at a slower rate than it did last quarter despite the slightly weaker enrollments.
Can you give us a sense of what's going on there and why that is? I'm sorry what fell at a slower rate Zack? Research Division</strong> The revenue at DeVry University your BTM segment? Okay.
This is Pat Zack.
I'll take that one.
So during the third quarter the revenue per student at DeVry University was up versus prior year due in part as a result of tuition price increase and some other things that influenced revenue per student in terms course load student retention et cetera.
So that's what's driving that or softening a bit of that enrollment decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And during your commentary you said that you would expect revenue to be flat to slightly down in fiscal '13 which seems to imply a reversal in enrollment.
How confident are you in this? That's revenue for DeVry Inc.
So within that again the trends you still have a decline in new student enrollment so it's still negative assumed next year in that -- that's an assumption behind that outlook.
Narrowing declines one would expect but still not assumed -- so all of that is not even assuming a true turnaround back to positive for DeVry University.
But you've got to -- we always keep in mind that we've got growth at Chamberlain College of Nursing growth at Ross University School of Medicine growth at Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine growth at American University of the Caribbean growth at DeVry Brasil growth at Becker so there are -- those are the countervailing factors there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could sneak in one last question on DeVry Brazil are you -- do you consider yourselves still an investment mode there or would you -- or is it profitable today? It is.
Sure.
It is profitable today.
Notably I mean after-tax bottom line basis.
Your next question comes from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Daniel I'm picking up maybe a bit more confidence in your tone today.
Am I hearing you correctly? And then I have one follow up.
Okay.
You are correct that I'm very confident that we have the right plan this 5-point improvement plan.
We've got the right people running the plan and working the plan.
And that's what I'm confident in.
And that's what I'm comfortable with.
I am not comfortable and I'm not happy and I'm not satisfied with our current results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up would be it sounds like there's really at least as you talked about maybe DeVry underground like no change in the trend on what looks like easier comps.
That would suggest like near-term we're not seeing any turn.
So I'm just trying to understand where the confidence comes if we're not seeing any turn near-term? Well because we're working the plan on both sides of the ledger and we are confident that we're seeing opportunities to be more efficient and to create value both in terms of cost reduction and some other forms of revenue enhancement.
So there is that.
We are seeing some signs of improvement in the conversion rates in the adjustments to new regulations.
We're listening to our people.
We put a tremendous amount of resources into training in supporting our people in the enrollment function for example.
So -- but yes and so I'm also very confident about the mid- and long-term outlook.
We're just saying that in terms of calling the turn if you will it's just-- don't have the visibility to be able to do that for you.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one more on DeVry undergrad.
If you look at the various channels the corporate military referral high school and purchase leads which is the channel within DeVry undergrad that's maybe the weakest and which ones are strongest? We've had some weakness in the high school channel.
And actually that's an interesting piece of color I guess is that the impact that we had as we adjusted to the new regulations in the recruiting function hit us the hardest starting in July 1 of '11 and a little bit before as everyone was gearing up for that.
Well that is right when you're going into the high school recruiting process.
And so there is a little bit of a lag but that's kind continue to hit us here in this July and September because that's when the bulk of high school students traditionally show up.
So unfortunately I would have to say that that's an area of a little bit of weakness for us.
Research Division</strong> Again can you just remind us what percentage of-- how big channel is versus everything else? It's not the biggest and I don't have a specific number for you.
But it's just -- it's one factor.
Our next question comes from James Samford with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dig on Chamberlain just a little bit.
I think you mentioned that the online RN to BSN is slowing down or actually was down this quarter due to competition.
And what's sort of going on there? And how do you feel about the demand for the pre-licensure versus RN to BSN at this point? Sure.
Thank you.
That's exactly the best way to look at it.
It's post licensure and the pre-licensure and in that RN to BSN we do see a little bit more competition.
There are more traditional I will call them 8 schools are independents so public sector or independent colleges who have launched some programs there.
And so I think that is a factor.
On the pre-licensure side we see huge demand.
We have a very strong value propositions there.
Excellent student academic outcomes.
We've had very strong reviews from the various reviewers be they accreditors or institutional accreditors programmatic accreditors state licensing bodies have been quite complementary of the work that we do there.
We've had very very good success with colocations and almost all of the Chamberlain campuses are colocated with DeVry University campuses and that has been a home run for us in terms of service to students but also in terms of efficiency and economics frankly.
And so the pre-licensure side is where and that's why we asked Tim to think about how we could provide some more color and with his fresh perspective he came up with a great way to do that because you're going to see that the new campuses in the near term do dilute the margin.
But each one is an individual economic project if you want to look at it that way.
It's very very high return on investment.
So that's what we're seeing there on the 2 sides.
Research Division</strong> And for just a quick follow-up on Carrington.
How long has that business been sort of in the red? And what sort of the nature of that? Is it primarily just fixed cost and sort of not being able to ratchet down the cost structure there or is there something structurally challenged whether it's the pricing mismatch or something else that we're missing? Yes it's really been this year and next so '12 and '13 the transitional phase as we called it earlier.
And we don't expect that to continue beyond that.
And yes we're in a high fixed costs high-operating leverage economics which is wonderful on the upside but we all know can be painful on the downside.
It does take some time you have to serve students over a period of time.
So it takes a little bit of time.
And I think that it's also fair for us to be self-critical and say that we could have done a better job maybe be faster maybe be faster but I think even more so be we did start pretty quickly but maybe we could have been more aggressive and you're seeing that now.
The next question comes from Peter Wahlstrom with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> And perhaps without looking too far ahead as we look to the recovery phase as you're planning today and making some cost cuts today how much of those costs -- are being -- are permanently removed versus how should we think about those costs that are being taken out today that might flex back with enrollment increases? Well it's an excellent question.
I appreciate that and it's a little difficult to answer with precision.
Because as we also -- in the long run how much of your cost are fixed how much is variable in the long run everything is variable right? So but as we regrow enrollment I would expect quite a lot of operating leverage and positive leverage as we go up.
And we demonstrated that very very dramatically in the last 5-year period we had 20% revenue growth and 50% earnings growth annually compounded average annual growth.
So I would expect.
But the one thing that is always important to mention in that regard is that as our enrollments grow we must and we will ensure that we have the support academic support and student service support to serve those enrollment those student enrollments as we bring them in.
But you will be able to do that on the margin pretty effectively because then you'll have sort of the incremental the next row in the classroom is sitting there and you don't need to add another professor as an example just take it down at the classroom level that microeconomics.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And maybe staying on the macro theme for a second most of the industry players continue to place an increased emphasis on building out corporate partnerships and relationships.
And I was wondering if DeVry has had to become a little bit more aggressive here or maybe just being an incumbent act as a slight barrier? And as a follow-up to that how are some of the corporations that you're working with and partnering with how they've been willing to expand their relationships given the I guess the current economic environment? That's an excellent question and I think that's an area that we probably haven't told the story as much as we've last would.
What did people miss about the -- we have a big presence with the large corporations out there.
Our graduates are employed at DeVry University.
Specifically graduates employed at 95 of the Fortune 100.
We have quite a large and effective team that goes under the banner of the KCCL the Keller Center for Corporate Learning.
The Keller brand is quite effective in the corporate world either off looking for MBAs and graduates but also -- don't be deceived that also provides a lot of undergraduate degrees for the corporate employees as well.
And also KCCL operates with the military with government so with all of those channels.
And in the military DeVry has been serving the military for 70 years.
I mean Dr.
Herman DeVry himself was training the army instructors army air corps on electronics and radar during World War II.
We're one of the first colleges approved under the GI Bill.
So we have a lot of credibility with the military.
We're not sort of a Johnny-come-lately when we're on base and so forth.
So it's a very important area for us to serve that need and one of the things that we have seen is that corporate tuition reimbursement has been relatively robust.
You can see examples here and there somebody might adjust it in the downturn but it really is -- we as a rule find that it's one of the more stable employee benefits.
That it's very attractive as an employer.
And it helps to upgrade the skill set of their employees.
So we haven't seen that being cut.
I'm going to have to just to interrupt because we're running really short on time.
I'm just going to ask the rest of the participants to please keep your question short and keep it to one.
And you should have given me the feedback to keep my answers shorter which I apologize have been going on too long.
So we'll do that.
So Jeremy? Our next question comes from Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Research Division</strong> When you said that you would expect earnings to be down in 2013 even if revenue is flat.
Is that aside from the $50 million in cost savings that you guys are pushing through or once you factor that in would earnings be up with flat revenue? It would still be down but certainly flat.
But to be clear that we haven't factored that in when we gave you that forward outlook.
We factored the impact of the $25 million that we talked about and the $50 million of savings.
Those are both factored into that analysis.
And our next question comes from Kelly Flynn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
On the revenue per student for DeVry University someone asked the question about this earlier and you explained kind of why it wasn't down as much.
But do you expect it to be up slightly again in the fourth quarter? And I don't know if you have time but if you wanted to talk through some of the issues you mentioned last quarter like people taking progressing at a slower rate and how some of those things have changed that will be helpful.
And then this one is easy but it was helpful the color you gave on the fourth quarter expenses but can you just clarify if we were to compare total expenses in the fourth quarter to total expenses in the third quarter? Should they be about the same down or up? Kelly this is Pat.
There's a number of factors that drive revenue per student including year-over-year tuition price increase comparison credit hour loads scholarships mix in terms of military students KCCL et cetera which may have lower tuition rates.
So I don't expect the revenue -- the tuition per student to be dramatically different in the fourth quarter.
There is some seasonality impact to that.
But it could be up a little bit.
It could be down relative to where we -- saw in the third but nothing dramatically different.
Research Division</strong> But you don't -- in the second quarter was down something like 4%.
I just want to make sure we're not going to kind of go back to that.
I'm talking year-over-year.
So if we model year-over-year should we kind of assume maybe flat to up slightly on the revenue per student basis? I can't give that guidance.
In the second quarter there were a couple of factors that we did reference in terms of tighter adherence to academic standards et cetera that may have impacted or that did impact that.
So you'd expect some of that to be flushed out of the system.
So plus or minus I think will be third quarter.
Right.
And then Q4 expense.
Q4 expenses there is some seasonality to our expenses as it varies with enrollment levels.
We think it's probably more relevant to look at expense on a year-over-year basis.
And year-over-year we will be up due to the impact of acquisitions and the continued growth at Chamberlain but looking at DeVry University and Carrington Colleges where we've had a lot of focus in terms of our operational excellence initiatives total expenses will be down both year-over-year as well as sequentially there for those educational institutions.
There you go.
I hope that helps Kelly.
Our next question comes from Jeff Silber with BMO Capital Markets.
I was hoping to talk a little about placement rates at your school specifically at Chamberlain.
Sure.
So career outcomes graduation outcomes graduate employment statistics are very strong for Chamberlain.
I know I keep getting asked this question because some of you have seen an article that nurses can't find jobs.
We -- our graduates are finding jobs.
We have services in place to help them.
And the employers -- like I gave you a little bit of an example of that in the upfront statement we talked about how the high percentage in some of the hospital partners that we've seen of the nurse residency positions being taken by Chamberlain graduates.
Again the -- and also the graduate employment statistics for DeVry University are also holding up pretty strong still in the 80% we're not meeting our 90% goal but it's still holding up very well.
It's more a factor of prospective students which is not seen among their environment or the neighbors or the friends in the popular press that's just causing that hesitation on the front-end but the good news to help us spread the word is graduates of institutions are doing quite well.
Our question comes from Jerry Herman with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's about Carrington.
You guys seem to be sort of underperforming the competitors in this space.
You've talked about execution issues.
Is any of this at all related to just focused on improved outcomes and gainful employment? Have you had to reduce or call any programs along the way? No Jerry.
It's really not a factor of that and actually the data we've looked at there are definitely some career colleges doing better than we are.
No doubt about it.
But there's also quite a number doing about the same or even worse.
I'll put us more in the middle of the pack which is really nothing to crow about but I don't think that we are lagging everybody.
It really is more of the execution issues.
It was the name change had a bigger impact than we expected it would.
It's factors like that.
So we are starting to see some improvement.
We are seeing our new marketing team doing a very nice job and being more interest in inquiries coming into Carrington.
So we do expect to see a turnaround in performance.
It will take some time.
But we're confident of the turnaround path for Carrington.
And our next question comes from Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> In DBU the last let's call it several enrollment terms have you seen any real difference or distance between Business Technology and Management in terms of how they've perform from a new enrollment perspective? I guess and also embedded within that any real trends between how associate and bachelor programs are performing these days? No it's bumped around where -- across Business Technology and then Healthcare Technologies the other growing part of DeVry University.
So nothing and I keep looking for that but nothing that's a real trend.
It's more particular programs within those broad categories Brandon but nothing that I would say you can model or take to the bank there.
And in terms of associates and the bachelors level again not a real trend there.
Just unfortunately pretty even amount of underperformance across each.
Guys that's the last question.
Was that it? listen.
Sorry we're running over time but we wanted to get in as many questions as much as possible.
I do want to remind everyone and thank everyone for your questions I want to remind everyone that our next quarterly results call is scheduled for August 9.
We'll announce fourth quarter and year-end results along with the summer enrollments.
Thank you for your continued support of DeVry.
Bye everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 DeVry Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Charis and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And I would now like to hand the call over to your host for today Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Charis.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor language.
This call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
Please consult our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
On today's call we'll highlight certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Further information about these measures including reconciliation to U.S.
GAAP can be found in our earnings release which is available as an exhibit to Form 8-K dated August 9 2012.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until August 29.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for information.
So before Daniel gets his overview I'd like to quickly walk you through the changes we've made to our enrollment reporting and the new schedule of announcements.
In recent months we've spoken with many of the analysts and shareholders that follow DeVry and one of the biggest pieces of feedback we've heard was that people wanted better alignment of enrollment reporting with the quarterly financial results.
So as you saw in today's release in addition to new and total student enrollment we're now reporting student enrollment for each of the 6 sessions at DeVry University and Chamberlain.
We'll be reporting enrollment at the end of each quarter for Carrington versus the 4-month period.
Also in today's release we've included the new schedule for each reporting period starting with the fiscal first quarter when we'll report September enrollment results.
Since there are 6 sessions you'll see that we'll report 2 sessions in 2 of the quarters and 1 session in the other 2 quarters.
We've also included historical enrollment figures dating back to fiscal year 2009 so that you can familiarize yourself with the format and adjust your models appropriately.
We believe this new enrollment reporting structure provides greater alignment with our quarterly financial results and more information that we hope you'll find beneficial in your ongoing coverage of DeVry.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Well thanks Joan.
Thank you all very much for joining us today.
I'll begin with an overview of the quarter followed by Tim and Pat who will walk through the financial results before I wrap it up.
Now consistent with our announcement a couple of weeks ago results for both the quarter and the year fell short of our expectations.
So on this call we want to answer all your questions.
And especially these three: What happened in the fourth quarter? What does it mean in terms of our plan to improve DeVry's performance? And what's the long-term outlook for private sector colleges and universities or PSCUs? And what's the long-term outlook for DeVry specifically? So let me breakdown what happened at the high-level and then Tim will provide some more detail.
Well revenues for the quarter fell short of our expectations.
This wasn't due to an enrollment shortfall.
Actually our enrollment totals in the credit hours at DeVry University for the period were in line with our expectations.
The main impact on revenue for the quarter was our decision to invest more heavily in scholarships and grants to help our students achieve their academic goals.
This decision was made in order to assist our students in difficult economic times and in reaction to recent changes to the Pell Grant program that now provides students with funds for 2 semesters per year rather than 3.
And since students weren't going to be receiving the funds they previously had in the spring semester we made the decision to utilize our financial flexibility to offer scholarships to support those students.
We granted about $5 million in additional scholarships this quarter of which $2.4 million went to our students to supplement that loss at Pell.
And just to give you a sense of the scholarship trend.
In fiscal year 2011 scholarships totaled $29 million; in 2012 that number increased to $42.5 million.
But while we saw an increase of $13 million in 2012 we don't expect that in 2013.
We anticipate scholarships this year being in the mid-$40 million range.
Now the second factor that negatively impacted our results was cost increases.
I'm going to ask to Tim to get into much more detail but 3 categories impacting this -- our cost during this quarter were additions to our cost structure from acquisitions in new campuses higher-than-expected employee-related costs and then onetime items such as the now-resolved issue with Perkins loan administration and higher cost in Advanced Academics.
So the results for the quarter and the year are clearly unacceptable.
And while we've made significant progress in identifying and implementing cost savings the fourth quarter didn't reflect that partly due to some of these onetime factors.
We do expect to make substantial progress in the quarters to come as we work our performance improvement plan.
It's a 5-point plan but I want to focus on the top 3 which in order of priority are: one aligning our cost structure to our enrollment levels; two regaining enrollment growth momentum; and three making targeted investments to drive growth.
Now with regard to our first priority of aligning our cost structure I want to reiterate our commitment of the goal of at least $50 million in cost reductions for 2013.
We'll accomplish this while maintaining and enhancing academic quality for our students.
The majority of the reductions will continue to come from DeVry University and Carrington part of which is the recently announced elimination of 570 positions.
And while the primary objective is about cost reduction it's also about creating value in other ways.
One example of this is the increased use of electronic course materials.
This adds value for our students in terms of quality and price and at the same time generates additional revenue.
Another example is our new HR service center.
We're centralizing our human resource and employee recruiting functions to both improve service to our employees and to [indiscernible].
It's important to note that our management team has a strong since of urgency and is continuing to look for other ways to improve efficiency effectiveness and service even beyond the $50 million of value creation.
Our second priority is regaining enrollment growth through increasing DeVry's awareness and brand reputation recruiting effectiveness and persistence.
Let me be clear that the most important focus has been and will continue to be the academic quality and providing a strong return on our graduates' educational investment.
We know that's the most important thing that we do and in order to grow and so improve our marketing and recruiting results strong student outcomes must be and are at the center.
We're continuing to execute in our strategy of shifting mix to higher-quality inquiry sources and these efforts have resulted in positive improvements in conversion.
We've reduced the share of third-party aggregators in our mix by over 20% and we continue to increase organic marketing sources like those coming from our website and through paid search.
Our focus on building brand differentiation and reputation is most recently highlighted by our partnership with the U.S.
Olympic Committee and the resulting campaign where we've featured some of our student athletes and how they let nothing stand in their way.
Another brand building effort is at DeVry University where in the next quarter we'll unveil new messaging which reinforces our key differentiator of being the career University.
Also making strides to improve our recruiting efforts key actions include increased training for our admissions advisors and managers making adjustments to the process as we've adapted to new regulations and deploying new technology to enhance recruiting efficiency.
Our efforts are beginning to pay off as conversion rates while still behind prior peak levels are beginning to improve in the 3 most effective institutions DeVry University undergrad Carrington and our RN to BSN program at Chamberlain.
I know you're going to ask me where we are in the process.
My sense of things is that we're about 20% to 30% up from the bottom.
And the third part of regaining our enrollment growth is persistence which is every bit as important as new student growth.
Examples of the actions we're taking here are improving the quality of our students' academic and service experience targeted use of scholarships implementing our enhanced first year retention program and focusing on service excellence.
This includes the best of both on-site and online serving students where they want to be served.
After our first 2 huge priorities our third priority is making targeted investments in future growth and diversification.
One of our best growth opportunities is DeVry Brasil where in fiscal 2012 we expanded and also acquired FBV.
DeVry Brasil continues to show strong growth and is definitely an area I wanted to encourage you to keep an eye on as it becomes an increasingly larger part of the DeVry family.
During the fourth quarter we also acquired Falcon Physician Reviews which compares candidates for medical exams.
Per our stated strategy Falcon further diversifies Becker into the health care market.
In addition to pursuing strategic acquisitions we're also selectively investing in new programs in campuses.
At Chamberlain we recently launched a new masters of science in nursing health care policy.
Chamberlain also just completed a site visit from our accreditor the Higher Learning Commission.
This was for our new doctor of nursing practice degree program.
Provided approval's received we expect to launch this new program early next year.
And at Chamberlain's Phoenix campus based on strong academic outcomes the State Board of Nursing recently raised our enrollment cap.
These are great examples of DeVry's operating philosophy of quality leads to growth.
Somebody asked me why DeVry is still investing in growth during this down period.
And Chamberlain is a great example of why we are as it grew revenue 26% in fiscal 2012.
And looking to fiscal 2013 the majority of Chamberlain's growth will come from new campuses we opened in the last 2 years.
We've also made significant progress growing clinical capacity for our medical institutions.
During the quarter Ross University School of Medicine signed a 10-year agreement with Kern Medical Center in California to secure clinical rotation spots for Ross Medical students.
And so you can see how we're focusing on the top 3 priorities of our performance improvement plan and especially the first two; aligning our cost structure with enrollment and regaining enrollment growth.
But before I turn it over to Tim and Pat I'd just like to comment on the status of Project DELTA.
As you know Project DELTA was a 3-year $100 million investment in upgrading our information systems.
During the quarter we launched the final major module which went very smoothly.
This is a terrific accomplishment as we all know the risks of large systems projects.
We're so pleased with the results and I'd like to congratulate and thank the entire Project DELTA team for their hard work and tremendous results.
And now we're excited to realize the benefits of this effort including increased productivity improved student service also better data analytics and reporting capabilities.
In fact the more frequent enrollment reporting that Joan just announced is facilitated by the new system.
So that's an overview.
And now let me turn it over to Tim for further discussion of the financial results.
Tim? Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I review our results in detail I'd like to offer some analysis to try to put the quarter and the year in perspective.
There are several dynamics at play and several different ways you can look at it.
But the 3 announcements I thought you might find most useful are mix of institutions costs for the quarter sequentially and costs for the quarter year-over-year.
Let me start with mix.
DeVry's a diversified organization and institutional mix is important to keep in mind.
Our fourth quarter and fiscal year results reflect a mix of institutions that are growing and delivering solid earnings results combined with those that are in transition phase experiencing enrollment declines.
Let me give you some perspective on each of these.
For institutions that are in transition DeVry University Carrington and Advanced Academics revenues were down 12% for the year to $1.47 billion.
This was offset by our other institutions which saw revenues increase 24% year-over-year to $614 million.
Operating cost and expenses at our institutions and transitions -- transition declined by $12 million or 1% to $1.30 billion.
This reverses an 11% increase in cost experienced in the prior year.
Our team continues to focus on operational excellence initiatives and has identified more than 30 projects where we're addressing costs and value creation.
We expect these projects to drive the $50 million savings we've committed to for fiscal '13.
Operating cost and expenses at our growing institutions increased year-over-year by $104 million or 27% to $483 million.
If you look at this increase nearly half of it or $48 million was related to cost from acquisitions.
The 4 acquisitions driving these costs are AUC FBV ATC and Falcon.
About 1/3 or $38 million supported the strong revenue growth and expansion at Chamberlain.
The balance supported growth at our other institutions: Ross Becker and DeVry Brasil.
I hope this helps to clarify that cost increases for fiscal 2012 are tied directly to supporting growth at these institutions.
The second way I want to look at this is to consider cost on a sequential basis.
Total cost from the third quarter to the fourth quarter increased $19 million to $464 million.
There were several key drivers: First was the impact of acquisitions and new campus openings which added about $6 million of cost in the quarter.
Second was the onetime impact of $6 million related to the administration of our Perkins loan program at DeVry University which I'll explain more fully in a minute.
Third we experienced higher wage costs in Brazil and higher employee costs related to lower-than-expected turnover which increased these expenses by about $2 million.
And finally Advanced Academics accelerated its summer marketing campaign into June from July and experienced higher school district start-up costs in the quarter totaling about $3 million.
Let me take a minute and explain the Perkins issue in greater detail.
There was a problem transmitting the enrollment data for about 10% of our students in this program to our third-party service provider.
These students were not being moved into repayment mode when they should have been and the fund was not accruing interest or collecting the principal it should have.
As a result we've incurred a cost of about $6 million for the lost interest and the estimated difference between the value of the loans and the projected recoveries.
The underlying issue has been fixed so we expect this to be a onetime cost.
Costs compared on a year-over-year basis provide a third perspective on the quarter.
Cost on this basis increased $27 million.
Acquisitions accounted for over half of the increase or about $16 million.
Campus expansions at Chamberlain increased expenses by about $7 million and the onetime Perkins adjustment added approximately $6 million to our costs year-over-year.
Costs at our other growing institutions like Ross Becker and DeVry Brasil increased by $4 million versus the prior year.
These costs offset the $12 million in year-over-year cost savings realized at DeVry University in Carrington.
Now let's turn to our reported results.
Our fourth quarter and full year results reflect the continued revenue deceleration at DeVry University and Carrington and the resulting impact on earnings.
Fourth quarter revenue of $506 million was down 7.5% versus the prior year and down about 4% year-to-date.
The primary contributors for the fourth quarter decline were lower enrollments than the prior year and the use of scholarships to help our students.
Reported net income of $8 million in the quarter compared to $75 million last year and earnings per share of $0.12 was down versus the dollar rate last year.
The results of the quarter were impacted by 2 discrete items a non-cash after-tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million or $0.28 per share for Advanced Academics and an after-tax restructuring charge of approximately $4 million or $0.07 per share related to workforce reductions.
During the quarter revenue in Advanced Academics continued to be below management's expectations and costs were higher.
As such we updated its near-term and long-term projections.
This resulted in a lower estimated fair market value for Advanced Academics.
During the quarter we initiated a workforce reduction plan that will impact 570 employees.
Looking at workforce reductions since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 we've reduced just under 10% of the July 1 2011 workforce.
Excluding these 2 discrete items net income of $31 million in the quarter was down 59% versus prior year and earnings per share of $0.47 was down 56%.
A reconciliation of these earnings results is included in the financial section of today's release.
Our overall effective tax rate on income from operations was 23.7% in the quarter and 28.1% for the year compared to 33.1% for the full year of fiscal 2011.
The tax rate on continuing operation remains lower compared to last year due to the mix of income sources coming from earnings declines at DeVry University operating losses at Carrington and Advanced Academics combined with earnings growth at DeVry Brasil and the addition of AUC.
We expect that our effective tax rate and the income from operations for fiscal year 2013 will be in the 29% range.
The tax benefit associated with the impairment charge at Advanced Academics is not comparable to our effective tax rate and income from continuing operations because of the impact of nondeductible acquisition goodwill.
As a result the tax benefit from the impairment charge carries an effective tax rate of only 4.8%.
Turning to our costs for the quarter and the year costs of educational services increased 7% per versus the prior year in the quarter and about 5% for the year.
More than 2/3 of the cost increase for both the quarter and the full year was driven by the acquisitions of AUC FBV ATC and Falcon.
For the quarter SS&amp;A costs increased 5% versus the prior year and 6% for the full year.
About 1/3 of this cost increase in the quarter was driven by acquisitions.
The remainder of the increase was for inquiry generation or recruiting primarily to support new location growth at Chamberlain.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with Business Technology and Management.
Revenue was down about 16% versus the prior year in the quarter and 11% for the year.
This revenue decline has been principally driven by declines in total undergraduate enrollments.
Enrollments continue to be impacted by weak economic conditions and the resulting hesitation on the part of some students to enroll in college as well as adjustments to the new regulations.
Excluding the restructuring charge segment earnings of $22.2 million in the quarter were down 71% versus the prior year driven by the enrollment and revenue declines spending on inquiry generation to support enrollments and resulting margin compression.
Earnings for the year were down 43% excluding the restructuring charge ending the year at 15.4% of revenue.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up about 10% for both the quarter and year-to-date with varying performance among institutions.
Chamberlain College of Nursing delivered revenue growth of 19% in the quarter and about 26% year-to-date.
The growth is primarily being driven by new locations that we've opened in the past 2 years.
DeVry Medical International which includes Ross Medical and Veterinary Programs and AUC delivered solid revenue growth of 31% in fiscal 2012 largely driven by the acquisition of AUC.
Excluding AUC though Ross revenues grew 7% for the full year.
Meanwhile Carrington results reflect the effects of double-digit enrollment declines reported last period.
Carrington revenues declined 21.5% during the quarter and 24% for the full year.
As a result Carrington generated an operating loss of $33 million in fiscal year 2012 as compared to operating income of $9 million in fiscal 2011.
Earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter were down 23% versus the prior year and 19% for the year excluding the fourth quarter restructuring charge and the Carrington impairment charge from the second quarter.
Operating income growth at Chamberlain and Ross along with the addition of AUC earnings were more than offset by the operating loss at Carrington.
Finally revenue within the International K-12 and Professional Education segment was up 3.5% in the quarter and grew 6% for the year.
Solid enrollment growth at DeVry Brasil and the addition of FBV contributed to drive segment growth.
Becker's revenue was up 3% during the quarter versus prior year benefiting from the acquisition of Falcon which we purchased in April.
This growth was partially offset by revenue declines at Advanced Academics.
Excluding the asset impairment and restructuring charges segment operating income for the quarter declined to $8.6 million from $16.8 million as a result of revenue declines and increased expenses at Advanced Academics.
Excluding the asset impairment and restructuring charges Advanced Academics generated an operating loss of $14 million as compared to an operating loss of $8.3 million in fiscal 2011.
We expect Advanced Academics to significantly narrow these losses in fiscal '13 on modest revenue growth and tight expense control.
Looking at the first quarter of fiscal 2013 total operating cost and expenses at our transition institutions are expected to be down on both a year-over-year and sequential basis.
For the year we expect total cost for these institutions to be down reflecting savings from the $50 million cost savings initiatives.
Total DeVry-wide operating cost and expenses for the first quarter are expected to be down slightly on a sequential basis but up slightly year-over-year.
For the full year 2013 we expect DeVry-wide total cost and expenses will be up slightly as cost increases at our growth institutions more than offset the savings at our transition institutions.
So to wrap up this was a difficult quarter and year for DeVry.
Accomplishments at our growing institutions have been overshadowed by enrollment declines at DeVry University and Carrington.
We will continue to support our growing institutions where we see attractive opportunities.
However our main focus is on restarting enrollment growth and delivering significant cost reductions at DeVry University Carrington and AAI while maintaining the academic quality and successful student outcomes we're known for.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? All right.
Well thank you Tim.
And good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the year was $277 million versus $408 million last year reflecting our lower earnings.
This cash and marketable securities balance was $177 million at the end of the year as compared to $450 million last year and we continue to remain debt-free.
We reinvested nearly $384 million for the acquisitions of AUC FBV and Falcon and for capital expenditures to expand and enhance our existing institutions.
The cash and marketable securities balance was also impacted by our share repurchase and dividend programs.
During the quarter we repurchased about 1.13 million shares of our common stock for $33.9 million.
And for the full year we repurchased about 4.26 million shares of our common stock for approximately $158.1 million.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $114 million versus $115 million last year.
Our bad debt rates continue to reflect the solid focus on the receivable collection process with year-to-date bad debt expense of 2.0% versus 2.1% last year.
So as you can see DeVry became the strong focus and operating discipline around receivables and bad debt management.
And I believe this bad debt percentage is one of the lowest of any publicly held private sector colleges and universities.
Capital spending was lower than planed at $129 million a decline compared to $136 million at last year.
Fiscal 2012 spending was focused on expansion at Ross University and AUC new campus openings at Chamberlain College of Nursing and DeVry Brasil and the final module of project DELTA which was successfully launched in early July 2012.
For fiscal 2013 we anticipate CapEx to be approximately $150 million.
This year-over-year increase will be largely driven by capacity expansion at Ross University School of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine the American University of the Caribbean and new campus openings for Chamberlain.
In fact Chamberlain has set a goal of 13 in '13 13 campuses by the end of fiscal 2013 and we're definitely on track to meet that goal with two new campuses in Cleveland and Tinley Park Illinois set to open in January of next year pending all approvals.
Now with that let me turn the call back to Daniel.
Okay thanks.
And we think that we're at the trough of the cycle that we've been expecting here in fiscal '12 and '13 and the Q4 results obviously reflect that.
We continue to believe that fiscal '14 to '16 will be the recovery and growth phase.
And we have a solid plan in place to accomplish that.
And in this space we expect to benefit from operating leverage in the investments that we made in quality and growth.
This outlook assumes return to modest new student enrollment growth at DeVry University in the second half of fiscal 2013 return to growth in total enrollment and revenue growth at Carrington in fiscal 2013 and a gradual recovery of enrollment to 2011 levels.
And lastly it assumes that our other institutions maintain their growth momentum.
I've been with DeVry long enough to remember another down period that we went through.
In the early 2000s we went through a period that was actually much worse than what we're going through now.
I don't anticipate we're going to experience anything as bad as that.
I find it interesting that the market is valuing DeVry at the same level it was back in 2006.
Back then we just had over $800 million in revenue.
Today we're over $2 billion.
We have 53 000 students then.
Today it's over 100 000.
Chamberlain only had 1 campus and worked in Brazil.
Today our institutions are much more diversified and able to serve the needs of a broader student population.
So while it's not acceptable to have our earnings down year-over-year it's important to keep things in perspective.
DeVry's after-tax margin of 10.4% is on par with our long-term average and better than the majority of other S&amp;P 500 firms.
Most importantly we provide a strong value proposition that meets a fundamental need for our students.
We're proud of our students' academic results across our institutions.
And in fiscal 2012 our institutions graduated nearly 30 000 students into high-demand fields including for example we helped nearly 4 000 students realize their dream of becoming a nurse and more than 1 300 medical students pursued their goal of becoming a physician.
And in addition we helped 50 000 accounting graduates work towards their goal of becoming a CPA.
So while our financial outcomes this year were not what we wanted many of our student outcomes were.
They are what will power DeVry to thrive over the long term.
And so let me talk about the long term.
Overall we're very bullish on the mid- to long-term outlook for career-oriented education and for DeVry for many reasons but let me cite 3: First there's a huge need for skilled employees in the United States and globally.
Second there's a strong return on investment for students who graduate from college; 23% to 29% ROI according to a new Goldman Sachs study.
And third filling that need for career-oriented education is where DeVry excels.
And so within this large global opportunity what's the particular thesis on DeVry? Well the answer is that quality plus diversification equals growth.
DeVry's reputation for quality is a differentiator among students regulators and accreditors who know our value proposition for high-quality career-oriented education for excellence in student services and for innovative educational technology.
At a time when PSCUs have been under scrutiny DeVry stands apart.
Even the most vocal critics of PSCUs which is Senator Harkin in his most recent report said and I quote "DeVry has demonstrated a commitment to investing in students and student services and in engaging in a dialogue to improve steps which distinguish DeVry from others in the sector." DeVry's diversified family of institutions is an advantage with our Health Care Professional Education and international operations helping to mitigate the current domestic underperformance.
And DeVry is positioned to transition to recovery and growth growth in enrollments revenues and margin expansion as well.
DeVry is serving the fastest growing segments in education.
We're the only one with medical schools the only with veterinary school one of the largest nursing schools in the United States and a growing international presence.
And DeVry programs present strong value propositions for our students.
In fact in recent pay scale rankings that measured 30-year ROIs DeVry University outperformed 9 of the top 50 US News &amp; World Report universities.
And so as we enter fiscal 2013 we are intently focused on the driving objectives of our performance improvement plan: First aligning our cost structure to our enrollment levels; second regaining enrollment growth momentum; and third making targeted investments to drive mid-and long-term growth.
Let me conclude with a thank you to all the members of the DeVry family for their hard work in fiscal 2012 and thanks in advance for all the hard work that is yet to come in helping us meet our objectives and our goals in 2013.
So now we'd be happy to take your questions.
Thanks Daniel.
I understand we have a number of people in the queue so we're going to ask that you hold your number of questions to 1 and maybe 1 follow-up.
That would be greatly appreciated.
Charis would you like to give our participants the instructions for the Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Sara Gubins Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start off by asking about scholarships and the increased level in the fourth quarter.
Could you just talk about what drove that decision? And then you mentioned that it's not going to be higher next year but I'm wondering if it might not be more helpful to ramp scholarships to try to drive new student growth? Well we do intend to stand behind our students.
I mean I think over the mid- to long-term we continue to see the opportunity for tuition increases.
But in the near term given this economy we're going to stand behind our students both to protect persistence and to protect our share.
And it's interesting that a recent Wall Street Journal article talked about how many schools are decreasing use of their scholarships because of their budget constraints.
So we are prepared to use our financial flexibility to do that.
We took a pretty sizable increase in this past year and we just -- we think that a more modest increase in this new fiscal '13 is going to do it.
And we're running a number of pilot programs to assess the impact and so that's -- so we're not going to roll that out in a broad-based way until we've assessed those pilots that's a very important part of how we operate is to do a test and control and then roll it out in a bigger way.
So that's our outlook.
It's a relatively modest increase from '12 to '13 but I wanted to add that because I know the sizable increase in the quarter perhaps we could have done a better job of communicating that took people by surprise and we acknowledge that.
So we don't view that as setting the trend or setting the pace for next year.
Research Division</strong> And then hopefully this is quick but would it be possible with the new reporting structure to just help us map the 6 periods that you're going to be reporting into the quarters? This is Pat.
So Sara the first 2 sessions of the year July and September you'll have obviously both month of July July and August that session and then half of September in the first quarter.
Then you'd pick up the second half and the second quarter of September and then the November session.
And then for our third quarter you would have all of the January session and 1 month of March.
And then of course at the fourth quarter you would have the second half of March and both months in the May session.
So we feel that this will give us the near [ph] perspective as an analyst our institutional investors a much better alignment of our enrollments with how we report the quarterly revenue.
Your next question comes from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if could stretch a little bit here and see if you could provide us maybe with a little bit more on sort of the direction or when -- the direction of enrollment outlook for the -- for maybe next quarter.
Will the trends get worse before they get better? Are we at the trough at this point on to the new enrollment declines? Overall I think it's just -- it's too early to call the turn here for DeVry undergrad Carrington which is really where the focus is.
This is not applying to the medical schools and DeVry Brasil and so forth.
And so I think we're probably going to see a similar kind of pattern bumping along the bottom.
I don't think it gets worse before it gets better but I think we're still going to be unhappy here in the fall.
One thing I'll remind us is that there's a bit of a lag effect that we saw in July and you'll see it again September.
Those are our bigger high school where we recruit directly from high schools the traditional college-age student and the seeds were sown for that back 3 quarters ago when we were at pretty much the depth of the distractions and disruptions from the adjustments to the new regulations.
So there's a lag effect that we're feeling now on those periods.
On the positive side we are seeing conversion rates improving which I think that really reflects well -- that part of the stream of activities reflects well in the value proposition that students are seeing in our institutions so that they're inquiring and then they're converting to an application.
But then the start rate the yield rate that some colleges might call it that's down which I think is more of a reflection of the consumer sentiment and the economy.
So overall similar patterns.
But we like what we're seeing in terms of improving quality -- of increase in quality conversions.
Research Division</strong> And maybe a quick follow-up on Chamberlain.
Look at -- obviously you've invested a lot in growing those -- that part of the business and yet sort of new students.
And I think that's an aggregate including all the new campuses is down year-over-year.
How should we think about that direction? I would have thought that that would be the high demand segment and we'd see new student growth there.
Yes well we did see new student growth in the July session of 14.7% and you're pointing to the May a slight decline of less than 1%.
Just remember that May basically is not the campuses it's basically just the online.
There is going to be -- and so we are growing at Chamberlain in total students in the 15% range.
I do want to bridge there it gives me the opportunity to just mention that Chamberlain is going to be transitioning its academic calendar.
We'll talk more about this in the first quarter it's nothing that's going to impact but we'll -- so we'll talk about it then.
But it's going to go more towards the January May and September timeframe for starts.
So it won't impact growth it won't impact anything other than a little of bit of timing on a onetime basis.
You next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question just given that the struggles at Advanced Academics and at Carrington when -- what would lead you to take more decisive action? It seems to me you're sort of subscale in Advanced Academics it's not going to move the numbers one way or another.
So I would wonder if you'd consider exiting that asset to focus on your other assets and how bad would it get to lead you to decide to close campuses in your more vocational brand? That's not a decision that we've taken in Advanced Academics.
What we have done the decisions we have taken are to change the leadership there focusing on improving course completion rates and really focusing on growth in our existing states versus penetrating new states which really brings down the cost structure quite a bit.
So we do expect a very significant improvement in the bottom line of Advanced Academics and fairly modest revenue growth in this new year.
In terms of Carrington we're very focused on reducing our cost structure and we have taken tough decisions there on improving the marketing and improving the recruiting.
At Carrington remember that there we're focusing on certificates of associate degrees which is actually the largest segment of post-secondary education.
So it's big.
It's growing that segment over the long term.
We're in a bit of a dip right now because of the economy and it's actually expected to have the fastest job growth jobs requiring an associate degree or certificate are expected to grow faster than jobs requiring bachelor's degrees.
Also it leads to the ladder of learning as the graduates of those associate and certificate programs have the opportunity to move to the bachelor's degree level at a Chamberlain or at a DeVry University for example bachelor's degree program and we're starting to see more of that.
So we expect to see improved results at Carrington this year in '13 and then get back to growth and profitability in the '14 to '16 period.
And then the quick follow-up it looks like trends at DeVry University and also at Carrington got -- or I guess DeVry University got worse in July from May.
The comparison there looks like it's beginning to get easier.
So should we read into that that things continue to get quite a bit worse there? I know you commented you think you're near the trough but I guess I'm looking for some evidence to support that statement.
No.
Actually I think the better way to look at it is I know we've just now changed the reporting to give you more granularity and give you the succession.
But if you go back to the traditional way that we looked at it spring to summer sequentially as we said there would be there was a sequential improvement from about negative 20 to negative 15.6.
So I don't want to belabor that because less negative is hardly the kind of thing I want to be talking about but it was an improvement from that sequential perspective.
And your next question comes from the line of Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Daniel I let me go back to the question on scholarships.
I just wondered what percentage of DeVry undergrad new enrollment in this maybe the last couple periods got new -- got scholarships? What percent of the enrollment was driven by the scholarships and what is the level of that scholarship? Then maybe the split between scholarships between existing students and new students? Okay let me give that a shot and then jump in Pat or Tim if I miss a piece of that.
About 25% of students at DeVry University got a scholarship.
Just to give you a comparison about 35% of students in colleges and universities in the United States get scholarships which is down from 45% about a decade ago.
So while others are pulling back we're proud to be stepping up and support our students.
Due to the average award amounts about in the $1 000 range so it gives you a flavor for that.
It's helpful it's not sort of the giant trend here.
Research Division</strong> And how about for the new enrollment? Are you -- is it mainly for existing students or is it for new students? I think for the fourth quarter that addition that we talked about was all attributed to continuing students as that Pell replacement.
Overage.
Yes the overage.
Yes I'm sorry thank you.
The overage that we talked about was all for continuing students.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so basically the improvement from spring into summer the less declines wasn't -- you didn't get that by offering more scholarships to new students? No I wouldn't say that was a driver of it.
Research Division</strong> And I think also ad growth was up.
Maybe I missed that in your earlier comments but can you talk about where you're spending it or how you're spending that additional money in advertising? And what was ad spend growth in the fourth quarter? Ad spending was pretty flat in the quarter.
Do you want to comment some more on that Pat? Sure.
Ad spending sequentially third quarter to fourth quarter was pretty flat.
But year-on-year it was up Pat.
Year-on-year it was up on the fourth quarter about 9%.
The majority of that driving and supporting Chamberlain in their continued growth and new campus openings along with the advertising shift at Advanced Academics that would normally occur in July August.
We accelerated that to better fit with the decision-making timeframe of prospective students for that institution as well as some increases in DeVry University.
Research Division</strong> So again it didn't sound like you had to spend more at DeVry undergrad to get that lesser decline in the summer term? No.
No really it's not -- and I know some people have worried about oh my gosh our advertising cost's going to skyrocket or something.
We don't see that being the case either in total in aggregate or if you want to look at it sort of cost per inquiry.
Pretty flat within the range that we're seeing.
Even though we're in an election year and in an Olympics year and all of that.
So we're -- and that's partly by tighter management within the marketing function and managing our vendors so we feel pretty comfortable there.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Appert Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Tim or Pat I was hoping you might be able to help us understand the phasing of earnings in fiscal '13.
I ask this in the context of trying to think about in the early part of the year profitability I assume will be pretty significantly depressed given the -- just the enrollment pattern and cost pattern.
Do I have that right? Yes.
We -- as we move into the first quarter as Tim said while expenses will be down sequentially they will be up slightly on a year-over-year basis in total.
But we'll still continue to see the flow-through or the deceleration of revenue at DeVry University in Carrington which will have more of a depressioning impact on earnings during the first quarter and then a lessening impact as we move through the balance of Q2 through Q4.
So we hope to see some improvement in enrollments.
Daniel mentioned DeVry University second half seeing some improvements at Carrington and also the $50 million of cost reductions will begin to pick up momentum as we move through the year.
And so hopefully we'll see some operating leverage on tight expense control and see some improvement as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> Should we be thinking maybe low-single digit operating margins in the first quarter? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow up sort of related to that is Daniel I'm really more interested I guess in terms of your thinking about appropriate levels of profitability or achievable levels of profitability in the business mix as it currently exists over the next several years when you get to the growth stage again.
Is it a mid-teens margin business? I don't think that structurally there's any reason we can't return to where we were to the range where we were.
So even high teens 20-plus percent.
I think one of the potential benefits of the work that we're doing and the operational excellence and these cost reductions is if the pattern holds that you've seen in some other industrial companies that these down periods force a lot of redesign and when you come back out you're more productive and so the cost don't come on.
So we think when you look kind of where we are trading from a EBITDA basis and you think about some of the work we're doing and the leverage that exists and I'm convinced that we'll be more productive on the backside I think we can get the kind of leverage that Daniel's talking about even on growth rates but maybe not as robust as we saw going back a couple of years.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Craig with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim I just want to clarify a statement you made earlier indicated that the total operating expenses and I take it you're talking the $1.78 billion in total op expenses for the year excluding charges would be up slightly year-to-year is that what you indicated? That's right.
We're looking for -- if you think -- we try to put them in these 2 categories of institutions in transition and institutions that are growing and so as we look at that the institutions that are in transition are where we're focusing the operational excellence in the $50 million program.
Most of it will be there.
So we talked about expenses in those institutions total costs and expenses of $1.30 billion.
And so you should look to see those costs down by the $50 million give or take next year.
Having said that we also expect to see -- continue to see a significant growth in these other institutions that are growing and those costs are going to grow at a rate faster than the savings that we're targeting in these transition institutions.
So we've talked about total cost and expenses for '13 being up slightly on a full year basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the $25 million in cost savings that you folks achieved in -- from prior workforce reductions in '12 does that factor in here anywhere? It does.
Good question.
If you think about what we're trying to accomplish in fiscal '13 there are a couple of things going on.
One is that we do have some residual savings that are rolling over from the $25 million program that we started last year.
So if you think about it think about $50 million of savings we know that the Perkins matter was a onetime so now you should be thinking about $56 million.
And there's probably $4 million or $5 million of additional savings that's rolling over from the programs we started last year.
So think about $60 50 million.
But we know also next year that there are a couple of things that are going to drive costs up.
For example we do have some increase in wages for the people in those transition institutions think about $10 million.
And then we do anticipate increasing some of our full-time faculty and that's kind of a $6 million $7 million number.
So if you think about the $60 million that we're targeting kind of as impacted by these $15 million of adjustments kind of get us back to this $50 million give or take target that we're shooting to save in next year in these transition institutions.
I hope that's helpful.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
Wanted to -- just one follow-up.
Could give us some guidance on RPS for the year revenue per student? Well I wish I knew.
I think this goes to the question earlier about what's the impact of some of the factors for example of the scholarship.
Daniel said we anticipate some up scholarships there.
That gets into course loads and I think that's a little bit beyond our visibility at this point.
If you think about it in Q1 though we think we'll see some improvement there particularly DeVry University where we had the Pell situation which will not repeat itself.
Our scholarships hopefully are running at about the same level and then we have some tuition increase.
So I think when you net all of that out we should see some modest improvement in revenue per student in Q1 at DeVry University.
And before we turn it over I just want to clarify Peter's question the prior one talking about low-single-digit margin for the full year next year and then we said mid I mean mid double-digit not...
Yes those were for the first quarter.
First quarter yes.
Okay.
Yes.
First quarter only.
Your next question comes from the line of Kelly Flynn Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Hopefully you won't count this as a question but I'm just confused by what you just said Daniel about the Q1 margin.
I thought you said mid-single digit.
Yes for Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay mid-single digit for Q1.
Yes I got confused I thought that was asked for the year as a whole and that's going would be higher than that for the year as a whole.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
So I guess my first question is the -- can you talk about PLUS loans? As you may heard another company today talked about students who are dependent on their parents reporting that the PLUS loan credit standards had changed and it's making it harder for a parent to get PLUS loans which is hurting demand and causing them to fund students more directly.
Are you seeing that at all?  And if so is there any implication kind of for the fall enrollment related to the high school students? No we're not seeing it and no we don't think there's implication.
At least we don't have any data that says there's an implication for the fall.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then last quick question.
All that color you gave on Carrington operating losses is really good to help us figure out sort of what's going on at Ross and Chamberlain.
Can you tell us what Carrington's revenue was for the year? Kelly I think you can get pretty close.
Yes if you think about the transition institutions and subtract out the Business Technology Management which is DeVry the only things that's going to be left in there would be Carrington and AAI so you should be able to get pretty close.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus specifically on the International K-12 Professional segment for a second.
And Tim I know you outlined a couple of things that drove it out like the acceleration of the Advanced Academics marketing but at least in my model I hadn't anticipated $10 million increase in their cost structure both sequentially and year-over-year.
So I was just hopeful you could give us a sense of what the go-forward cost structure is there? And kind of what the long-term margins are in that segment? Let me work on the cost structure and maybe punt a little on the second one while I think about it.
But a couple of things happened in one of my sequential analysis.
We did see higher sequential cost at AAI.
They moved some advertising costs into June from July.
It works better in terms of how they run and attract students.
The second thing is that there was some development costs related to starting up new operations.
Those landed and so the sum of those was $3 million.
So those we wouldn't expect a reoccurrence of those as we go forward.
And then the other thing we said in there was that we saw some higher cost at Brazil for some wages that was in one of the sequential analysis.
So Pat can you add some additional color there? Sure Corey and then in addition to that we would have had the acquisition of FBV.
That occurred on -- we closed that deal February 29 so we would have only have one month reflected in our trend rate during the third quarter but of course then a full quarter's of expenses in 4Q.
And then we acquired Falcon on the first day of the month of the fourth quarter.
And Falcon's business and just given nature of the USMLE a test [indiscernible] pretty lumpy as well as its costs.
So there's a significant amount of course delivery in students taking the USMLE in the fiscal fourth quarter of our year.
So you've got the double impact of the acquisitions of FBV and Falcon and then Falcon being heavier than it normally is during that time of the year.
I'm glad this came up because it just feels like I've -- that maybe we didn't -- probably our fault we didn't communicate it well enough but it feels like the community just FBV and Falcon seem to have slipped by some people's models.
I think we described that impact was around $4 million sequentially.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly Daniel.
I really appreciate the comment about -- or the communication the expectation that new students go positive in the back half of the fiscal year at DeVry University.
Can you just give us a little bit on what you're seeing in terms of real time trends that leads you to that conclusion? And what -- does anything -- if you just kind of have total inertia and the current trends stay where they're at do you get to positive or does something have to continue improving? Well we -- thank you.
We need to continue to improve in the marketing awareness building efforts that we're doing to improve the mix of high quality inquiries.
And we're having some good success there.
We also need to improve the -- also the cost position there.
And so we're being much more draconian with the vendors.
There was -- I can think of one vendor recently who just said you're gone.
And interestingly they came back with a much lower price so that allowed us to improve our stance in that way.
And then in terms of the recruiting effectiveness it's been a lot of training reassuring our recruiting advisors that hey you were compliant before and you're compliant now you really don't need to change what you're doing what you're saying to our students.
We tried some new metrics; they didn't work.
It led to an over focus on the metric when you just need to focus on serving the student right in front of you.
And so as -- and our managers sort of froze up in many cases.
Not quite sure how to culture what to say in this new environment.
Just people saw so much of this negative publicity out there and we're just very protective of DeVry want to do the right thing for DeVry want to make sure we don't make a mistake.
And so all of that frozenness is starting to thaw out and we're seeing improved conversion rates.
So looking to continue that trend.
Also as you pointed out at some point you get to easier comparables on a lower base and so there's no guarantees in life but that's our plan and that's what we're looking for is to start to see modest but to start to see positive in the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Silber with BMO Capital Markets.
I'm not sure if you talked about placement rates at all in your comments.
I was wondering if you could specifically address what's going on at DeVry University Carrington and Chamberlain? Yes we'll be coming out with that in our annual report of that -- of employment statistics.
We don't say placement statistics we say employment statistics in October.
So we didn't have an update and you're right we didn't comment on it.
And just in terms of color from what I've been seeing I'm encouraged it's interesting.
As much as prospective students seem to be discouraged which I'm concerned about for our country let alone DeVry and a few are going to college those who are coming in and doing their homework and graduating are actually finding there's a lot of open jobs out there.
And that's the sort of skills gap that I know many people have talked about and reported on that the employers are looking for skilled employees in nursing and in engineering and in accounting for sure.
So our career services offices are very busy helping our students and graduates.
And we are -- that -- we're very confident about that and we're flexible of the fundamental of the value proposition.
So thanks for that question.
And actually just a follow-up.
In terms of the cost reductions that you put in place at DeVry and at Carrington were any of those in the career services area? Or is that an area where we're actually investing more? Really not in that area.
But we've already invested quite a bit more over the last couple of years.
So we feel pretty -- there are some investments that I'm thinking of.
An interesting partnership with Career Builder you will hear some more about but fairly steady in terms of the cost structure in the Career Services office.
And your next question comes from the line of Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Keith Paxton on for Suzy.
Just wondering if you guys have done any thinking about the impact from Cal Grants being cut off next year for I guess Carrington and DeVry that might be relevant? Yes it's a concern for our students because it means that they'll have relatively more loans as a percentage of their total financial package that they put together to finance their education.
Carrington already took the brunt of that impact in the prior year.
So if you will we've sort of anniversary-ed that impact to a large extent.
It will be hitting DeVry University in a bigger way for new students.
For current students there's more of a transition period.
So it's a factor.
Hard to say what the impact would be.
But I don't anticipate that that'll be something that would show up in your model.
I would add Daniel that we do have in our scholarship budget at the mid-40s we have money specifically set aside for kind of replacement of that.
I think we call it DeVry Cares.
Yes that's a good -- yes the Cal Grant went away so we put the Care grant in its place.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then I just wanted to confirm something you said earlier.
I think you said you've reduced the share of leads you're getting from aggregators by 20% and I just wanted to make sure that's correct.
And then is that system-wide? And if you could maybe like give that a little bit of color of where you were before where you are now are you going to keep reducing that -- the use of aggregators? Yes.
We're going to continue on that strategy.
So I think there's more to come there.
And just to confirm yes we reduced the share of that in our mix by a little over 20% at DeVry University for sure.
And also at Carrington and at Chamberlain I just don't know if that number's the same that's a DeVry University number.
And your next question comes from the line of Trace Urdan with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I hate to take us back here but I just wanted to be sure that I understood exactly what you said with respect to the year-round Pell falling out and replacing that with a scholarship.
So are we to understand then that the scholarship grant is then seasonal to when that third Pell grant hole exists for the student? And is there any expectation on the part of the students then that that hole would continue to be filled in future years that they're enrolled at DeVry? Yes.
Well thanks Trace and I think generally yes.
I mean there's always exceptions but that's right.
It's more in spring because it's gone back to more of the traditional academic calendar.
You get your -- because we've got this trimester system which provides that wonderful value proposition you get a 4 year degree in 3 years it's that third tranche that seems to hit this time of year.
So that yes I think that trend would probably continue next year.
It's relatively new for us so I don't have as much grist [ph] under my fingernails as I'd like on that but yes we'll keep you posted on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And this is the reason why sequentially you would expect that that -- that those scholarships would then not be as significant in the next quarter is that right? Yes I think so.
And sequentially why it did hit us there in the fourth quarter and surprised everybody with that.
And your next question comes from the line of Peter Wahlstrom with Morningstar Incorporated.
Research Division</strong> So given your increase in exposure to the Brazilian market could you talk just for a minute about your expectations for that economy given some of the recent trends whether it's short-term interest rates cuts or still an inflationary environment there just how concerned are you about potential slowdown in Brazil? That's an excellent question and we look at that in -- run them through our enterprise risk management function with our board as well.
So we have yet to see the impact of that.
We worry about it but we haven't seen it yet.
And in fact DeVry Brasil has been able to grow faster than the higher education market in Brazil organically and then adding the acquisition impact on top of that.
So I think we feel pretty comfortable that the value proposition that we're offering there that the improvements that we're making to our operations by sharing best practices globally from our operations in North America for example are helping to perhaps offset maybe any drag that's coming from the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay and as a quick follow-up how are you thinking about tuition trends in Brazil? We're thinking about it in the mid-single digit range.
And your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Guys wondering if we could -- I guess if you can put a little color on what might change you or what might cause you to change your outlook or perspective on scholarships.
So are we thinking that this quarter is kind of already in the bag in terms of what you expect to offer but looking out to Q2 Q3 Q4 what are some of the milestones that we should think about that may change your guys best [ph] behavior I guess? I think the economy.
Again we think -- we know the -- it's not a -- we don't view it at this stage as a sort of a permanent downdraft in net effective pricing.
We can -- we believe that we can continue to have tuition increases which generally have been more modest than that from the public sector colleges and universities.
And so more at the lower end of the 2% to 5% range that we've traditionally talked about.
And so -- and I'm not talking -- the medical schools are certainly higher than that and Brazil is a little bit different but -- and so -- but if the economy got worse kind of God forbid then it makes sense to protect and support your students and to protect your economics as well.
So that might be what would change.
But we're giving you the best punt that we have on what our expectation is.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then I just want to make sure I understand.
As you looked at sort of comparing Q4 with Q3 and the trends within DeVry undergrad in terms of conversion rates and show rates did you see improvement as you work through those 4 intake periods in those 2 quarters or...
Okay so what we've seen -- we've seen improvement in the conversion rate which is the part of the process that we think best reflects the students' perception of the value proposition.
In other words it's a top of the funnel I guess if you want to call it the beginning of the process that's an inquiry.
Okay I'm interested.
So that seems to reflect a lot of things my desire to go back to school my consumer confidence all of that.
Then you get into okay now I've interviewed and now I've made application.
That's really very more -- much more directly tied to I like what I see.
I like what I see at this institution the value proposition.
And then the back end the show rate that you mentioned again kind of comes back to the economy.
Sort of in the same way that I want to buy a house I need to buy a house the mortgage rates are at 30 years lows but I can't quite sign on the dotted line that says that final process kind of skips back to a little bit more of a function of the economy and consumer confidence.
So we've seen an improvement in the conversion rate very encouraging but we have not seen that improvement at the show rates or stuff like that.
And our last question comes from the line of Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> How should we think about the conversion and retention rate between your online and on ground programs? Between online and on ground programs I think that the conversion rate has improved a little bit better at the -- in the online programs in the recent period.
That should cover it a little bit more quickly.
And I don't know if we can extrapolate that to the broader world.
It's a little bit easier to manage a group that's more centralized and so I think that some of the training and some of the improvements that we've made might come a little bit quicker it might not be unexpected to see that happen there in the online environment.
Research Division</strong> And retention rates? In terms of retention rates we've seen that come off of the prior peak that we saw in let's say a year ago.
And so over this past year it has slipped down a little bit at DeVry University undergrad; a little bit better at the graduate school level; very strong at Chamberlain College of Nursing.
We think some of the same factors that impact new students and their -- potentially just sign up to go to college are also impacting current students.
With the economy being so bad that has impacted some students who just say "oh boy I don't want to continue right now just because of the way I'm feeling about the economy." Research Division</strong> As a follow-up given all these moving parts what is your appetite for additional acquisitions at this point? Well our appetite for additional acquisitions continues particularly in our International Professional Education those areas.
Those continue to be areas of focus for us as we for example just did the FBV acquisition in Brazil.
Looking at more acquisitions like that.
Look very attractive.
You become pretty much the acquirer of choice.
In northeast Brazil we feel like we're seeing pretty much everything that's -- anybody is thinking about maybe making a transition and we'd love to inherit their institution.
In some cases even outside an auction which was the case with FBV.
So that's really very much a value additive process so still active.
And with that thank you Jeff.
And thanks to everyone for all your questions.
But I do know we have some appointments to get to so we are going to cut it off.
But we did try to go over to get in as many as we could.
Our next quarterly results call is scheduled for October 25 and then we'll be announcing our first quarter 2013 results as well.
So thank you all for your continued support of DeVry.
And good afternoon everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 1 2013 DeVry Conference Call.
My name is Emily and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Joan Bates Senior Director Investor and Media Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Emily.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor language.
This call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
Please consult our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
Also webcast replays of today's call are available until November 14 2012.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for information.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Well thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
I'll begin with an overview of the quarter followed by Tim and Pat who'll walk through the financials results before I wrap it up.
And last quarter we discussed expectations for our planning horizon through fiscal 2016.
We view fiscal 2013 as a transition year where we're improving our performance and then return to a growth phase in the 2014 to 2016 period.
And I am pleased to say that we've begun this new fiscal year on the right foot with a solid quarter of execution on our performance improvement plan.
As a reminder the plan has 3 priorities: Aligning our cost structure with enrollment levels; regaining enrollment growth; and making targeted investments to drive future growth.
DeVry made solid progress on each of these during the quarter.
Our first priority aligning our cost structure and we've begun to see our efforts here pay off.
During the quarter we realized cost savings over and above our target.
As Tim will explain in a second here we now believe we can exceed the $50 million commitment that we made previously and achieve $60 million in savings in value creation this fiscal year.
As enrollments have declined we've reduced volume-related costs.
And unfortunately we've had to make the tough but appropriate reductions in our workforce mostly at DeVry University in Carrington.
In addition to these volume-related cost reductions we're also focused on reengineering restructuring and redesigning processes across our institutions.
We have launched a number of task forces that are focused on this.
One area where we're reengineering the process is electronic course material.
As we increasingly adopt e-materials we provide enhanced academic tools for our students we reduce their textbook cost relative to buying a new hard copy textbook and we improve our economics as well.
Another opportunity for restructuring is real estate.
As part of our operational excellence initiatives we're reviewing our real estate portfolio to find ways to optimize our locations.
And this task force has done a great job.
They've already uncovered an opportunity to consolidate some of our administrative offices here in the Chicago area.
We've decided to sell our office building in Wood Dale Illinois and relocate the employees to other facilities in the area.
This move will save over $2 million annually.
In a third example of process reengineering during the quarter we began combining Chamberlain's media buying with DeVry University.
And this synergy has created a more cost-effective way to market both institutions.
While volume-related cost savings have driven most of our near-term efficiencies these restructuring initiatives are creating a leaner long-term cost structure and so as enrollment volume returns we expect to realize operating leverage and margin expansion.
Now turning to our second priority regaining enrollment growth.
Our teams executed well in the quarter once again.
At Carrington we're beginning to see solid improvement in our recruiting process with new student enrollments up 33%.
Going forward as we work through the turnaround enrollments could be choppy somewhat.
And part of this is a result of the new session-based academic calendar that we moved to earlier this year to benefit our students.
We'd like to point out that each quarter doesn't have the same number of starting dates.
For example in fiscal 2013 the first quarter had 6 start dates second quarter has 3 the third quarter has 5 and the fourth quarter has 4 start dates.
But we're encouraged by what we're seeing and we expect new student enrollments for the second quarter to be positive again probably in the single-digit range.
Let me mention that we do have a session starting officially on the last day of the quarter.
But given that December 31 is a holiday students won't begin classes until after the New Year.
So we'll include these projected enrollments in the third fiscal quarter not the second.
If we did include those projections in the second quarter forecast we'd anticipate a double-digit increase and thus a smoother pattern.
In August we relaunched the Carrington brand refining our messaging and then carrying it out through a number of media such as local network television and social media.
It's still early in the process but we believe this relaunch process is going to increase awareness of Chamberlain's value proposition.
And that includes the individual attention and the career focus that we provide Carrington students.
Enrollment for DeVry University undergraduate also showed some positive signs during the quarter as the rate of decline for new student enrollment narrowed sequentially and conversion rates improved as well.
On the graduate student side we experienced some weakness this quarter and of course we're not alone; many graduate programs are experiencing enrollment declines.
Recent New York Times article pointed out that in '08 and '09 at the onset of this recession many recently unemployed went back to school seeking a haven from the tough job market.
Following that surge there's now been 2 years of new student enrollment declines among the graduate population nationwide.
And that's the total grad school market.
When you look at just MBAs which is Keller's largest program it's even more profound as the country has experienced 4 straight years of declining enrollments across MBA programs.
In 2011 MBA enrollments were down 22% nationwide.
And so clearly prolonged economic uncertainty in the challenging job market have led to a cyclical trend of prospective students hesitating to pursue an advanced degree.
This is a trend to which we're not immune.
Our plan to regain enrollment growth at DeVry University includes channel-focused initiatives technology and brand awareness.
Now by channels we refer to the relationships that we develop with high schools community colleges corporations and government and military.
Each of these is an important source of new students for DeVry University.
In the high school channel we're leveraging our diverse array of institutions beyond DeVry University to raise awareness of career paths from business to technology from nursing to allied health.
We began a pilot of this new cross-institutional approach during the quarter.
With community colleges and corporations we've increased the number of representatives in each of these areas.
In terms of our technology-focused efforts we're developing a self-service portal that prospective students can use to streamline the application process.
Some students don't want or need as much live service during the enrollment process.
We're providing self-service technology for them.
DeVry's brand awareness campaigns are helping to drive higher-quality inquiries and steadily improving diversion rates.
Our goal is to differentiate DeVry University as the career University.
We recently launched our know-how series of ads which I know many of you have seen.
Our aim here is to highlight the growing need for an educated workforce to fill jobs in high demand sectors.
We're showcasing how leading employers such as Cisco Systems partner with DeVry University to encourage prospective students to pursue a degree.
We've provided a link to these ads in today's release.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing enrollments for the quarter showed improvement based on our continued focus on reputation quality and execution.
Chamberlain reached a milestone in total enrollment educating more than 12 000 nursing students in the September session.
The National League for Nursing the NLN recently announced that it has partnered with Chamberlain to establish the NLN Chamberlain Center for the Advancement of the Science of Nursing Education.
What an exciting partnership.
This is going to promote nursing education and new teaching methods for nursing instructors while significantly enhancing Chamberlain's already strong repetition.
Now the third priority of our performance improvement plan is making targeted investments to drive future growth.
Of course this includes new campuses and programs.
Chamberlain's most recent new campus opened in Atlanta this quarter and its first class set a record for the largest Chamberlain campus opening.
Making targeted investments does drive growth.
In fact the majority of Chamberlain's growth this year will come from new campuses opened in the last 2 years.
We'll continue looking for new campus locations and we're on track to open a new Cleveland campus in January and 1 in Tinley Park Illinois later in fiscal 2013.
At American University of the Caribbean AUC we're well underway on an expansion plan that will deliver a new state-of-the-art simulation center and labs for student and faculty.
This will further improve AUC's high-quality learning experience.
We expect the project will be completed in the fall of calendar 2013.
We're also investing in new programs at our institutions.
And one great example is the recent release of course materials at Becker CPA review in Mandarin Chinese.
We've done this in partnership with China Distance Learning an organization many of you know.
International expansion in the economy profession holds a lot of potential and this partnership represents incremental exposure to 40 000 Chinese CPA candidates who could benefit from Becker's course.
Collective acquisitions are also an area of focus for potential investment.
And during the quarter we expanded DeVry Brasil with the purchase of Faculdade do Vale do Ipojuca or FAVIP which is a little easier to say.
This acquisition further builds our platform in the world's seventh largest economy.
Including this most recent acquisition we now have over 26 000 students in 9 campuses across Northeast Brazil.
I'm pleased to report that the integration process is going very well.
We have a strong integration playbook which includes sharing best practices to improve student services.
One advantage of this FAVIP acquisition is that the campus is located only about 80 miles from our campuses in the city of Recife.
And this allows us to share some faculty and resources and to realize the full potential of this platform that we've built at DeVry Brasil.
We've realized much of our growth from this sharing of best practices and leveraging of resources.
So assuming that we make our plan this year we expect revenues at DeVry Brasil to reach $80 million to $90 million.
But Brazil is obviously becoming an increasingly significant part of our future growth.
And before I turn it over I'd like to acknowledge the upcoming retirement of Julie McGee a member of DeVry's Board of Directors since 1994.
We're very grateful for Julie's many years of service to DeVry and we wish her well as she continues to work on improving educational opportunities for our nation's young people something she's very passionate about.
To fill this new vacancy in the board we're pleased to announce that Dr.
Alan Merten has agreed to be nominated at our upcoming annual meeting next month.
For the past 16 years Dr.
Merten has served as the President of George Mason University.
For that he served as Dean for both the College -- the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell and the College of Business Administration at the University of Florida.
So obviously we're very excited to welcome Dr.
Merten with his tremendous academic and business experience to DeVry's board.
And also at the Chamberlain College of Nursing Board of Trustees we recently appointed Dr.
Joanne Disch to serve as chair.
As the current President of the American Academy of Nursing and a clinical professor at the University of Minnesota Dr.
Disch brings a great deal of experience to the position and she'll help the board of trustees oversee academic and operational policies at Chamberlain College of Nursing.
So with that overview let me turn it over to Tim for a discussion of the financial results.
Tim? Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
Our first quarter results reflect the continued progress of aligning our cost structure as well as improvements toward regaining enrollment growth.
You're probably wondering why costs came in lower than expected.
As we came out of the fourth quarter we approached our first quarter spending with an abundance of caution.
We really clamped down.
You can see that reflected in the $27 million sequential reduction in costs and expenses.
Let me provide you with some additional color.
First during the quarter we overachieved on our anticipated targets from our operational excellence initiatives.
This contributed about $2 million in additional savings in the quarter.
These additional savings will continue going forward and are one of the key reasons we're increasing our savings target to $60 million for the full year.
We're continuing to focus on future savings opportunities as well.
Second we generated about $6 million of savings from tight controls on open positions reduced travel and other expenses during the quarter.
And finally we're generating another $5 million in savings from deferring first quarter spending until later this year.
Advertising expense is one example.
Let's now focus on first quarter results.
Total revenues of $483 million were down 7% versus the prior year.
For the institutions that are in transition DeVry University Carrington and Advanced Academics revenues of $326 million were down 15% versus the prior year.
This was partially offset by our growing institutions which saw revenues increase 16% to $157 million.
That was fueled in part by acquisitions of AUC Falcon FPV and FAVIP as well as expansion at Chamberlain.
Total operating costs and expenses of $437 million declined about $27 million sequentially and about 0.5% compared to last year.
Costs at our institutions and transition were down a little more than 7% or $24 million versus a year ago quarter as a result of our cost reduction initiatives.
Costs at our growing institutions increased 18% and that's consistent with our expectations and to fuel growth at Chamberlain and DeVry Brasil.
Cost of educational services increased about 1.8% during the quarter.
Costs were down at our institutions in transition by 6% year-over-year.
This was offset by a 24% increase at costs at our growing institutions driven by our recent acquisitions and expansion at Chamberlain.
As you can see the majority of these increases were offset by our cost reduction initiatives primarily within DeVry University and Carrington Colleges.
Student services and administrative expense declined 3.2% compared with the prior year.
Costs at our institutions in transition were down 8.3% largely reflecting our cost reduction initiatives.
Costs at our growing institutions increased 9.4% which was more than offset by our cost reductions.
As a result net income was $32 million for the quarter down 44% versus the prior year.
Earnings per share of $0.49 for the quarter were down 41% versus $0.83 last year.
Our effective income tax rate was 29.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 as compared to 28.1% for the full year of fiscal 2012.
We expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for fiscal year 2013 will be relatively consistent with the first quarter in the 29% range.
With that overview let's shift to our operating segment results which are further detailed in our release.
Starting with the business technology and management segment revenue was down 15.7% versus prior year driven by the decline in total undergraduate and graduate enrollments.
Enrollments continued to be impacted by weak economic conditions and the resulting hesitation on the part of some students to enroll in college.
During the quarter we elected to grant additional scholarships because of the current enrollment environment conditions.
We now expect scholarships awarded for fiscal 2013 to be in the low-$50 million range up from the mid-40s range we indicated last quarter.
Total segment expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 decreased 6.2% as compared to the year ago period and were down 8.1% on a sequential basis demonstrating our continued progress on cost reduction initiatives.
Segment earnings were $25.6 million in the quarter down 58% versus last year driven by the revenue decline and the resulting margin compression.
We've been focusing on reducing costs without compromising academics.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up 7.4%.
Chamberlain College of Nursing delivered strong results fueled by the double-digit total enrollment growth reported in the July and September sessions.
The growth is being driven by 4 new locations added over the past 1.5 years in Miramar Houston Atlanta and Indianapolis combined with increased enrollment in our existing locations and online.
At DeVry Medical International September term new student enrollment grew as expected up 8.4% versus the prior year.
At Carrington the operating loss narrowed sequentially from the fourth quarter reflecting the continued progress from our turnaround efforts.
Earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter were up 8.1% versus the prior year.
Finally revenue with the international K-12 and Professional Education increased 17% in the quarter.
Revenue growth from the quarter benefited from the acquisitions of FPV in February 2012 and FAVIP in September 2012.
Revenue also grew at Becker driven by the acquisition of Falcon Physician Reviews in April 2012.
Advanced Academics experienced a revenue decline but narrowed its operating loss sequentially.
The segment operating loss narrowed significantly during the quarter versus prior year driven by increased operating leverage within DeVry Brazil and Becker along with lower marketing costs at Advanced Academics.
Also let me remind you that the first quarter represents a seasonal low point for tuition revenue at DeVry Brasil Advanced Academics and Becker.
Turning to the outlook for the second quarter we expect operating expenses at our transition institutions to be down year-over-year and sequentially while costs at our growing institutions will obviously increase to support their growth.
Total costs for the second quarter are expected to be up slightly from the first quarter driven in part by costs associated with recent acquisitions and marginal seasonal enrollment of the September session.
As we've discussed previously total costs for the year will increase.
This is driven by cost increases at our growing institutions and from newly acquired ones that weren't in our cost structure last year.
We will continue to execute on our performance improvement plan to generate the $60 million in operating savings at our institutions in transition that we've committed to for the full year.
We anticipate that Carrington will experience positive new student enrollment in the second quarter compared with the prior year while enrollments at DeVry University will decline from the year-ago session.
We will continue to execute on our performance improvement plan as we continue our transition year.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Well thank you Tim and good afternoon everyone.
Our financial position continues to remain solid.
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $164 million versus $187 million last year reflecting our lower earnings.
The cash and marketable securities balance was just over $250 million at the end of the quarter compared to $325 million last year and we continue to remain debt-free.
Our cash and marketable securities balance is lower than last year reflecting investments of $179 million for the acquisitions of FPV Falcon Physician Reviews and FAVIP and for capital expenditures to expand and enhance our existing institutions.
Our net accounts receivable balance was about $191 million versus $151 million last year.
The increase was due in part to recent acquisitions as well as a change in the timing of the receipt of financial aid because of our move to the new student-centric schedule at DeVry University and Chamberlain.
This year we made an adjustment to our tuition pricing structure to align with our 8-week session versus a 16-week semester.
Our tiered pricing structure is now available to students on an 8-week session basis versus the 16-week semester basis previously offered.
In the past we offered a reduced credit hour rate to students for every hour they took over 11 hours during a semester.
Given the shift to session scheduling we've now altered that to begin for every hour they take over 6 hours during a session so this allows students to start with any session and receive the benefit of full financial aid.
And now our students also have more flexibility with their scheduling.
In this quarter we did see some students taking advantage of the new pricing structure and taking higher course loads which is certainly encouraging.
However in addition to increasing our accounts receivable it also had a minor impact on our revenue per student.
Moving on our bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with bad debt expense for the quarter down to 2.1% of revenue as compared to 2.3% last year.
This is certainly an indicator of our students paying back their accounts even during these tough economic times and the strong value proposition of our programs.
I believe this level of bad debt is about the best of any of the other private sector post-secondary education providers.
Capital spending for the quarter was about $28 million versus $34 million spent last year.
And we expect total capital spending for the full fiscal year to be around $150 million.
Finally during the quarter we repurchased more than 1.1 million shares of our common stock for about $25.7 million or an average $22.74 per share.
Now with that let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
In the current enrollment many potential students are increasingly discouraged by the economy.
I'm sure you saw the recent AP study that showed half of college graduates are unemployed or underemployed.
And the headline in Inside Higher Ed the other day was "It's official higher education is shrinking for the first time in at least 15 years." And that's all of higher ed; public sector private sector and independent taken together.
Some people are questioning the value of a college education.
This was the cover sort of Newsweek a few weeks ago "Is college a lousy investment?" And of course not to be outdone TIME then had to put out a special report with basically the same theme.
In the current economy with high unemployment having dragged on for 4 years it's understandable.
But we all know that in the long run of course college is worth it.
If you get a chance to talk to the author of one of these stories simply ask them "Which of your children would you advise not to go to college?" Now and for career-oriented education the ROI the return on investment or the ROEI return on educational investment I should say is even higher.
The U.S.
Census Bureau recently released a report showing that the difference in lifetime earnings between a high school graduate and a college graduate is $1 million.
And the difference is even greater for graduates in the fields like engineering computer science and business.
And of course accountants and nurses doctors and ancillary care professionals will have enormous employment opportunities in the coming years.
DeVry's programs across all our institutions are focused on these types of high ROI programs or high ROEI programs.
And this is why DeVry is so confident about the future.
The new DeVry University employment statistic we announced today shows that 86% of DeVry University graduates who are active in the job market were employed in their field of study within 6 months of graduation; average salary $42 623.
That's remarkable in this economy.
It demonstrates the quality of our academic offerings and the return on investment for our students.
And we're actively enhancing our differentiated career-oriented value proposition.
For example we're expanding our partnership with CareerBuilder.
This provides Keller graduates with career services including access to a personal career coach.
As the economy recovers we believe we could see a release of the pent-up demand from people who are choosing to wait putting off pursuing a degree until they feel the economy improves.
When that time comes DeVry's family of institutions is well positioned to help those students achieve their goals.
Before opening up for everybody's questions I'd like to highlight just 2 other accomplishments of the quarter.
We're very proud to say that the DeVry University Advantage Academy was ranked in the top 10 in Chicago Magazine's annual list of top high schools in Chicago.
During the ranking period Advantage Academy had a graduation rate of 100%.
And the other highlight is the success that we had during the Olympics this quarter as an official education provider of the U.S.
Olympic Committee.
Not only are we helping our student athletes achieve their goals but DeVry's reputation benefited by being aligned with the USOC and these athletes.
In fact as one data point the lift that DeVry's brand awareness received in social media was on par with Olympic partners such as McDonald's and Coca-Cola.
We're now honored to support more than 60 student athletes currently studying at DeVry University one of whom is swimmer Peter Vanderkaay who won bronze at the games and is now well on the path towards achieving his graduate certificate in entrepreneurship from Keller.
So to wrap-up we ended the first quarter pleased with the progress that we've made on our performance improvement plan: Progress in cost alignment progress in enrollments progress in growth investment.
We know there's much more work to be done.
But we're focused on making fiscal 2013 a successful transition year and setting the stage for a return to overall enrollment growth and increased operating leverage in 2014 and beyond.
And now we'd be very happy to take your questions.
Okay with that I'm going to ask Emily to give our participants the instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the average cost per credit now that students will get some discounts after 6 credits how should we think about revenue per student? I understand that the tuition will -- the average cost is going to come down it will improve retention.
Help us go through the dynamic.
Sure it's Tim.
And thanks for your question.
So the first thing I think you need to point out is that this is fundamentally the same tiered pricing structure we had before.
We're just converting it from a 16-week period to an 8.
Now we did see in the quarter some students take advantage of that and we saw some increase from those students to take advantage of that pricing advantage.
When we talked to you last quarter we talked about expecting about a 1% net improvement in our pricing based on the price increase that we had announced.
And we actually saw average revenue per student go down about 1.5%.
So here's what the components were: About half a point was from students taking advantage of this new tiered pricing structure; about a point came from mix shift where we saw movement toward corporate and military channels where tuitions are lower; and about a percentage from additional scholarships that we referred to earlier.
So some of the pricing is sticking but we're seeing some other moving pieces here.
And we think this probably lower revenue per student is probably the new norm or at least in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when we look at the capacity the physical capacity in campuses do we still have -- some time ago we used to talk about big bucks campuses.
Are those pretty much rationalized or there's still capacity there? Sure Jeff.
There's some opportunity there and we're taking a look at that as we always do.
And also some of our if you will back-office facilities in the announcement that we made here today was if you will a service center it's not a campus.
But the savings to our cost structure is something we're going to take advantage of nonetheless.
Your next question comes from the line of James Samford for Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on the Medical and Healthcare side.
It looks like obviously operating margins came in I think positive year-over-year for the first time and I don't know in least 3 years here.
I'm just wondering how much of the -- is that a function of mix cost-cutting versus -- or slowing down of investments or lapping some of the sort of the investments you're making in Chamberlain for example on the prior years? Good question.
This is Pat.
Part of the margin improvement was driven specifically within DeVry Medical International where in this quarter we'll have 3 full months of the results of AUC whereas last year we had just 2 months.
And from an overall mix within that segment the Medical -- DeVry Medical International has a higher OI than its peers.
And then we did -- Chamberlain was relatively flat and we did see again what we already said that new students are up at Carrington is also helping drive some improvement in the profitability in that segment.
Research Division</strong> And how should I think about -- it sounds like there was a little bit of a onetime benefit from AUC and so we may get back into negatives just given mix shift back in the other direction going forward is that fair? Well moving into the second quarter again it's -- we'll see some seasonality.
So we'll see an increase in the enrollments at DeVry Medical International just with a larger September enrollment class.
But we do see some softer revenues at Carrington just from a seasonality perspective in that we offer fewer classes during the month of December.
So from a sequential perspective the operating margin for that group could likely be a little bit off and then pick back up for the balance of the year.
We do expect -- it's Tim.
We do expect to see revenues up in each of our 3 segments sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And one quick question on advertising.
What was the advertising spend this quarter? And how much of the -- how much is shifting into Q2? Sure.
The advertising expense for this quarter was $68 million versus $70.8 million in the fourth quarter.
And we expect say $3 million to $4 million will shift into Q2.
Your next question comes from the line of Sara Gubins Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm hoping that you could talk about how you determine the effectiveness or the decision to increase scholarships? And what I'm really wondering is why not ramp scholarships more to drive enrollment.
Sure Sara we are certainly taking a look at that.
We're running a couple of tests right now at DeVry University to do just that to help new students to achieve their goals.
And we like to test before we roll it out.
We feel it's very important to do a test before rolling out system-wide.
It takes a little longer but DeVry manages for the long term so that is underway.
The other thing to keep in mind is scholarships are certainly quite different institution by institution.
So really not -- very little of that activity for example at the DeVry Medical International schools or that kind of thing as opposed to what I'm referring to in that test which is DeVry University.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then you saw a nice improvement for undergrad DeVry University in terms of the declines in new student starts.
Based on what you're seeing do you think you've seen the worst of it and that we should see those declines narrow going forward? That is certainly what we're looking for.
That's what we're hoping for.
I think it's a little too early to call the churn on that and we continue to be cautious.
I'm not going to get too excited about July and September.
We're a little bit ahead of our plan but we're not as clear here on the upcoming fall.
I think we're going to probably see sort of net-net about the same range.
So I'd like to see that decline narrow a little bit more but not quite seeing that yet.
Still looking for that in the second half of the year but near term probably about the same as what we're seeing right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ginocchio for Deutsche Securities.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up to that last one.
Just as you look through applications and conversion rates and show rates is there -- and I guess the channel mix because as you move away from high school that should show some I guess that would -- I think that's your worst channel so I would have thought as you move away from higher exposure to high school your new enrollment -- your enrollment churns would become -- see less declines.
Can you just talk about what's changing in the various channels and on each of those 3 underlying ones? Then a second follow-up on sort of the last question also.
Do think there's pretty good elasticity of demand around price? And is that -- from what you've seen so far? Sure.
I think elasticity of demand we've generally been -- historically higher education is relatively inelastic in the sense that small -- changes in price don't really affect demand very much.
I think we're in a period of discontinuity in that long-term dynamic and it's very difficult to say if that will carry -- as the economy improves which I'll hope that it will and let's expect that it will are we -- will that go back to the way it was or have we sort of permanently reset that? That's difficult for anybody to forecast.
We -- for the near term we're anticipating that tuition will go up in some of our institutions but stay the same at some other institutions and programs; we may stay flat.
In terms of increase in applications and conversions and the things you were asking about I would say overall at DeVry University inquiries remain soft.
The good news though is that higher-quality inquiries are up and that's important.
Conversion rates are up and that's important.
And then third I would say whereas at the start of the downturn man just everything was down.
Every metro every channel every program everything was just down.
Now there's a lot more variability.
Many of our metros are up up on conversion up on new students in absolute terms and so while we're down overall obviously it is encouraging as a manager when you start to see these signs of improvement.
So we don't think that it's just a continued long-term decline forever.
We see that we are going to be able to turn this around.
And I think that Carrington's turnaround is very encouraging.
Traditionally historically the 2-year market has been a leading indicator of the 4-year.
So we would like to think that'll happen again here.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee for Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions from me.
The first one could you -- I think you gave some color around Carrington but I missed the -- in terms of the number of start periods and specifically what impact that had on this really strong looking new student number.
Could you review that again and just maybe a little more color on exactly how you have turned the corner there? What led to the better performance whether it was marketing whether -- what are the factors there? Sure sure.
Absolutely Gary.
At Carrington just to review the numbers you're asking for.
And this is a change to our academic calendar that we've anticipated been working on for some time.
It has a number of student academic benefits and -- but one of the results of it is it does create a little quirkiness or choppiness in the academic calendar with different starts numbers of starts in each quarter.
So the first quarter of fiscal '13 our September quarter that we just wrapped up had 6 start dates.
Second quarter will have 3.
The third quarter will have 5 and the fourth quarter will have 4.
And as the years go on just because of the nature of academics and the way they set calendars there'll always be a little bit of variation just the way holidays fall and things like that.
I don't think that's the driver of why we're up at Carrington that oh we have more start dates.
The driver is execution on the turnaround plan.
So it has been much better execution in the marketing function for one.
We've done a -- what we called the relaunch of the Carrington brand.
We did a good job of changing the brand but it happened to happen in sort of at the perfect storm.
It happened at the very time of all the discontinuity and tumult I'll use the new buzzword of tumult in the career college segment.
So I think that we lost some mind share with prospective students.
And we just said "Let's just do a fresh start and a relaunch on the brand campaign." And so I think that had an impact.
So inquiries are up high-quality better converting inquiries are up as well and then better execution on the recruiting side.
We've implemented a qualification center as we call it a contact center and that team is doing a very very good job.
So -- and just overall Carrington is executing much better in executing its planning.
So that is what is -- we're seeing.
And then I was just alluding to some color that you're going to -- so we don't think you'll see double digit 33%; next quarter will be more like single digit.
And part of that is due to these start dates going forward.
But we do see another quarter of positive.
So not choppy to the extent of positive and negative just varying rates of positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the one quick follow-up were there other costs in the marketing you talked about earlier that were deferred or was much more of the improvement versus last quarter that you actually -- the comment -- the line about taking costs out? It was mostly costs out but there was a little bit of timing shift.
Yes.
So the significant majority was taking costs out vis--vis our operational excellence initiative as well as as Tim said we really clamped down on a lot of other spending.
In terms of the overall deferral of $5 million in total the majority of that is advertising and there were some other deferred projects that we shifted for the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Appert for Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Tim or Pat I was hoping you could maybe give us a little help in terms of thinking about the seasonality and profitability this year.
I think the normal pattern has been that your margins are a fair amount higher in the second and third quarters than they are in the first and the fourth.
Is that the pattern this year? Should -- and I'm asking this in the context of some of the timing issues around cost.
And just any thoughts in terms of sequentially could we see the same level of margin improvement we've seen in past years? So from the overall seasonality yes we expect that that seasonal pattern will hold true for fiscal '13 with some improvement in our margins as we move here into the second and third quarter and then stepping down a little bit in the fourth quarter as students start to graduate and matriculate from the university.
Just a way to think about maybe expenses as we've looked from Q1 to Q2 we have these additional operational excellence savings we talked about earlier kind of in the $2 million range.
And probably $4 million to $5 million of these costs that got deferred will flip back into the second quarter.
And then we have about $2 million of additional costs from FAVIP so kind of a net $4 million to $5 million increase.
And that should get you in the right ballpark plus-or-minus a couple of million just given the size of spend but hopefully that helps you to think about the sequence.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then Daniel just one unrelated question.
Much discussion in the industry about pricing dynamics and pricing pressure et cetera.
I'm just wondering how you're thinking conceptually over the next several years about pricing dynamic for DeVry.
Do you think there's room for modest tuition price increases going forward? Yes Peter I do.
I think that pricing is a function of the value that's provided to the student or to any customer in any industry I suppose you could think of it that way.
The other factor that comes into play is the competitive set.
And we're still seeing tuition increases at the largest group of competitors that most of our universities face which are the public sector colleges and universities.
Now this last year just came out.
I think you probably just saw the other day that the lowest rate of tuition increase in years in recent memory from the public sector colleges universities I think it was 4.2% 4.4% something like that down from 8.4% increase in the prior year has came from the college board so.
And everyone was -- acknowledged or believed [ph] what a low rate of increase at 4-plus-percent.
So there is I think going to be -- now it varies by institution and it varies by program.
So we do have some programs where this year we didn't take any price increase or tuition increase and kept it flat.
And then others increased.
And I anticipate that kind of dynamic for the near future next few years.
There'll be some programs that might not go up but others that will.
Your next question comes from the line of Kelly Flynn for Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to waste a question on this but I just want to go back to the comments you made on -- I think it was the last question Tim about expenses sequentially in the second quarter.
If you net out all of the things you said you're saying sequentially that you think the expenses will be up $4 million to $5 million is that what I heard? That's correct.
Plus-or-minus a couple of million for -- it just depends on what happens.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
That's very helpful.
And then also I know we talked about kind of discounting revenue per student but can you give a bit more help on kind of how to think about annual revenue per student change at DeVry University for fiscal '13 in light of some of the factors you're talking about just now? Sure.
Let me kind of walk you through that again.
We did have a tuition increase at DeVry University undergrad and we didn't expect all that to stick.
The tuition increase was around 2%.
We expected about half of that to stick counting some of these moving pieces.
And we -- as I mentioned earlier it actually declined.
Instead of going up 1% it went down 1.5%.
3 factors: One we did see about a half a point -- and so think about this Kelly in the sense of the total revenues for the quarter for the Business Technology and Management segment.
So a percent's a couple of million dollars.
So we did see students taking advantage of this new tiered-pricing structure which means that they were able to and did take more classes so more of them got into the lower rate.
That -- we think that's good for students and persistence.
The second factor is we did see a mix shift about a point toward corporate and military channels the tuitions are lower and then we saw about a point from additional scholarships that we talked about earlier.
So instead of kind of being up a percentage it was down 1.5% those 3 factors.
And we think -- based on our visibility we think that's kind of the new normal in the near term.
That's about as good a picture as we have at the moment.
Of course we're paying a lot of attention to scholarships.
We talked about that earlier on the call.
So we're working all the levers here but that's a way to think about revenue per student.
Your next question comes from the line of time Donny Greendale (sic) [Corey Greendale] for First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I had a few questions.
So first of all Daniel congratulations on the quarter and I'm thinking of a more positive tone and understandably so.
You're somewhat bucking the trend in that sense and was hoping could you just put in context kind of how you're thinking about the business generally? Is it -- would you say it's still quite choppy visibility not great if this happens? You put some -- a couple of good points on the board here but this isn't necessarily an inexorable step on the pathway up or do you think you really have turned a -- started to turn a corner here? Well I think when it comes to -- it's 2 stories really.
One is the Carrington story with that solid up and then DeVry University with a narrowing decline.
But unfortunately still a decline we shouldn't take too much credit or anything here.
So I think with Carrington it's really not clear that we can call the turn on the career college mark.
When people say "You called a turn " to me that means calling the turn on the market.
And I don't think we can say that.
We don't have data to support that.
I think it's more of Carrington claiming its rightful share in that down-market relative to prior periods where we weren't.
And we were not executing as well and we put a turnaround plan in place and we walked to all the points of that previously.
So I won't belabor that.
But we're clearly executing on that.
So I think it's Carrington stepping up and taking its share.
With DeVry University we've had some sessions a little bit better than we planned.
I think here as we move into the fall we hope to narrow the decline a little bit more and I think we're a little behind that initial plan that we set.
So probably about the same is where we are and we're bound and determined to lift that up in the second half.
I think we have a number of factors that give us reason for setting that plan because some of the things that are holding us back a little bit are still continued adjustments to some of the changes that were put in place in the recruiting function.
We did go through a pretty painful reduction in our staffing levels here.
It was the right thing to do.
We had to do that we needed to do that we did it.
But that does have a distracting impact and I think in the near term that's actually taken away.
So even though we've narrowed the rate of decline maybe it would have been even more narrowed if we haven't gone through that period of distraction.
But we don't expect to see a lot more of that.
So we think that will help us improve as we move more into the second half.
At then there's a number of innovations technology improvements.
I mentioned the portal for helping new students do more self-service.
There's a whole raft of projects lined up there Corey that we're excited about.
So it's really -- it's management and we're managing we're controlling the things that we can control.
And we think that by doing that even in this somewhat down-market for all of higher ed public sector private sector independent we can control our destiny and narrow these rates of decline and then get it to flat and then start to grow again.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And then just one quick one on the costs side and Tim you were really helpful with kind of describing how much of the costs were deferred versus taken out.
When you look at the $60 million for the full year now how much is that just an exhilaration of getting some costs earlier than you expected? And how much is it by the end of the year the full run rate is now higher than you would have thought? And what -- at the end of the year what would you expect the annualized number to be? Yes.
Good question Corey.
The $2 million is kind of above and beyond.
So when you think about that $2 million a quarter going forward we think initially our prior thought we'd exit the year at about a $60 million run rate.
We now think we exit the year at a $70 million run rate give or take.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Condra for BMO.
I just wanted to return to the Carrington start dates really quick.
I know that -- not to split hairs here but when you talked about 6 start dates in this first quarter did that compare to 6 start dates then in the first quarter of 2012 and that that was going to be the same amount in each quarter? No.
Because we're -- haven't fully anniversary-ed the new calendar for both of the educational institutions.
And also when we say 6 start dates for the first quarter I want to keep in mind when we speak to Carrington we talk about a Carrington colleges group but there's 2 specific colleges: Carrington College and Carrington Colleges California.
So those -- each institutions had 3 each in the first quarter.
And there's a little bit of shifting based on holidays et cetera which is why you see a dip in the second quarter going into the third.
Okay.
So maybe just each year you kind of update us on what those start dates are going to look like for the ensuing or upcoming year that kind of thing? Sure.
We can do that.
Okay.
No all right.
That's great.
And then also just on the scholarships is that all in the -- for the DeVry University? Or what's the scholarships like in the medical health care or other schools? So the scholarship range that we provided fourth quarter and we've given a little more guidance here speaks to the DeVry Inc.
enterprise institution.
But the largest within that by a large large measure is DeVry University.
Got you.
So for example at Carrington there are some scholarships available or Chamberlain? Yes.
It is okay.
And then what are some of the programs in Carrington too? Just you had such a strong start growth there so maybe just a little bit about what programs students are really focusing in on? And that's it.
Sure.
Mainly allied health ancillary care programs: so nursing medical assisting surgical tech respiratory care therapy physical therapy assistant.
We also have a wonderful vet tech program and it's nice that we have a doctor of veterinary medicine program at Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine and you got a vet tech program at Carrington.
So there are non-health care programs as well in business and in tech and programming but the bulk of it here was led by the health care programs.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Meuler for Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I guess could you guys just talk a little bit more about what drove the acceleration and starts at Chamberlain and how much of it was openings especially Atlanta since you said that was the largest location for you guys? Sure absolutely.
Chamberlain is just doing so well and serving its students so well.
And the outcomes are phenomenal and it's really leading to a very strong reputation.
It's amazing.
Even though Chamberlain is over 120 years old it's closing in on 125 the name Chamberlain is only maybe 5-ish years old because it was Deaconess College of Nursing before that.
So in just those few years we've really built the Chamberlain name and reputation and brand if you will.
And I think that's helping a lot.
The other thing I would say is health care development specialists this is something that we've initiated over the last couple of years but really getting traction this year.
These are folks who are professionals who work for Chamberlain College of Nursing and go out to hospitals and educate the chief nursing officer and their staff on the educational opportunities at Chamberlain in our RN to BSN programs.
So those nurses who've -- maybe have an RN but don't have a bachelors a BSN; and also our programs in the master's degree area the MSN Masters of Science in Nursing; and then soon pending approvals the doctoral level programs that we'll have at Chamberlain.
And so that initiative has helped a lot.
So overall the conversion rates are up quite nicely at Chamberlain and we're looking forward to more growth there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at DeVry Brasil in terms of the 2% starts growth is that an organic number? And if there was slowing can you just talk what drove it if it's a capacity issue like you've had in the Caribbean med schools at times or what else would be driving that? A couple of thoughts there and then you may want to -- Pat may want to get in on this too.
There is a little bit of capacity constraint there in some programs.
Some of the programs have caps on them from the Ministry of Education there in Brazil.
And those caps can and do go up periodically and you have to apply for that and it's a process you work your way through.
So we are turning people away particularly in engineering programs right now.
There's a huge demand for engineering with all the infrastructure growth in Brazil.
So those are some of the programs where -- and so while -- when we're in those positions we certainly use those opportunities to be more selective and improve if you will the quality of the class.
And any other color that you would add on that Pat? Just a little bit more color there just to keep in mind.
In Brazil the start of the September session or the session is their kind of their off cycle compared to the United States.
So there the typical enrollment -- big enrollment period for them is in January.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell for William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones on DVU should we expect any new capacity additions this year or maybe you're looking out the next couple of years or is it more just about filling in what you have given the population dynamics? Sure.
Brandon and it's funny how you always seem to be towards the end of the call I don't know why that is.
You're like -- you're the anchor.
Look at the bright side you're like the anchor guy.
Everyone's waiting around.
No I mean everyone's waiting around to hear what Brandon has to ask.
So yes I think -- look we see a number of markets actually quite a hefty percentage on the base long term that we think is the opportunity for DeVry University to continue to grow.
So in other words we don't think DeVry University is saturated in the United States.
We think there's a good percentage yet to go to achieve full potential.
It's just that in this current environment we feel it's more prudent to pull back a little bit and consolidate where we are just given the current near-term performance but that's not a reflection on our analysis.
And we've recently had that looked at from a third party as well to give us what is -- what's your view of our sort of full potential geographic opportunity.
So yes there is 1 new campus for DeVry university slated for this year so just 1.
In past years we were more in the 4 or 5 maybe 4 to 6 range per year.
Nice steady.
We don't feel like we overbuilt the footprint.
So I don't think there's going to be a -- we wouldn't expect a massive retrenchment if that's part of the question just in case.
But we are looking at opportunities to be -- do real estate optimization if we can.
Brandon it's Tim.
Be sure to get by our expansion on our Chicago campus.
We have a beautiful new building under construction there that it will support both DeVry University and Chamberlain.
Research Division</strong> I'll wait until it starts snowing here which is probably in like 3 days from now and then off I go check it out.
Then persistence within DVU maybe with kind of with and without the impact of graduations as -- obviously as we see it externally when would you guys expect to see maybe a tailwind to start form a persistence point of view? Or I guess alternatively the negative headwind from graduations being higher than previous years to kind of fade away? Sure.
We are -- we've -- we're a little bit soft on persistence in this time period and that's following sort of off of historical peak.
So we had invested a lot in student services our Student Central initiative and so forth and in many other academic initiatives to help improve persistence.
And now we're taking a little bit of a pause here.
But long term we do have plans and expect that to go back up.
I would say that right now the economy impacts persistence as it also does new student enrollments a little bit and so that's probably the biggest driver.
And I think that's the color that I can give on persistence right now.
Research Division</strong> And in a similar fashion at Carrington given the nice recovery and starts there it may be too early to tell what the persistence of those students that are -- they're kind of turn their corner but any actual evidence of how those students are sticking around yet? Yes.
Persistence is a little bit up at Carrington so we're pleased with that.
And remember they're much shorter programs typically 9 or 10 months certificate or a 2-year associate degree so -- but yes up a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Trace Urdan for Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Daniel I wonder if you could talk about during the period of pressure in the undergraduate enrollment and now that it seems to be perking up a bit has there been any variability between demand for the tech programs versus the business programs there? And then specifically maybe if you could comment on that whether there's any difference with the traditional 18- to 22-year-old students versus the working adult student? Sure.
Yes this period -- I wouldn't give -- I'll give you the data point that I have but I would caution not to get too excited about it because it's just one data point the September session and these things do move around a little bit.
So I cannot claim that it's a trend or say that it's a trend.
But we did see a little bit better performance not just within -- it is a negative new student result even though that negative narrowed it is negative.
But I would just raise that there's no such thing as good when it's negative.
So I just have a hard time talking about [indiscernible].
LLC Research Division</strong> We will take less bad these days.
Less bad is good.
Yes I know.
Less bad is good but I just -- I don't know my upbringing doesn't let me go there.
But the tech programs were less bad than the business programs at DeVry University undergraduate.
So they were a little bit better.
So that's engineering technology computer science.
And also we do have health care health care technology programs at DeVry University.
And a couple of those programs are a little more -- are new newer and so they're actually growing so those are positive numbers.
And so that's doing a little bit better than the business as well.
In terms of the traditional college-age student 18- to 22-year-old coming straight out of high school we've been a little bit disappointed there over the last year.
And so yes that disappointment continues.
One piece of color on that is to remember that here this fall we're still feeling the effect of the changes that we put in place in our recruiting process a year ago.
Because you were out in the high schools back last August last September and so forth.
And then you're working with those students throughout the school year and then some of those are coming here in -- even now into the fall.
So hopefully this forms the low point of that trend and then we can go from there.
Okay.
Well with that I'd like to thank everyone for your questions and remind us that our next quarterly results call is scheduled for February 6 when we announce second quarter fiscal '13 results.
So thank you all for your continued support of DeVry.
And we'll talk to you soon.
Thanks.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fiscal 2013 Second Quarter DeVry Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keith and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
And with that I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director Investor and Media Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Keith and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor statement.
This call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
Please consult our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until March 5.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for more information.
I'm sure you noticed we pushed our call back 30 minutes from the time we normally started.
We did this in response to the feedback we've received from you so we appreciate these suggestions and ask that you keep them coming.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
I'll begin with an overview and then I'll follow -- ask Tim to -- and Pat to follow up on that with the financial results and then I'll wrap it up.
And as you saw in today's results release we made progress executing on our performance improvement plan this quarter.
While revenues were down modestly year-over-year operating expenses including discrete items were lower both sequentially and versus prior year especially at our institutions in transition.
The decline was driven by our operational excellence initiatives the deferral of advertising expenses for the second half of the year and by costs that vary directly with enrollment levels.
So let me update you on our progress with the performance improvement plan.
As a quick reminder the plan has 3 priorities: aligning our cost structure with enrollment levels; regaining enrollment growth; and making targeted investments to drive future growth.
Now first aligning our cost structure.
We continue to see our efforts here paying off.
During the quarter we generated real estate savings by consolidating our Wood Dale Illinois operations to other nearby locations and I'm very proud of the team's execution on this relocation.
And I think it's a strong example of the sense of urgency that we have because this effort was conceived planned and executed in a very short period of time.
And we're continuing to review other properties to further optimize our locations.
Tim will discuss that in a few minutes.
We're also optimizing our course scheduling at DeVry University to improve class size and course option.
These changes will reduce costs while maintaining academic quality.
We've also consolidated Becker's customer service operations with DeVry Online Services expanding service coverage while reducing costs.
So all these actions and others are designed to create a leaner cost structure.
Last quarter we increased our goal for efficiencies and value creation for the year to at least $60 million.
Well we now believe we can generate at least $80 million from efficiencies for fiscal 2013.
As a result we expect our total expenses to be down from the prior year.
Now moving to the second priority in our plan regaining enrollment growth.
At DeVry University the November session was impacted by continued cyclical weakness adjustments following our workforce reductions and Hurricane Sandy didn't help.
We did see an improvement in new student recruiting sequentially from the November to January session and we're encouraged by the improving trends.
Conversion rates are up.
Start rates are up.
We saw a new student enrollment growth at 21 of our 49 campus metros in January and our graduate employment results at DeVry University are also improving.
And so we're making solid progress but it's coming slower than we'd like.
Based on what we're seeing now I'd say it's much less likely that we'll see growth in new enrollment at DeVry University in the second half of this fiscal year.
At Keller Graduate School of Management we also experienced declines in enrollment during the quarter.
According to Bloomberg Businessweek many business schools are experiencing declines in applications.
Some of the most prestigious public and independent schools are down substantially.
Yale School of Management down 9.5%; Michigan State Broad College of Business down 18%; and Indiana University's Kelley School of Business down 21%.
So those programs aren't immune and neither is Keller.
However I think it's important to note that this is not a seminal issue for DeVry University or even private sector institutions but a cyclical issue across higher education.
All private sector colleges and universities are down.
According to the National Student Clearinghouse for the first time in a generation enrollments declined across the entire higher education system in 2012 across the United States.
Most telling even community colleges inexpensive and taxpayer subsidized as they are were down 3.1%.
A Moody's study noted that prospective students are hesitant to commit to pursuing a degree and that the perception of the value of a diploma seems to be in question.
Well anytime someone says "College isn't worth it anymore " I always respond "Well do you have kids?" "Yes." "Okay.
Which one of them are you going to advise not to go to college?" We know there are millions of jobs going unfilled because of the skills gap.
According to the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce 2/3 of all jobs today require a college degree and that's up for 1/3 30 years ago.
The fact is that the return on educational investment of a college degree remains very strong.
The Census Bureau reports that the difference in lifetime earnings between a college and a high school graduate is $1 million.
Another study by Georgetown University takes that a step further.
In comparing bachelor's and high school graduates the college grads steadily gained jobs even during this recent recession.
All those without a degree were the worst hit.
The study reports that since 2010 more than 2 million jobs have been gained by those with a bachelor's degree or higher.
And studies like these demonstrate that the return on educational investment remains very high especially in the high-demand fields in which our institutions participate.
We think prospective students and families know this too but right now many are waiting just not sure if this is the right time to commit to college.
This leads us to believe that there may be pent-up demand building to be released as the economy improves.
But in the meantime one question you may have is do we have to wait for the cycle to come back before we can grow? And the answer is no.
We can compete and we can grow and we have a plan to do that.
And Carrington and Chamberlain are Exhibits A and B here.
At Carrington we're pleased to say that our turnaround plan continues to make significant progress.
New student enrollment was up nearly 13% in the quarter.
Improvements to our processes and our recruiting efforts are driving higher-quality inquiries and higher conversion rates.
In December we implemented new elements of our branding campaign for Carrington and is gaining momentum.
We've refined our messaging and how we reach prospective students using local and network television and social media.
While it's still early these efforts are increasing awareness of Carrington's value proposition and of course that includes the individual attention and career focus that we provide our students.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing new student enrollments grew 88% in the January session.
Now enrollment was positively impacted by a change to the academic calendar that increased the number of enrollment periods for campus-based students in this fiscal year.
There were no campus-based new student enrollments in the January session of last year.
Excluding the extra intake the growth rate would have been a little less than 50%.
Growth was driven by record enrollment in our RN to BSN and MSN degree programs.
And so at Carrington and Chamberlain we're making good progress.
We still have some work to do with DeVry University.
When you take it as a whole new enrollment across the DeVry education group was up over 5%.
And now our third priority is making targeted investments to drive growth and diversification.
During the quarter Chamberlain began offering 2 new certificate programs in nursing education and informatics for nurses already holding a Masters of Science in Nursing.
And we recently received approval from the Higher Learning Commission for a Doctor of Nursing Practice or DNP degree program and that's set to begin in May.
We're very excited to offer our first doctoral level nursing program at Chamberlain and believe it will only add to Chamberlain's reputation for quality.
We're also selectively investing in new campuses.
We opened 2 new Chamberlain locations in the quarter Indianapolis and Cleveland.
We recently received HLC approval for a new campus in Tinley Park Illinois and that will be our third Chamberlain location in the Chicago area scheduled to open in May.
And 2 major capacity expansions remain on track one at the Chicago campus for DeVry University and Chamberlain and the other our expansion of the American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine campus in St.
Maarten.
Strategic investments and acquisitions are also on track.
The integration of our 2 most recent acquisitions in Brazil continue to exceed our expectation namely Faculdade Boa Viagem or FBV and Faculdade do Vale do Ipojuca or FAVIP.
These institutions have strong management teams and an exceptional reputation for quality.
We're building on strong foundations in Brazil executing on our integration plan and sharing best practices across our institutions.
And so we're pleased with our progress in all 3 priorities of the performance improvement plan.
At the same time we know we have much work left to be done.
We've been asked lately about competition so we wanted to speak to that.
While competition is increasing of course I don't know any industries where that's not the case we wouldn't cite it as the biggest factor affecting our enrollments.
We believe the #1 cause of that has been United States' prolonged economic weakness and resulting consumer sentiment.
Our own data illustrate the limited impact competition has had on those who enroll in our programs.
We surveyed those who inquire with DeVry University but don't enroll and we asked them where they went.
In the past about 60% of them didn't enroll in any university.
And now with increased competition with stealing students away you'd expect that number to go down but it's actually up to 80%.
So we don't have perfect information but this indicate -- I'd say this data indicates the issue's much more the prospective students are hesitating to enroll at all.
One particular segment of competition people have asked about is MOOCs massive open online courses.
Today they offer self-paced nondegree courses for free but without a professor without academic support without student services and without career services.
They seem to cater to students who are already pretty well-prepared academically and who are looking for an efficient approach to learn certain subjects.
They don't provide the structure necessary to serve our target segment of students who seek career-oriented degree programs.
So while higher education as a whole has been going through a cycle of lower enrollment let me paraphrase a statement from an analyst on a recent conference call who said "We believe the sector is best examined name by name not by the sector overall." And this is where DeVry's differentiated model of quality plus diversification sets us apart.
Over the past decade we've diversified into high-demand fields like health care which now accounts for about 1/3 of our current revenue and has grown 8% year-to-date.
Our country is in desperate need of physicians and nurses.
Last year we graduated more than 1 000 doctors nearly 5 000 nurses.
Most of whom will serve in primary care where the need is greatest.
At the same time we continue to expand in high-growth markets including Brazil where we currently serve 27 000 students across 5 cities in Northeastern Brazil.
DeVry Brasil has grown more than 50% this fiscal year.
That's diversification.
And when we talk about quality the best measure is successful student outcomes.
In 2012 94% of the graduates from Chamberlain's BSN campus programs systemwide passed the National Council Licensure Exam or the NCLEX.
Some of our campuses were at 100%.
We also view our corporate partnerships through our Keller Center for Corporate Learning as a marker of quality and a valuable competitive advantage.
In fact we've seen a 21% increase in enrollments from this channel this fiscal year.
Recently we have signed an agreement with Rite Aid and we have renewed our agreement with Walmart.
We provide educational programs to their employees.
These major retailers understand that investing in their employees improves their productivity and retention.
They have selected DeVry because we can provide a wide range of programs across our institutions flexible delivery option and because of our reputation for quality education.
Our partnerships extend to world-class health care organizations.
Ross University School of Medicine recently expanded its affiliation with the Cleveland Clinic.
Ross medical students have the option of completing internal medicine and surgery training at the Cleveland Clinic's teaching hospital near Miami.
Chamberlain is also expanding our partnerships.
Last quarter I mentioned Chamberlain's partnership with the National League of Nursing the NLN.
This quarter Chamberlain partnered with Sigma Theta Tau International.
That's the Honor Society of Nursing and we've established the Sigma Theta Tau International and Chamberlain College of Nursing Center for Excellence in Nursing Education.
The people running the center will have really long business cards but let me tell you they won't mind because they get to provide career and leadership development for nurse educators and to promote nursing education globally.
So quality plus diversification equals growth.
That's DeVry's formula for creating value.
And quality plus diversification distinguishes us from many others in higher education.
And so with that overview let me turn it over to Tim for a discussion of the financial results.
Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I walk through the enrollment and financial results in detail let me start by commenting on our cost reduction efforts.
At the end of last fiscal year we committed to $50 million in cost reductions for fiscal 2013 then in the first quarter we announced an increase to $60 million in reductions.
We've been hard at work focusing on increasing efficiencies and creating value throughout the entire organization.
And so I'm pleased to say we've now increased our target to at least $80 million of total savings to be delivered this year at our institutions in transition.
Total costs and expenses for these institutions were $1.18 billion in fiscal 2012.
So this means these costs should be $1.1 billion or less this year or about a 7% decrease.
The cost savings are being driven by structural changes made to these institutions like revisions to staffing models course scheduling and eBooks.
They are also being impacted by costs that vary directly with enrollments like adjunct faculty bad debt and books in light of lower enrollments at DeVry University.
In the second quarter total costs came in below our plan as a result of tight control and the deferral of some expenses into the third quarter.
One key area of deferral was advertising which was down nearly $7 million sequentially due to market conditions efficient use of resources and the availability of quality inquiries.
Looking to the third quarter we now expect total costs and expenses to be up sequentially about 3% to 4%.
The biggest driver is expected to be advertising spending for the third quarter which should be more in line with first quarter levels.
We also anticipate higher seasonal spending due to seating 2 sessions in the quarter versus just one in the second quarter and increased spending related to new campus openings.
Turning to enrollments.
At Carrington new and total student enrollments grew this quarter.
New enrollments were up nearly 13% with total enrollments up slightly for the first time since the downturn.
The Carrington team has worked hard to refocus the brand reorganize the admissions function to better serve students and build upon its leadership position in allied health care education.
Chamberlain Ross and AUC continue to experience enrollment growth as the need for nurses physicians and veterinarians in the U.S.
remains high.
Ross and AUC posted single-digit total enrollment growth in line with our long-term expectations.
So you can see that the new investments we've made over the last few years are paying off.
So our growth institutions continue to meet or exceed our expectations for enrollments and we can now call the turn on Carrington new students.
At DeVry University while we don't expect to see new undergraduate student growth during the second half of this fiscal year we're encouraged by what we're seeing in terms of conversions and start rates.
It's the inquiries at the top of the funnel which continue to be challenging.
So with that context second quarter total revenues were $505 million down about 4% versus the prior year.
Year-to-date revenues were $998 million down 5%.
In the second quarter revenues for our institutions that are in transition DeVry University Carrington and Advanced Academics were $321 million down about 13% versus the prior year.
This was partially offset by our growing institutions where revenues increased 18% to $184 million.
That was fueled in part by the acquisitions of Falcon FBV and FAVIP as well as expansion at Chamberlain.
Excluding the restructuring charge this year and the impairment charge last year total operating costs and expenses for the quarter of $430 million declined 1% compared to last year.
For the 6-month period expenses were $867 million down about 1% from $874 million last year.
During the second quarter total costs excluding discrete items at our institutions in transition were down nearly 9% or $29 million versus a year-ago quarter as a result of our continued cost management.
During the quarter we consolidated 3 facilities: an administrative office facility in Wood Dale Illinois; as well as facilities at Carrington College and DeVry University.
We expect savings of approximately $3 million annually from these consolidations.
We also incurred a $5.9 million after-tax restructuring charge during the quarter related to these consolidations.
Total costs excluding discrete items at our growing institutions increased 17% which was less than revenue growth and consistent with our plans for continued growth at Chamberlain and DeVry Brasil.
Cost of educational services increased by 1% during the quarter.
Costs were down at our institutions in transition by 8% year-over-year and this was offset by a 21% increase in costs at our growing institutions driven by our recent acquisitions and expansion at Chamberlain.
Student services and administrative expense declined nearly 4% as compared with the prior year.
Costs at our institutions in transition were down 10% largely reflecting our cost reduction initiatives.
Costs at our other institutions increased 7% which was more than offset by our cost reductions.
Reported net income was approximately $50 million for the quarter and $82 million year-to-date.
Earnings per share was $0.78 this quarter and $1.27  year-to-date.
Second quarter net income of $56 million was down 10% versus prior year and earnings per share of $0.87 was down 5%.
This is excluding the restructuring charge in the current year and the impairment charges and gain on sale of assets in the prior period.
We provided a reconciliation of these earnings results in today's release.
Our effective tax rate was 21.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 and that compares with 28.1% for the full year fiscal 2012.
The lower tax rate in the second quarter was due to lower mix of domestic source income expected this year so please keep DeVry's international diversification in mind as you build your models.
We expect that our effective income tax rate for operations for fiscal 2013 will be in the 23% to 24% range in the third quarter and slightly higher in the fourth.
With that overview let's shift to our operating segment results which are further detailed in our release.
Starting with the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was down 14% during the quarter versus prior year and a little less than 15% year-to-date.
DeVry University undergraduate revenue per student was flat in the second quarter compared with the prior year.
Excluding the restructuring charge total segment expenses for the second quarter decreased 10% as compared with the year-ago period and 8% for the 6-month period demonstrating our continued progress on cost reductions.
Segment earnings excluding discrete items were $39 million in the quarter down just over 32% versus the last year driven by revenue decline and resulting margin compression.
For the 6 months segment earnings were down just over 46%.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up more than 9%.
Growth at Chamberlain is being driven by the 4 new locations added over the last 1.5 years in Miramar Houston Atlanta and Indianapolis combined with increased enrollment at our existing locations and online.
The addition of the new Cleveland and Tinley Park locations will help sustain Chamberlain's growth in the coming years.
At DeVry Medical International we continue to invest in the Ross medical and veterinary campuses and construction of the new AUC facility remains on track to open in September.
Excluding discrete items in both the current and prior years earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter of $28 million increased nearly 22% from the prior year.
Finally revenue with the International K-12 and Professional Education segment increased 27% in the quarter and 23% year-to-date.
Revenue grew 6% at Becker driven by the acquisition of Falcon Physician Reviews in April of 2012 and demand for the new course materials Becker issued for the 2013 CPA exam.
At DeVry Brasil revenues increased 69% this quarter.
More than 12% of that increase was through organic growth with the remainder driven by recent acquisitions of FBV and FAVIP.
We remain on track for $90 million of revenues from Brazil this year and we continue to explore numerous growth opportunities in that country both through organic expansion into new programs and locations as well as through acquisitions.
The segment's earnings increased 37% during the quarter versus the prior year by increased operating leverage within DeVry Brasil and Becker.
Turning to the outlook for the third quarter.
We expect operating expenses to be up sequentially driven by new locations at our growth institutions as well as the realization of certain deferred expenses from the first half.
However we expect total costs will decrease for the full year versus a year ago driven by total costs -- driven by cost decreases at institutions in transition.
We'll continue to execute on our performance improvement plan to generate at least $80 million in operating expense savings at our institutions in transition that we've committed to for the full year.
We anticipate Carrington will experience positive new student enrollment growth in the second half of the year at a rate similar to that achieved in the first quarter.
I'll close by addressing the question I've been asked lately.
What are our expectations for tuition pricing in the near term? The answer is tuition varies by institution.
At DeVry University and Carrington we expect tuition to be flat with this year's rate.
At Chamberlain we anticipate a slight increase while at Ross AUC and DeVry Brasil we'll see increases in the 5% to 6% range.
We also consider the awarding of scholarships in our determination of tuition levels.
We continue to expect scholarships to be in the low $50 million range this year up from about $42 million last year.
The way we like to think about it is tuition should reflect the return on educational investments graduates can expect to receive throughout their careers.
For example we know employers including 95 of the Fortune 100 place a great value in a degree from a DeVry institution because they regularly hire our graduates.
We know that the highest rates of job growth in the coming years are in the health care and technology sectors -- areas where we have high-quality institutions and programs.
We also know that our students can reduce their investment by completing a 4-year degree in 3 years.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Well thanks Tim and good afternoon everyone.
Our liquidity and financial position continue to remain solid.
Cash flow from operations for the first half was $180 million versus $219 million last year reflecting our lower earnings the cash and marketable securities balance of $219 million at the end of the quarter compared to $288 million last year and we continue to remain debt-free.
Our cash and marketable securities balance is lower than last year reflecting investments for acquisitions.
Our net accounts receivable balance was about $140 million versus $145 million last year.
The lower accounts receivable balance was a result of decreased revenues and our continued focus on collections management.
Our bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with year-to-date bad debt expense down to 2.1% of revenue as compared to 2.3% last year an indicator of the value proposition of our programs and our teams' disciplined execution in this area even during these tough economic times.
Capital spending for the first half was $48 million versus $63 million spent last year.
Our capital spending was down driven by our strong focus on capital deployment and a delay in spending on a couple of projects.
Current year spending focuses on expansion within our Chamberlain College of Nursing Ross University School of Medicine and the American University of the Caribbean.
We expect total capital spending for the fiscal year to be in the $130 million to $140 million range as we reinvest our earnings in academic quality and targeted growth initiatives.
Now during the quarter we repurchased about 539 000 shares of our common stock for about $12.8 million or an average of about $23.84 per share.
We completed our seventh $100 million program and began executing our eighth $100 million program in November.
So we remain committed to a solid balance sheet with strong financial flexibility to reinvest in quality and growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
We look forward to your questions.
And just before we open up the line let me address some concerns we've heard about the regulatory environment and accreditation and some of DeVry's points of distinction.
We understand there's a concern about gainful employment and will that come back and so forth.
Well under what was previously proposed none of DeVry's programs failed the tests.
We remain confident in the strong value propositions of our programs.
Second concern we've read about lately is recourse on private loans.
Across DeVry's institutions private loans are a small percentage of our students' total financing maybe 2% and loans where we shared default risk are a very small percentage of those.
So we have minimal exposure to this issue.
Another concern people have asked about is accreditation.
As you're aware the Higher Learning Commission the HLC accredits DeVry University and Chamberlain College of Nursing.
Chamberlain has recently been through reviews by HLC as part of the approval process in our new programs and campuses.
HLC commended Chamberlain on the quality of our programs.
DeVry University recently completed its visit with the HLC.
And while we're awaiting the final report the visit seemed to go well and the visiting team was complementary.
Also Ross University School of Medicine recently received 5-year reaccreditation from its accreditor the Dominica Medical Board.
So it's always great to hear when accrediting bodies acknowledge our commitment to quality.
Looking ahead in the regulatory front most people think it's unlikely for the HEA reauthorization to get done this year.
We agree with that and we're using this time to have proactive dialogues with policymakers and other thought leaders.
We continue to advocate that strong regulation is necessary in order to protect taxpayer and consumer interest.
We believe regulation must be based on 2 pillars: outcomes-based metrics and standards of professional practice such as strong disclosure and transparency for students.
And this system of accountability must apply to all institutions one set of rules for public sector private sector and independent colleges.
Getting this regulation right is important both to hold colleges accountable and to lay a framework that supports strong institutions.
We need strong public and private institutions to meet the need and the need is growing.
The Department of Education recently published its projections of education statistics for the next 10 years.
And the report not only projected long-term enrollment growth it noted that the share of adult students is expected to grow in the coming years.
Likewise the shares of black Hispanic and female students are expected to increase.
I shared this with someone the other day and they said "Demographics is destiny." These are student segments DeVry institutions serve very well and this forecast contributes to our confidence in our ability to grow over the long term.
And so to wrap up we continue to execute in our performance improvement plan making solid progress in the second quarter.
There's more work to do as we look to further narrow the decline at DeVry University and to sustain our momentum at Carrington.
Our focus on quality and diversification is helping us as we work through the cyclical weakness and gives us confidence in DeVry's long-term performance prospects.
Joan? We do have a number of callers in the queue.
[Operator Instructions] So with that I'm going to ask Keith to give our participants the instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A housekeeping question really.
Given the new disclosure on enrollments the recent disclosure enrollments could you just walk us through different segments and talk about seasonality as well as the differences in the number of starts between the year-ago period and upcoming quarters? Sure Jeff this is Pat.
I'll take that question.
As it relates to DeVry University both the undergraduate and graduate programs we have 6 sessions per year.
Those sessions start in July September November January March and May.
And there's really no in terms of year-over-year comparisons that's pretty much lockstep.
For our Chamberlain College of Nursing this year for the on-site students those students pursuing a baccalaureate science degree in nursing we had 4 new start periods instead of a typical 3 and we're doing that to better align our calendar with other traditional schools.
So we had a start in January which we normally wouldn't have had.
And then going forward we would have normally had a start in March for the on-site students but that start has been shifted back to May.
And then going forward for Chamberlain College of Nursing again just for the BSN students the on-sites we'll have new student enrollment periods in May September and January.
And then of course our online programs at Chamberlain both the RN to BSN and the MSN have the 6 session starts very similar to DeVry University.
So I hope that helps.
And then of course our DeVry Medical International that is unchanged.
Those new enrollment periods are September January May.
And then Carrington student starts there's basically 6 session intakes a year.
And we did have a little bit of seasonality with those starts and I can give you the number of start periods.
One moment here.
I'll follow up with you in our scheduled call later on that one.
Your next question is from the line of Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned 21 schools saw positive start growth.
I think it was for DeVry University.
Any distinctive characteristics around those schools geography or particular program mix that might help explain where the growth is coming from? Right.
Those are -- Sara those are metros and I would say not a lot.
It's really -- as a manager you sort of appreciate the differences with local management sometimes.
A little bit of strength in California I would say.
I think that's one area that the public sector colleges are a little bit constrained and students tell us that they're not able to get a full schedule all the time.
And of course they can get full schedule both on-site and online at DeVry University and graduate and many students do graduate in 3 years let alone 4 or 5 or even 6 sometimes at other places.
So I think that's probably the difference.
What's encouraging to us is sort of at the beginning of the downturn everything was down.
And now as a manager you start to see things starting to come up in different areas.
And you can start to share best practices and what are you doing here and what are you doing there that's working.
And so that's actually a higher number of metros that are up here than I was able to report last quarter.
So we're encouraged by the trend.
We're not satisfied with where we are.
Clearly we hoped to be a little better by now.
So that's where we are with DeVry University new student enrollment.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the cost side any chance you could help quantify how much you think costs will be down on a year-over-year basis for the full year.
And maybe help us understand what the run rate is into fiscal 2014 given that it sounds like you're actually getting $80 million in '13 as opposed to that being a run rate.
Right.
So it's Tim.
Sara a couple of thoughts there.
One that initially as we looked at the year we expected the $50 million of cost reduction in the institutions in transition and that costs would be up at the growth institutions supporting the growth so that we'd have a net increase.
It's now based on our current view at $80 million of savings down slightly not a lot but we continue to work.
We did see by the way some cost reductions at some of those institutions that are growing just based on this overall belt-tightening that we're working on.
So as we exit the year we're going to have a run rate a little north of $80 million at this point but we're not done here.
We have the second phase of our operational excellence programs that are focusing on more of these midterm structural issues.
We'll continue to look at our real estate footprint.
And then we have yet a third wave of those that are longer-term in terms of deeper operational efficiencies that we continue to look at.
Your next question is from the line of Kelly Flynn with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Question relates to DeVry undergrad starts.
I'm hoping you can give us a little more color on what you might be expecting for the March session and then you said a couple of times you don't expect them to grow for the year.
I'm wondering what gives you pause on that given that you saw such a nice improvement in January.
And then I have one follow-up.
Okay.
Yes I just -- I'm not saying it's impossible.
We just think it's a little less likely that we'll see new students turn to positive during the back half of this fiscal year.
And we've talked about that before so I thought that was important to share that.
We're encouraged on the positive side by conversion rates up start rates up I mentioned like the 21 metros.
So everything that's happening inside the institution including the graduate employment rates are strong too is good.
It's overall inquiries sort of at the top that's the main issue.
And for example we saw Google inquiries for all of education down 7%.
So it's just the general -- it's the top of the funnel which is really driven more by the consumer sentiment that's out there that's affecting really all of higher ed not -- and take DeVry out of it take even the private sector out of it you just look at all of higher ed even community college is down a little bit.
That's why I just want to sound a note of caution we don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
Research Division</strong> What about for March? I mean do you expect it to be down at a slightly less -- a lesser rate if you will or maybe similar rate? At this point I'm not prepared to give sort of a number on that but just x sort of overall sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I had a question about revenue per student for DeVry University.
I think you said it was flat year-over-year based on your calculation.
I was wondering if you could give us a little help on what to expect for that for the remainder of the year.
And also why is it not worse given some of the scholarships? I think you had last time said you expect to be down a little bit.
Okay.
Why is it not worse right? Research Division</strong> Yes I mean it's good but I'm saying what's helping out there? Okay.
Pat? Good question Kelly.
This is Pat.
For DeVry undergrad as you had pointed our -- as we had said our revenue per student was flat year-over-year driven by a couple of things.
So we had an increase in average course load year-over-year and that pretty much offset our increase in scholarships as well as the other behavior we saw based on the change of our pricing structure.
Now as we move forward into the second half of the year we would expect our revenue per student at least from a sequential basis to decrease and likely be down versus the prior year as well.
Your next question is from the line of Bob Craig with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering where you think we are in the spectrum of cost savings.
Obviously going from $50 million to $80 million a huge jump.
How much of the heavy lifting has already been done? And what I'm trying to get at here is what might some of the carryover be in the fiscal '14 on an incremental basis? Well Bob one of the things that I guess is kind of a 2-edged sword is one of the reasons that our cost savings increased is that we're seeing enrollments that are softer than we expected at DeVry University.
So we continue to execute on these more structural elements but as I mentioned some of the variable costs impacted us as well.
But we've set a multiyear objective here to have our cost increases the biggest installment we thought would be this year but we have expectations that continue to drive meaningful savings in the following 2 years.
And we're working under those assumptions and we don't see anything based on the work we're doing that won't allow us to continue to drive some of these structural changes like real estate for example.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And this is a follow-up.
I think Daniel you might have mentioned last quarter you're looking at potentially doing some other things or increasing the level of scholarships.
Where are you in terms of that investigation? And could we see some action later on in the year? Yes I think our scholarships are up over the prior year but in line with our expectation.
And we are conducting a very careful scholarship test at DeVry University.
And so that analysis is ongoing.
So I'm not able to give you a future expectation yet.
I just want to emphasize that rather than just roll something out as important as that DeVry has a very strong culture of test and control to make sure we really understand the implications before we roll it out.
So it takes a little longer but in the long run that's always served us very very well.
Your next question is from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Zach Fadem for Gary.
Can you tell us or give us some information about how your completions and job placements are going at Chamberlain? And I ask for a couple of reasons.
You've seen such rapid growth there and you should be having some -- quite a few grads by now.
And we've seen some negative reports -- or not negative reports but just reports that's showing that new nursing school grads are having a more difficult time securing employment.
So curious if you could comment on that.
Sure.
Our nursing graduates are doing very well.
I don't have specific figures for you but they are doing very well.
They are getting jobs.
I'm quite comfortable about that.
May not always get the first choice job but they're getting positions in nursing.
And sometimes you have to work for a year or something to get the shift you want or the hospital you want or the department you want that kind of thing.
I know what you're talking about.
We've seen those kinds of stories all the time.
You tend to see those every economic cycle as the economy weakens.
Historically it's been the case that more nurses who may have left the workforce reenter the workforce perhaps in some cases a spouse who lost her job or they up their hours.
So maybe their hours had been part-time they take it to full-time that kind of thing.
And therefore you always get articles that say "Oh there's no more nursing shortage anymore." And then what traditionally has always happened is many of the nursing schools sort of back up and say "Oh there's no more shortage " which could sort of add to the cyclicality of this very issue.
And that's one of the reasons we have a nursing shortage in the country.
And at the same time last data I have is 100 000 qualified applicants turned away from the nation's nursing schools and that's one reason that we think it's important that we add capacity that help do our part to solve that shortage.
And I'm glad to say that we do that without the taxpayers funding into that capital expenditure.
So it's a great deal for the taxpayers it's a great deal for the student and it's a formula that's working very well at Chamberlain right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up question.
Can you tell us a little bit about how your new tiered pricing structure is having an impact at DeVry University and whether you think that it will help you drive new student growth at some point? Not a big change there.
And so I wouldn't set any expectations around driving a lot of growth.
So it helps to encourage students to enroll full-time and it's actually having that effect.
As Pat mentioned we have a little bit higher courses per student which is good that's what we want to see.
And it helps incent the student to keep going and accelerate the pace of completing their degree.
So that's more the impact that I think it has.
Your next question is from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I understand obviously the cyclical factors in terms of job market being a factor for people not willing to sign on the dotted line and take on the next stage of their growth.
And we all obviously think the call it value of a college degree is certainly worth the tuition for most of the schools out there.
But I want to push back a little bit on the fact that it seems like everybody is also very adverse to debt right now and I think that's a risk factor.
I was wondering where do you think you are in terms of relative pricing relative to traditional colleges? And is there a room for improvement in terms of at least getting the value to be more obvious to students to drive growth? That's a great question.
We are concerned about student debt as everybody is and we've taken steps to help control that rate of growth.
We try to lower that debt for our students.
So that's important.
In terms of affordability DeVry University just to use one example is in the bottom 1/3 of private college tuition.
And in terms of what are we doing to try to make college more affordable I got to tell you we take every opportunity to keep down costs increase the ROEI not just the ROI the return on educational investment for students.
Examples of that are students can finish a 4-year bachelor's degree in 3 years.
That saves them money.
They earn an extra year's salary starting their career earlier.
We have a long track record of holding our rate of tuition increase below the rate of public sector and independent colleges in the United States.
In recent years we've even frozen tuition in many programs.
We offer institutional scholarships $40 million $50 million I think we've noted this past year to help students.
And we also help students connect with outside sources of financial aid.
We try to accept -- we try to be very transfer credit-friendly educational military experience for credit.
We also allow students to test out our courses through examinations to save them time and money.
And we talked about the reduced credit hour rates for students who attend full-time.
So those are a few examples of the kinds of things that come to my mind about how we're trying to help improve affordability for our students.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up on the international side.
Any other sort of market opportunity that you're looking at outside of Brazil? Or is right now the focus primarily Brazil? Sure.
Brazil showed up as the #1 opportunity through our analyses that we did 5 6 years ago and we took a couple of years to find the right opportunity.
We're very careful about that but we knew it was important even if it took a little longer to find the right partners.
And we feel we did.
And every time we rerun that analysis Brazil continues to come out along with United States as the top most attractive market.
After that we look to Asia Southeast Asia in particular as a place that we continue to look at.
We have been in India for example since 1997 with Becker and we'd like to extend that in other forms of education.
So I'd say probably Southeast Asia.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just Daniel I guess you don't want to try to reoffer any guidance when you think you'll turn back positive on new enrollment in DeVry undergrad.
Is that right? Yes that's right.
We're not there yet but we'll keep you posted.
We understand the need for that.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the RN to BSN I know that's a very competitive online offering with a lot of the public schools getting in.
Just wondering how you sort of were able to reaccelerate that given all the new competition.
Yes actually that's exactly what we've done and we've had a record class here.
And even though people say "Well it's more competition.
How can you grow with competition?" Well you can.
You offer a very strong value proposition and then you execute very carefully through the whole process of serving your students from helping them enroll to helping them stay in college and graduate and then gain employment and repay their loans that whole cycle.
In particular I think Chamberlain has just continued to improve its reputation or brand if you want to use that term.
The kind of partnerships partnering with the NLN partnering with Sigma Theta Tau International these are significant -- these are sort of head-turners in the world of nursing.
So we're very proud of those partnerships and we're going to do everything we can to live up to and honor those partnerships.
Partnering with hospitals and working with them to educate -- put Chamberlain's value proposition for the RN to BSN as well as our MSN and now doctoral DNP program in front of their nursing staff who wants -- who want to continue their education those are some of the levers that I would say we're pulling that are contributing to that success.
Research Division</strong> If I can stick one in about the advertising was there any certain brands that you -- I think you said advertising was down year-on-year 7%.
Was there any certain brands where it's down more than others or it's across the board? At DVU a little bit of timing there which I think was alluded to -- we alluded to that.
And we're just -- we're feeling confident that -- I know there has been some big giant increases in advertising some other people talked about.
We're pretty confident in the strength of our brands and our ability to get more efficient.
And we really held ourselves accountable to get more efficient use social media digital media and things like that to improve our efficiencies in marketing.
So we continue to grow the reputation and the brand presence while being efficient with the use of those resources.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask a follow-up on that last question with DVU.
It sounds like most of the front-end metrics are good with the exception of inquiry flow.
So just wondering your thoughts on why not increase advertising expense.
You guys have had 2 quarters in a row now of deferred advertising expense.
It seems to me like if you increase the ad expense you could drive some of those inquiries.
I just wanted to know your thought process around that.
The reason is we want to be very careful stewards of capital of our owner's capital and our resources.
Where we see those opportunities we'll do that and there have been past quarters where we even had surprises and apologized for not getting it up in advance but it happened very quickly.
We saw an opportunity and we took advantage of it here.
We just want to make sure we don't spend it just to spend it.
Where we see opportunities we'll do that.
We'll usually test it and then roll it out.
So we're testing a lot of things and we won't be shy Jeff I would say where we see an opportunity to increase the advertising spend.
Whether that's going to be a productive way to attract and educate more prospective students about the opportunity of a DeVry University degree we'll do that and that would apply to all the institutions.
And I would add Daniel -- it's Tim Jeff -- that we anticipate sequentially increasing that spend around 11%.
So it's a function of where we see the opportunity and we don't want to waste it.
But we also want to position ourselves where we need to position ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just wanted to ask you a question on your philosophy regarding how you communicate the expense savings to the Street.
When you say at least $80 million is that $80 million a conservative number of things that you've already identified and are pretty confident that you should -- you can capture and you're continuing to look for additional opportunities? And as you find additional opportunities you would increase that target.
Is that how we should think about it? Well we certainly have been able to do that so far and we did use the words at least.
So we're comfortable with the $80 million and we're continuing to look.
The things that could derail that is if we had a sudden influx of new students that would flip those variable costs the other way.
But I think you'd -- if that happened you'd be happy about it.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Silber with BMO Capital Markets.
You both alluded to the fact that the issue with DeVry University seems to be inquiries at the top of the channel being challenging.
I'm just curious how you're changing your message to students -- prospective students to make it less challenging to entice them to enroll.
Sure.
We're really focusing on DeVry's long-time reputation for being the career university.
I know that some other people may have talked about that or are trying to do that for the first time.
We've been at this for decades and we've got a long track record of a data third-party review data back to 1975.
And since that time we've had graduates in the active job market who had been employed within their field of study within 6 months of graduation.
So that's the kind of message that we think is important to tell.
And we're trying increasingly to work with the employers.
More and more of the employers particularly in areas like IT I mean it's amazing out there.
There's not a lot of unemployment among programmers sys admin [system administrators] DBAs infrastructure.
And we continue to do a better job of demonstrating that to the prospective student.
But it's just a little more challenging right now because even with that data we see our back-end if you will being very strong.
Just on the margin many students and their families are just hesitating on that.
And it's interesting.
It's not just in education.
I just saw a Wall Street Journal/MSNBC poll that was in The Wall Street Journal a couple of weeks ago.
They polled American public and 60% of people said they saw the coming year this year as a time to hold back and save because harder times are ahead.
So it's just that hesitancy that's out there.
So -- but that's the career message that we're emphasizing to try to counteract that Jeff.
Your next question is from the line of Trace Urdan with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two enrollment-related questions Daniel.
I wonder if it's possible to describe the DeVry undergraduate sort of weakness and then relative recovery from that weakness in terms of IT versus other disciplines and maybe specifically business.
That's the first question.
And then the second question is I wonder if you could put some of the comments you made about the market environment in context relative to Ross Medical.
Are you seeing that the economy is impacting demand in that particular school? Or is that more a situation where you've got sort of capacity restrictions still that mute the pace of growth in that business? Okay.
And I am looking forward to the day where someone pronounces your last name properly but I appreciate that question.
And I would say for DeVry University undergraduate not a lot of trends to report to you.
On the margin just online a little bit better than on-site.
Health care technology -- and technology a little bit better than business.
Business is a little weaker.
But not major trends just sort of a little bit on the margin as I looked at the data.
Let's see one interesting -- we have a new -- relatively new bachelors in health care administration.
So that's a relatively new program.
That's an example of kind of investing in a new program to drive growth that we mean when we say that third plank of our platform in the performance improvement plan.
In terms of Ross the market environment at Ross University School of Medicine same for American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine the top level demand continues to be very strong.
And I would say that we have added to our capacity along the 4 years of medical school both the foundation for medicine the first 2 years and the clinical clerkships in the third and fourth year of medical school.
And I would say that Ross University School of Medicine is not capacity-constrained.
Right now we can grow.
Your next question is from the line of Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Daniel this is a bit of a follow-on to what Trace was just asking.
But I'm noting the dichotomy in the start performance between Carrington and DeVry University and it's particularly noteworthy since I think and maybe I'm wrong in this that the demographics of the student populations for those programs would be similar.
So can you sort of compare and contrast why is one doing so well and the other not? Sure.
And part of it is the -- what did they say? The bigger the boom the bigger the bust or the bigger the bust the bigger the boom.
So Carrington had a bigger downturn than DeVry University and it is a different demographic among many of the segments of students.
DeVry University is mainly bachelors and graduate school program as well as Keller a little bit of associate degree whereas Carrington is mainly associate degrees and certificates.
In fact certificates are a little bit bigger than associate degrees.
So those are shorter-term programs kind of start -- career-starting programs.
Many of those students do go on later to a bachelor's degree maybe at Carrington or DeVry University or somewhere else.
So it is a little bit different demographic.
And I would say the shorter -- in general shorter-term programs tend to be more cyclical and more subject to the consumer sentiment than longer-term programs are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tim a bunch of people have asked you about the trajectory in cost.
Let me ask you this way.
I think given the trend in enrollments it would be reasonable to expect you could report up margins in fiscal '14 versus '13? No Peter what -- the way I'd have you think about it is is that DeVry University Daniel mentioned that our enrollments are running about 2 quarters or so behind where we expect to be.
And one of the unfortunate things is it drives revenue down in the current year but it also is emptying out the pipeline.
So that puts us kind of behind where we'd like to be.
And so we're going to likely see further erosion of total students because we haven't crossed over to the growth mode yet and that's going to be putting pressure on margins next year.
Your next question is from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> Listening to the commentary about the advertising spend I think I heard that one reason that you didn't spend as much and maybe you start [indiscernible] you just didn't think the opportunities were there.
So question is is it sort of -- is you attitude the students will go to school when they are ready to go to school and the economy will determine that? Or do you think there are things you could do to maybe start serving students who might not have otherwise be it technology or added services anything like that? Sure.
Our attitude is definitely not the first part of that not just we're just going to have to wait.
And so that means launching new programs and then there's advertising associated with that.
But I think what you saw is just a little bit of timing.
Some of the projects that we're working on at DeVry University marketing weren't quite ready and we wanted to make sure we used the resources most effectively and efficiently as we could.
So there was a little bit of timing.
Tim pointed out that's going to come back.
So we've given you a little bit of a heads up there.
So no I think there are opportunities.
We're just being careful to make sure that we align those resources against the best opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just had a quick follow-up on your commentary about the MOOCs and I agree with everything you said.
But looking forward one would think that if there were curriculum areas where the MOOCs could be a threat to traditional schools and also traditional proprietary schools in that camp would be technology just because there's ways to via objective assessments tell whether people have obtained the skills they need to do certain jobs.
So just to push back on that a little bit do you think a couple of years out do you foresee that there might be more of a threat for MOOCs? And is there anything you could do strategically about that? We're recently watching it and we've run -- if you want to think of that we've run MOOCs for quite a long time.
Students who are not accepted to DeVry University for example are not just turned out onto the Street they're offered free remedial courses not really a MOOC because they're offered on-site and even with a facilitator and despite that the students just ask for more people more facilitation or more professor time.
So what we -- we just see this idea of self-paced content.
So in other words if you think -- so is the Internet going to do to education what's it's done to other media segments newspapers or songs or movies or something? I guess if you define education as media something that someone just consumes sort of a one-way street that's one way to think about it but that's not really education.
Education is a 2-way street.
It's a relationship.
You're not just consuming.
So there's a professor.
There's supporting services.
There's career services.
There's interaction with other students.
There's student life.
And so it's not just a matter of consuming that almost like cramming it into somebody's head or taking the blue pill the red pill in that movie whichever one it was.
And so for students who need and are looking for a career and a credential and a degree to get that it's hard to see how self-paced free no resources to be able to fund the kind of support services is going to meet that need.
I'm not saying it doesn't meet any need it may but not really the targeted student that we've traditionally focused on.
So I just see having less of an impact there.
The next one is from the line of Brian Karimzad with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the high school students I know in fall of '11 you said that the inquiries and interest there had fallen off pretty dramatically and that impacted the starts this last fall.
How did the high school channel perform in terms of general interest this past fall? And I have a follow-up.
Sure.
I think not much news to report there.
It's an area that we like to see do better.
We did reduce some of the coverage of markets where we have the high school presenters and the people who went out to the high schools.
Just as part of being as efficient as we can it's still a good thing to do it's part of our outreach to the community.
But in times like these we have to be that much tougher with our deployment of resources.
So kind of more of the same there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to refresh us what percent of the DVU students are typically taking the course load that could get them to graduate in 3 4 years? And generally what percent of those actually do graduate in that time frame? I think of our graduates I believe it was around 20% of the graduates graduated in 3 years the last time I saw that data.
But that's off the top of my head so please don't hold me to that.
Well I'll go look that up and we can follow up.
And actually much higher percentage at Chamberlain.
But I think that's the number for DVU.
So I think we have to stop there but I would like to thank everyone for your questions and remind us that our next results call is scheduled for April 23 when we'll announce third quarter fiscal '13 results and March enrollments.
Thanks everyone for your continued support of DeVry.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining us and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the DeVry Fiscal '13 Third Quarter Conference Call.
My name is Sue and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Sue and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor statement.
This call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
Please consult with our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until May 20.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for more information.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Thank you Joan.
Thank you all very much for joining us today.
Total revenues for the third quarter were down year-over-year.
In all institutions other than DeVry University and Advanced Academics revenues were up.
We're managing aggressively in this environment and I would say that as a result total operating expenses were lower versus the prior year.
But at the same time our academic outcomes remained strong including solid employment outcomes at DeVry University impressive board scores at our health care institutions and strong pass rates among our Becker students.
We're continuing to execute on our performance improvement plan.
And as a reminder the plan has 3 priorities: aligning our cost structure regaining enrollment growth and making targeted investments to drive future growth.
And so first with respect aligning our cost structure last quarter we increased our fiscal 2013 goal for efficiency savings and value creation to at least $80 million.
And we now in this quarter believe we can achieve $100 million.
And so as a result we expect our total expenses to be down for fiscal 2013 from the prior year.
At DeVry University in Carrington we've made a great deal of progress matching our staffing needs with our enrollment levels while maintaining the high level of quality teaching and service that our students expect.
We also continue to generate savings through real estate optimization and this further consolidation of locations across our family of institutions.
I'm going to ask Tim to go into more detail on this a little later.
Let me simply say that while to date our real estate optimization efforts have accounted for a relatively small portion of the efficiencies that we've achieved I'm really proud of the team's thinking and their approach to this area and we expect more opportunities heading into fiscal '14.
Now for our second priority regaining enrollment growth.
I'm going to focus mostly here on DeVry University where our enrollment results clearly weren't where we'd like them to be.
The sequential improvement that we saw in January enrollment didn't carry through to the March session.
We need to improve our execution while we're continuing to be impacted by a challenging environment.
And just for context we believe that the biggest reason for soft enrollments at DeVry University is lower cyclical demand among our target segment of students driven by the economy the job market and perceptions of the value of a college degree.
Continued weakness in the economy and over 4 years of elevated unemployment is having a profound affect across higher education.
Even enrollments in the heavily tax-subsidized and low-tuition community colleges were down over 3% nationwide in 2012.
Enrollment in California's Community College System which is the largest in the United States is now at a 20-year low.
That's according to a March report from the Public Policy Institute of California.
And on the other end of the spectrum graduate programs continue the struggle as well.
Right here in Chicago Northwestern and Loyola University's Law Schools recently announced that they are each reducing their incoming class by 10%.
Many prospective students are hesitant to commit to pursuing a degree as they're questioning the value of a diploma.
Basically they're saying to us "Why should I go to college when the jobs just aren't there?" Some color on this is a lengthening of the decision-making process.
At DeVry University historically for a prospective student to go from the initial inquiry stage to the application it's been around 20 days.
We've now seen this number more than double to 50 days.
This student hesitation is probably reinforced by media stories saying college isn't worth it anymore.
Yesterday the USA Today ran a story entitled "Kids Skip College Not Worth The Money".
Well as you know the fact is that the value of a college degree remains very strong whether you're looking at salary differential unemployment differential for college grads.
And left out of most of these media stories is the fact that job opportunities remain high in many of the fields DeVry University specializes in including software development management analysis accounting and also emerging fields like cyber security.
So we believe as the economy improves we'll likely see different media stories saying "Can't Find Programmers Can't Find Accountants".
We believe an improving job market will be a positive tailwind and the long-term value of a degree remains strong despite this current cyclical challenges that we're facing.
So with that context let's focus on the steps that we're taking to address these challenges and regain employment growth -- enrollment growth at DeVry University.
Our strategy is centered on the fact that DeVry University offers a very strong return on investment and we need to do more to demonstrate this inherent value proposition to prospective students.
So first we're changing our messaging to be more hard hitting on DeVry University as the career university.
86% of graduates active in the job market are employed in their field of study within 6 months of graduation and that's with an average salary over $43 000 and the percent is trending up as we're going through this fiscal year.
So we're going to do a better job of communicating these impressive results to prospective students.
Second we're improving how we help students understand the various ways we can assist them to finance their education and we're going to do that earlier in the admissions process.
One way we're doing that is by introducing tools like a new net price calculator.
This allows this prospective student to enter information specific to them and to see what grants and scholarships they might qualify for to lower their educational cost.
Now we're also improving the affordability of our programs.
For example we're in the process of developing a shorter version of the MBA program offered through DeVry University's Keller Graduate School of Management.
This new executive MBA program will require 32 credits and would run in parallel to the standard 48-credit program.
This shorter program is targeted toward an MBA student with more managerial and work experience coming in.
We're also addressing affordability through scholarships and pricing.
DeVry University will continue to offer scholarships as well as doing more to help students access outside sources of financial aid and we're going to freeze tuition for next year.
We have a long track record of holding our rate of tuition increase below the rate of public sector and independent colleges in the U.S.
We think our actions to improve affordability look even stronger in students' eyes when you note that at public universities average tuition jumped 8.3% in 2012.
That's from a report by the State Higher Education Executive Officers Association.
It's the largest increase on record and that's after grants and scholarships.
So that's net tuition that increased 8.3% among the public sector and independents.
And one last point on regaining enrollment growth at DeVry University is investing in partnerships with corporate and government organizations.
We have over 200 such partnerships.
150 are with Fortune 500 companies.
Now just one example of these is Wal-Mart with whom we've worked for several years.
DeVry University and its Keller Graduate School of Management are currently educating over 900 Wal-Mart associates.
And as a result of this customized partnership -- we're getting some noise on the line here.
[Technical Difficulty] Let me -- just in case there was that noise I'm just going to back up a second here.
So I was talking about Wal-Mart with whom we've worked for several years at DeVry University in the Keller Graduate School of management.
And at the present time we're educating over 900 Wal-Mart associates.
It's a customized partnership where Wal-Mart associates have access to DeVry University locations coast-to-coast and online courses as well and a dedicated service team.
They also receive special tuition savings.
Companies like Wal-Mart set very high standards.
And so when they partner with DeVry University it reflects very well on the quality of our academic programs and support services.
Our corporate partners tell us that they also value the DeVry group's ability to provide a wide range of programs across our diverse institutions so across Chamberlain and Carrington and so forth.
And so that's how we're thinking about the challenges impacting DeVry University enrollment and our plan to regain enrollment growth.
And I'd like to go on and discuss a little bit more about regaining enrollment growth across Carrington and Chamberlain as well.
In Carrington I'm pleased to say that our turnaround plan is working.
New student enrollment was up 17.5% in the quarter and that's now the third straight quarter of double-digit enrollment growth.
Improvements to our processes and to our recruiting efforts continue to drive higher-quality inquiries and higher conversion rates as a result.
The implementation of a new branding campaign in December continues to gain momentum and through an A-B split test methodology we're refining our messaging to prospective students across media including local television social media and others.
These efforts are increasing awareness of Carrington's value proposition namely the individual attention and the career focus that we provide Carrington students.
Now with this progress that we've made in turning around new student enrollment we're now moving into the next phase of the plan which is getting Carrington back in the black.
We'll narrow our focus geographically and programmatically around Carrington's core strength in health care careers.
This means that we'll reduce the emphasis on non-health care programs in some local markets where demand has been the weakest at least for the near term.
We're also making quality enhancements to Carrington's programs which includes a mix-and-match approach.
And this enables students to have the best balance of on-site and online coursework that works the best for them.
Now at Chamberlain College of Nursing total student enrollments were up nearly 17%.
In case there's any confusion with the academic calendar shift that we're implementing at Chamberlain we've included a chart for you in the release.
I'm going to ask Tim to provide some detail a little bit later.
Enrollment in Chamberlain's online RN-to-BSN program continued to show strength in the quarter and that was driven by higher-quality inquiries and an improved conversion rate.
We've just completed a market study on the long-term outlook for demand in this online RN-to-BSN program and our findings are showing that demand should remain strong and it's driven by an increased need for skilled nurses at the baccalaureate level.
You may recall that at this time last year we were discussing the softness that we were experiencing in this program and we've now turned around new student enrollments at Chamberlain online RN-to-BSN just as we did at Carrington and we intend to do so at DeVry University as well.
And now just turning to the third priority we're making targeted investments to drive growth across new programs new campuses and acquisitions.
At the American University of the Caribbean and Ross University Schools of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine we're currently developing dual MD/MBA and DVM/MBA degrees -- too many letters.
So an MD/MBA and a DVM/MBA.
2 programs.
And that's in partnership with the Keller Graduate School of management of course.
These are some of the first dual-degree programs of their kind among the DeVry institutions and it's a great example of how we're increasingly leveraging our diversified family of institutions to create new programs.
At Becker our exam review course for the U.S.
Medical Licensing Exam has been doing well and is now being taught in 2 new locations 1 in New York and 1 in Chicago.
So that's new programs.
In terms of new campuses we're selectively investing here.
During the quarter Chamberlain opened a new campus in Cleveland.
And in May Chamberlain's new Tinley Park Illinois location will sit its first class.
And that's our third location in the Chicago land area.
Much like our Atlanta opening the Tinley Park location is receiving a very strong response from students who want to enroll in nursing.
We're also continuing to invest in DeVry Medical International with construction of new facilities in AUC on pace to open in September and we're investing in our human capital as well bringing in Dr.
Heidi Chumley to serve as AUC's new Dean and Chief Academic Officer.
We recruited Dr.
Chumley from the University of Kansas School of Medicine.
Over there she was the Associate Vice Chancellor for Educational Resources and Interprofessional Education.
Dr.
Chumley's accomplished career as a physician as an educator and as a leader is going to serve AUC very well.
DeVry Brasil is also an opportunity to make investments to drive growth through both organic growth and acquisitions.
Across DeVry Brasil we're focused on investing in new program offerings in high-demand health care fields and also in improving the quality of our existing programs with new facilities and new equipment.
And so that's an update on our progress across our performance improvement plan with 3 urgent priorities: aligning our cost structure regaining enrollment growth and then making targeted investments to drive future growth.
And we're intently focused on addressing our challenges at DeVry University.
And so with that overview let's turn it over to Tim for a discussion of the financial results.
Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I walk through enrollment and financial results in detail let me start by commenting on our cost reduction efforts.
We've been hard at work focusing on increasing efficiencies and creating value throughout the entire organization.
For our institutions in transition we started 2013 with a target of $50 million in savings and value creation opportunities.
I'm pleased to say we've now increased our target to $100 million to be delivered by the end of the fiscal year.
We think our -- we think about our cost saving strategy around 3 overlapping layers.
The first phase is made of near-term items focusing on our staffing models and variable cost elements.
That's what's been driving a lot of the initial savings as we adjust our cost model to enrollment volumes.
The middle phase comprises items that take a little longer to walk through.
Things like our real estate footprint where we've been able to consolidate 7 facilities to date.
For example last quarter we delivered approximately $3 million in annual expected savings from consolidating an administrative office facility in Wood Dale Illinois as well as facilities at Carrington College and DeVry University.
In the third quarter we consolidated Carrington's Emeryville California campus.
The third phase which is in its early stage focuses on process redesign and restructuring.
These are longer-term initiatives which not only reduce cost but also improve service quality and shift cost to a more variable model.
This includes areas like student finance which is currently spread out across individual institutions and campuses.
So those are things that will take a little bit longer and probably require some investment.
Taken together we think the combination of these 3 layers puts us in a position to reduce our cost structure make it a more variable cost model and allow us to experience more positive operating leverage when enrollment growth returns.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect total cost and expenses to be down year-over-year but up sequentially driven by higher revenue and new locations at our growth institutions.
As we exit the year we expect our expense savings run rate within our institutions and transition to be in the $125 million range.
Stepping back and looking at the full fiscal year we're now expecting total costs to decrease in the range of 1% to 2%.
We're pleased that we've been able to continue to fund investments in our growing health care and the international institutions and to reduce costs in our institutions in transition.
Turning to enrollments.
As Daniel mentioned DeVry University experienced a challenging quarter with new student enrollment down 21.2% from last year and total enrollment down 16.5%.
At Carrington new and total student enrollment grew this quarter.
Going into the fourth quarter and next year at Carrington we don't expect to continue going to continue achieving large enrollment gains that you've seen in the past few quarters.
We still expect positive growth just at more modest levels as we narrow our focus and cycle through tougher comparisons.
Chamberlain continues to experience new and total student enrollment growth as the need for skilled nurses in the U.S.
remains high.
Total enrollment was up nearly 17% and new student enrollment was up nearly 16%.
The third quarter was the final quarter of Chamberlain's campus-based realignment to mirror a traditional academic calendar with September January and May intakes.
Due to the shift there were no campus-based enrollments in March.
Therefore the new student comparison for March is for online students only.
Growth also continues for DeVry Brasil driven by Fanor and FAVIP.
New student enrollments were up 2% versus prior year and total students were up more than 7%.
Moving on to the financial results.
Third quarter total revenues were $509 million down 5.9% versus prior year.
Year-to-date revenues were $1.5 billion down 6%.
In the third quarter revenues for our institutions in transition -- that's DeVry University Carrington and Advanced Academics -- were $327 million down 14.5% versus the prior year.
This was partially offset by our growing institutions where revenues increased 15.5% to $183 million.
Acquisitions of Falcon FBV and FAVIP contributed positively to these results.
Excluding a $2 million pretax restructuring charge related to the consolidation of Carrington's Emeryville campus and severance costs related to our decision to close DeVry University's Calgary campus total operating costs and expenses for the quarter of $433.1 million declined 2.7% compared to last year.
For the 9-month period total cost and expenses were about $1.3 billion down 1.5% compared to last year.
During the third quarter total costs excluding discrete items at our institutions in transition were down 9.7% or nearly $29 million versus the year ago period.
This was driven by our expense management and from lower cost that varied directly with enrollment levels including adjunct faculty and bad debt.
Based on the current enrollment trends we expect expenses for the fourth quarter to decline modestly on a sequential basis at our institutions in transition.
Total cost excluding discrete items at our growing institutions increased 13.5% which is less than revenue growth and consistent with our plans for continued growth at DeVry Medical International Chamberlain and DeVry Brasil.
Cost of educational services decreased about 1.3% during the quarter.
Costs were down at our institutions in transition by 9.5% year-over-year.
This was partially offset by a 20.1% increase in costs at our growing institutions.
Student services and administrative expense decreased 4.5% as compared with the prior year.
Costs at our institutions in transition were down 10.3% largely reflecting our cost-reduction initiatives to match enrollment levels.
Costs at our other institutions increased 3.3% which was more than offset by our cost reductions.
Reported net income was $57 million for the quarter and $139 million year-to-date.
Diluting -- diluted earnings per share excluding discrete items was $0.90 this quarter and $2.26 year-to-date.
Our effective tax rate was 22% for the quarter.
This tax rate reflects the benefit from the recent reinstatement of expiring tax provisions of the tax law.
We expect that our effective income tax rate for operations for fiscal year 2013 will be around 24% in the fourth quarter.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results which are further detailed in our release.
Starting with the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was down 16.3% during the quarter versus prior year and 15.3% year-to-date.
DeVry University undergraduate revenue per student was down 3.6% in the third quarter compared with the prior year.
This was driven by an increasing percentage of students from our corporate and military channels and lower course loads.
Excluding discrete items total segment expenses for the third quarter decreased 9.5% as compared to the year ago period and 8.5% for the 9-month period.
Segment earnings minus discrete items were $35.4 million in the quarter down 45.2% versus last year driven by the revenue decline and resulting margin compression.
For the 9 months segment earnings were down 45.6%.
Within the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue was up 9.1% during the third quarter and 8.6% year-to-date.
And excluding discrete items earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment for the quarter of $35.7 million increased 37.4% from the prior year.
Finally revenue within the International K-12 and Professional Education increased 23.3% in the quarter and 23% year-to-date.
This was driven by growth at DeVry Brasil the acquisition of Falcon Physician Reviews in April 2012 and from sales of Becker CPA review materials.
At DeVry Brasil revenues increased 60.5% this quarter driven by the acquisitions of FBV and FAVIP as well as organic growth.
We continue to explore growth opportunities in Brazil both through organic expansion into new programs and locations as well as through acquisitions.
The segment's earnings increased 19% during the quarter versus the prior year driven by increased operating leverage within DeVry Brasil and Becker.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat the talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Thank you Tim and good afternoon everyone.
Liquidity and financial position continue to remain solid.
Cash flow from operations for the first 9 months was $281 million versus $355 million last year reflecting our lower earnings.
The cash and marketable security balance was to $278 million at the end of the quarter compared to $332 million last year.
Our cash and marketable securities balance is lower than last year reflecting our investments for acquisitions.
Our net accounts receivable balance was about $194 million versus $255 million last year.
The lower AR balance was the result of decreased revenues and our continued focus on collections management.
Our bad debt rates continue to reflect the focus on the receivable collection process with year-to-date bad debt expense down to 2.2% of revenue as compared to 2.3% last year a strong indicator of the value proposition of our programs and our team's disciplined execution in this area even during these tough economic times.
A concern we've heard about a lot lately is exposure that some private sector colleges and universities have to recourse on private loan programs.
Across DeVry's institutions private loans are a very small percentage of our students' total financing about 2%.
And we don't have any significant exposure to recourse private loans.
Capital spending for the first 9 months was $79 million versus $92 million spent last year.
Our capital spending was down because we delayed a couple of projects and by the continued focus on prudent capital deployment.
We expect total capital spending for the fiscal year to be in the $125 million to $135 million range as we reinvest our earnings in academic quality and targeted growth initiatives.
During third quarter we repurchased over 347 000 shares of our common stock for about $9.8 million or an average of $28.18 per share.
Overall our strong financial position and cash flow generation gives us the flexibility to reinvest in quality and growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thank you Pat.
Okay.
Before we get to your questions I'd like to highlight how quality plus diversification differentiates DeVry and positions us for long-term growth.
One measure of quality is the investments that we make in academics in student services in educational technology and so forth.
Over the last fiscal year DeVry spent over $900 million in academics and infrastructure to serve our students.
This includes investments in state-of-the-art patient simulators at Chamberlain and Ross and AUC and many other investments.
About $25 million has been invested in areas like curriculum and faculty development.
At DeVry University roughly 40% of our professors now hold doctoral degrees.
As an illustration of how investing in quality differentiates DeVry consider the accreditation process that each of our institutions goes through.
And we know this had been a concern for -- that some of you have had having seen some issues in this area.
And last quarter I mentioned how Chamberlain received Higher Learning Commission -- that's the HLC HLC approval of its first doctoral program the DNP.
Recently Ross University School of Medicine successfully earned its reaccreditation from the Dominica Medical Board for a 5-year term.
In this quarter DeVry University completed a full review from the HLC and achieved reaccreditation through 2019.
This is a tremendous accomplishment on the part of our team and the feedback we received from the HLC reviewers couldn't have made us more proud.
I'd like to share a comment from their report: "The University invests in the services programs and infrastructure needed to provide an outstanding educational experience to its students in order to enhance their academic and career success." These successful accreditations really do illustrate how investing in quality differentiates DeVry.
The other measure of quality is student outcomes.
Earlier I mentioned the graduate employment rate for DeVry University.
Recently I was visiting our Phoenix campus and I learned that in the past year IBM hired more graduates from DeVry University Phoenix than from Arizona State or from the University of Arizona.
At Becker we just learned that 37 of 39 of the 2012 Elijah Watts Sells Award winners prepared with the Becker CPA review course.
So DeVry is distinguished by the quality of our institution.
And we've also diversified to mitigate risk and to give us more opportunities for future growth.
We've included a chart labeled Chart 3 in the press release just to give you a picture of the success of DeVry's diversification strategy.
And it shows how over the past decade we've diversified our curriculum more into high-demand fields like health care which now accounts for about 1/3 of our current revenue; we've also diversified across degree levels with more coverage across doctoral masters bachelors and pre-baccalaureate associate and certificate-level programs; and geographically we're diversified as well with nearly 1/5 of our revenues come from outside the United States including of course DeVry Brasil which now serves 29 000 students across 5 cities.
DeVry's formula of quality plus diversification is helping us as we work through the cyclical weakness in the United States and we remain confident that DeVry is well positioned to capture opportunities for long-term growth and career-oriented education.
So to wrap up we've made progress in some areas and we know we have more work to do in others.
We're focused on addressing enrollments at DeVry University and sustaining momentum on a performance improvement plan with the goal of returning to overall growth and operating leverage.
So with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
Okay great.
Sue if you could give our participants the instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call we'd appreciate it.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Sara Gubins Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is David Chu for Sara Gubins.
So did starts get so much worse in the back half of the quarter? Because I know you guys announced essentially in mid-February and it sounds like it was much worse than expected.
No.
I would say it was not a sudden shift during the quarter.
Just the kind of choppiness that we talked about at that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I know you guys like historically or at least in recent quarters cited kind of lead flow as the reason as conversion rates were strong.
I mean is that -- did that continue? Or were conversion rates weak in the quarter? No unfortunately and disappointingly it was really both.
Inquiries were down and the conversion was down as we saw degradation obviously in the mix.
And so I'm sorry to report and disappointed to report that it was really both this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up.
Can you quantify what portion of the $100 million is actual like cost savings versus lower variable cost that's associated with a lower base? If you think about it this way probably about 80% -- 80% to 85% are structural lower cost that we've taken out of the system versus the volumetric component ranging between 15% to 20%.
And your next question comes from Suzy Stein Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> In the beginning of the call you talked about how big the opportunity is in terms of real estate optimization.
Can you just give us some idea of the magnitude of this and how much potential cost savings you think you could achieve maybe in fiscal '14 from this? Well I think a lot has to do with how the enrollments play out at DeVry University.
And obviously we're disappointed with what we saw here in this class sitting.
So what we're looking at is the overall portfolio of real estate.
And I think we're still too early to figure that out.
It's really a function of where the enrollments play out and should we make some additional structural changes to how we approach those markets.
Suffice it to say as Daniel mentioned that we're going to continue to find places like the Emeryville campus where we were able to move those students to a campus that was within a 15- or 20-minute drive.
So part of it is in optimization but we're also early looking at should we change some of the structure of these campuses to have -- continue to provide the mix-and-match and the campus experience but with maybe a different cost approach.
Research Division</strong> And I hate to ask this question but could you comment on the recent Attorney General actions in Illinois and Massachusetts? Sure.
I think we're in a world where you have to show -- not only be compliant which we are but you have to show that you're compliant and that's what these 2 Attorneys General have asked.
We now that in the -- we now know or we understand that many others received that request for information in Massachusetts.
And to broaden context we have very little presence in Massachusetts.
We have no campuses there.
We do have some students from Massachusetts who would be going online with us but no state aid dollars from Massachusetts into our students.
So that's just a little context there.
And in all cases we absolutely intend and are cooperating fully with the inquiries as we've done before.
It's I think a cooperative sort of stance.
And I would note we've had a comprehensive compliance program in place since 1982 and we're totally committed to quality and integrity in all we do and are happy to cooperate and show once again the quality of our compliance programs.
Your next question comes from Paul Ginocchio Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Adrienne Colby for Paul Ginocchio.
Could you comment on how to high school enrollment channel is trending and if there's any expectation that could have a possible drag on the July and September enrollment trends? Yes.
That's an excellent question.
And unfortunately I think it is a little bit soft for us.
We're seeing -- and actually that was in that USA Today article I saw yesterday was talking about kids coming straight out of high school and saying "I'm just going to skip college or I'm going to delay college and I'm going to try to start a business." It profiled someone who was starting a car detailing business instead of going to college.
And we're seeing that a little bit in our high school program.
And as a result we've seen that program be a little bit less productive and so we've -- that's one of the areas that we have redeployed some of our resources.
So in metropolitan areas where it is working we going to certainly continue it and we're dedicated and committed to working with high schools to help them educate their students on college and careers.
And so we continue to run wonderful programs like HerWorld which helps high school young women understand programs in STEM fields.
It's interesting something like 58% of all college 4-year degrees are earned by females but only 20% of all STEM degrees are earned by female.
And so we're trying to do our part along with others to turn that around and introduce those programs to young ladies and that's an area that's part of that high school program.
But -- so we're going to continue to do that.
But we have trimmed it back in metropolitan areas where it hasn't been as productive to redeploy those resources.
So it is an area that we've -- historically have seen more strength.
It's historically been a nice sort of -- a part of the diversification having that more steady group of students that tends to be historically over the decades less cyclical than the working adult student.
But this time with this economic situation and the perception of employment it seems to be a little bit different.
So it's probably an area of softness for us heading into the -- where they would traditionally enroll in July and September.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask a follow-on to David's question.
Of the additional $20 million in cost saves that you've talked about this quarter versus last quarter is it the same sort of split that you indicated the 80% as sort of structural and 15% to 20% is volumetric? Or is that additional $20 million more on the volume side? It -- some of it's more on the volume side.
However we are getting some very good results from our course optimization and being smarter on how we schedule courses so that's more structural.
But yes there is with lower revenues we have more books for our cost lower bad debt expense.
And your next question is from Gary Bisbee.
Research Division</strong> It's Zach Fadem for Gary.
Looking at the last 4 or 5 starts periods for DeVry University undergrad you've kind of gone from double digit to single digit and back and forth and back and forth.
Just given the choppiness of this pattern and looking back is there any internal execution issues that have gone on? Or is this primarily a function of demand? It's both I would say.
And I think that's a good observation and I think it is -- that choppiness is something that we talked about and so we would probably expect that.
We do need to do a better job of execution in particular in communicating the strong value proposition that we do have.
That's the sort of maybe ironic part of this dynamic is that when you look at the value of the investment in DeVry University Education in terms of the employment results it's very very strong.
Yet just on the margin we're seeing students who are hesitating.
And so the plan from an execution standpoint is to be more hard-hitting about that messaging.
I think we've done a very good job with our messaging and branding and advertising those kinds of activities.
And talking about -- and building the brand reputation of DeVry University and Keller Graduate School of Management is helping improve awareness.
We need to be more hard-hitting on that message of the career outcomes.
And I think in this environment we also need to do a better job of helping students finance their education and show them how we can assist that.
And we have some specific tools and technologies as well that we'll be rolling out to do that.
So we've identified practices we've identified messaging we've identified technologies that we're rolling out to do a better job of that execution while yes there are also external factors at play here.
So it's a bit of both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And back to the growing part of the business at Chamberlain you've posted really solid growth largely due to the impact of new campuses.
I'm curious what the current margin impact is on in particular the startup campuses and how do you see those startup losses trending over the next 12 to 24 months? Sure.
Let me start and if you want to jump in here because a few quarters ago we gave some color on that dynamic.
I don't know if we can pull it up off the top of our heads here but I would also add just to antecedents of your question the growth has been driven both by the new campuses and by the growth in our online programs the online RN-to-BSN program that I mentioned in the upfront remarks and also the Masters degree programs that we have and now the new doctoral program the DNP Doctor of Nursing Practice.
So it's really -- the growth is being driven nicely by both of those channels.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes point taken there.
I guess what I'm really trying to get at is just the impact specifically on startup losses over the next 12 to 24 months whether you see them lessening to improve your margins or the startup loss is getting greater maybe you're opening up new campuses and margins will contract? Good question.
As we've said in the past it takes about a year -- 1.5 years to 2 years before a campus is at breakeven status.
And during that period of time it's about $1.5 million to $2 million of operating expense underwriting.
Now that's in addition to our capital investments.
So this year we've opened 2 campuses.
We obviously opened Cleveland at the beginning of January and expect to open Tinley Park in May.
And next year it's likely that we'll open campuses somewhere in the 2 to 3 range.
And your next question is from Jeff Volshteyn JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Daniel you mentioned in your prepared remarks about scholarships and helping students with the cost.
Can you update us on the size of scholarships in 2013? I think last time you talked about $50 million range? Yes.
That's about right and we would expect to continue to use scholarships strategically here.
And as we go along the great thing is we're learning we're testing we're getting smarter and more strategic in the use of scholarships both to support new students and interestingly to support students who are in school and improve their persistence to graduation rights.
So I'd expect maybe to go on to a question that's maybe behind your question or others may have is "What do you expect for next year?" It would be probably a similar fairly stable as a percentage of revenue.
Just a couple other quick thoughts as you think about modeling Jeff.
One is that while our scholarship still in that low 50s range that we thought about at least at this point given that we have fewer students that some of the scholarships are up a bit in terms of the grant size.
The second thing I would have you think about we did talk about our revenue per student down compared to last year about 3.6% at DeVry University.
I want to give you a little color interestingly that our scholarships -- if you think about pricing the scholarships have offset essentially the tuition increase.
And what we're seeing is that 3/4 roughly of that decline is coming from a mix shift towards our lower-tuition channels like corporate and military.
The other 25% roughly is from lower credit hours per student.
So as you think about modeling those are a couple of things that you might want to consider.
Research Division</strong> That's great that's very helpful.
Let me ask a question on Brazil.
There was an article -- there was a merger announced yesterday between 2 large players in Brazil.
I know it's early innings so to speak.
Would that have an impact on your Brazilian business? Hard to say.
I would like to think not because we know those providers and actually work closely with them.
We've helped to lead a group who gets together to -- created a professional association there to improve standards and practices across Brazil and we're part of that group along with those other fine players or providers.
They tend to target a different demographic different target segment of students than we do.
So we don't -- in many cases we don't directly overlap with them.
So that would be my initial read.
But we'll have to analyze that and see as things go along.
Research Division</strong> Do you know how -- what are the different demographics? How are you different in your students? There's different levels of socioeconomic level in Brazil and we're at a little different level generally speaking than most of the programs I'm familiar with from those 2 fine providers.
I'd also add that geographically we're in a different position and there's a different competitive intensity in the Northeast where most of our institutions are.
That's right.
The Southeast -- Where they'd be more heavily weighted to the Southeast we'd be comparatively more heavily weighted to the Northeast and it's a little bit less competitive where we are.
And we've taken a pretty strong position up there.
So I think it's good.
I think it shows the attractiveness of the market and I hope they execute well on that and continue to serve the students very well.
Wish them the best.
And your next question is from Jeff Meuler Baird.
Research Division</strong> On DVU you obviously continue to cite lower cyclical demand as one of the primary drivers.
I guess you've seen a pretty nice inflection in a couple of your other businesses.
Is this just the cyclical lag from your perspective? Or is it more that your initiatives that you've put in place in DVU have been less successful thus far? It's Jeff probably a bit of both.
I think that we're seeing -- where we're doing better tends to be in areas where we've done a better job of demonstrating and communicating the link to employment so you think about nursing or you think about the shorter-term programs like Carrington.
The longer-term programs at the bachelor's degree level do historically tend to take a little bit longer to recover.
And where we do see those kinds of dynamics at DeVry University there are some programs within that -- within the university like an associates in network technology or an associates in web graphic design and then a bachelors in health care administration where we're seeing stronger performance.
And I think those are the places where we're able to demonstrate that link a little bit better to the strong employment results.
So a mix of the external but we certainly first of all look internally at our own execution and what we can do and work our plan to improve our results.
And we think we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay I guess what point do you consider to being a little bit more aggressive with the initiatives on a DVU? And I ask that from the perspective of -- maybe I'm misreading or misinterpreting what you're saying but it sounds like scholarships are going to be at a similar level next year.
I get the partnerships with corporate and government but that's obviously something you've been doing.
So it kind of leaves just the communications piece and it makes it sound kind of incremental relative to what the trends are there.
So maybe I'm misinterpreting that.
If so if you could help correct me or if not at what point would you consider being a little bit more aggressive with your initiatives? In terms -- it seems like maybe where you're going is being more aggressive on price.
And we actually think we're priced pretty appropriately and we're going to hold the line and take -- and have a freeze which we think will be well received by students particularly in an environment where 75% of U.S.
higher education or actually I should say 90% of higher education on average is going up about 8.3%.
So we think we're priced about appropriately.
We've done pretty aggressive testing.
We've been very aggressive with that.
We've been aggressive if you will with market research on price elasticity.
And we really haven't seen evidence that says if we dropped our price dramatically that -- you'd probably get some more but not enough more to be advantageous.
On the other hand the use of scholarships strategically does make sense.
And that's where I think we have been I think appropriately aggressive if you want to use that word.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick final one.
Can you just help bridge the gap between DeVry Brasil enrollment growth and revenue growth? Is that enrollment growth an organic number? The plus 7.2% total students? The plus 7.2% would be benefiting from the acquisition of FAVIP which would have joined the family in August of 2012.
But we would have fully anniversary'd FBV.
Research Division</strong> But didn't you say that Brazil revenue growth was up 60-some percent? Why is there that large of gap between the enrollment growth and the revenue growth? Well actually -- plus I apologize.
We also have the acquisition of...
FAVIP and FBV.
So it's really timing.
Because that revenue -- we're giving you the point in time on the enrollment and that revenue was a year-to-date number I think across the year.
And your next question is from Jeff Silber BMO Capital Market.
Daniel I just wanted to clarify one thing.
I think when you were talking about the tuition freeze at DeVry University you said next year.
Can you tell us exactly what that means? Yes.
Jeff exactly what that means is when we typically raise tuition July 1 the new fiscal year the new academic calendar year.
And so this July 1 unlike past years it won't go up.
It will be frozen.
That's what I thought.
And are you considering similar measures at any of your other schools? Yes.
At Carrington we will be flat as well.
And a slight increase at Chamberlain.
DeVry Medical and DeVry Brasil will both be up probably in the 4% to 6% range.
So that's how it might trend across the different institutions -- degree-granting institutions.
And I think there's an update here on the previous question.
It's a cloudy day in Chicago so I'm not getting enough vitamin K.
The 7.2% total enrollment growth at DeVry Brasil the prior year period we've included FBV and FAVIP.
So that would be an organic or on a comparable same-store basis if you will.
All right.
Can I sneak in my follow-up? You talked again going back to DVU you talked about inquiries being down.
Were there specific channels that you saw more of this weakness? And are you thinking at all about changing your marketing mix accordingly? Sure.
You're always trying to find those -- the organic the page search.
And that is where it's a little bit more competitive.
And so we are certainly making efforts to improve that to work on better social digital marketing.
A lot of investment being very aggressive there.
At the same time we're being very disciplined if we don't see the opportunity.
We're not going to just chase to chase and we'll be very very disciplined and careful stewards of our owners' capital here.
So it's a balance and just given that lower overall demand it makes it a tough environment because you could just go out there and spend more but we're not going to do that.
We're going to do that only where we see it be a productive return on those investments.
And your next question is from Brandon Dobell William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Dan if you could maybe disaggregate some of your comments around kind of demand and execution kind of breaking apart let's call it associate bachelors and graduates.
And maybe if there's an overlay between ground and online.
I know these businesses are all acting differently.
But I guess I'm trying to get a feel for where you think you've got more visibility into execution issues perhaps or if you see the online business challenged in different ways so different strategies are necessary there than the ground business.
Is it really all just a demand issue for online? Or do you think it's competition or more available seats or different price points? Just trying to get I guess a little difference between ground and online for you with some kind of programmatic comments as well.
Sure yes.
So now I've -- you've painted a mental picture of a matrix of bachelors associate graduate online on-site technology.
Research Division</strong> It's 6 or 7 dimensions I think.
But yes I've got a nice cube in my head and I think we're going to try to work with you on this break that down a little bit.
The interesting dynamic or color on that is that it's not a whole lot different technology programs business programs online on-site.
And actually we think of it as an opportunity that says that we have an opportunity -- we should be doing better in some of the technology programs where we're particularly strong in the graduate employment results.
And so that's an opportunity.
Also online I think we do have some execution opportunities there.
We've had some new members of the management team and as they get in place and further up to speed I think that's an opportunity.
And then I think there's execution opportunities in some new technologies.
For example we've recently been testing very aggressively some interesting new technology that actually takes a look at the conversations that we have with our students and helps us to parse that out and do a better job of coaching our people our staff on how they could be more productive in that endeavor.
And having done a successful a very rigorous test over a long period of time we're now getting to roll that out more broadly and more aggressively.
So I think those are just examples of how we can control our destiny as we have at Carrington and as we have at Chamberlain.
Now we need to turn that same switch at DeVry University.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Should we expect the same kind of I guess pricing decisions scholarshipping price freezes that kind of thing between ground and online in the DeVry franchise or the Keller franchise.
Or are those going to be treated on a case-by-case basis? Pretty much across the board.
It's a little bit of programmatic of course graduate and undergraduate are priced differently but within that we don't do a lot of programmatic pricing.
We used to have a different price for online and on-site.
And over a couple-of-year period we harmonized that.
It took us 2 or 3 years to do it.
And we like that message to our students.
We want to serve our students the way they want to be served and we want to teach our students the way they learn the best with 100% on-site 100% online 50/50 or anything in between.
That's a point of distinction because there's very few universities that can offer that kind of best-of-both on-site and online across coast-to-coast.
And again another very strong message very strong value proposition that maybe we could do a little bit better job of communicating.
So it's pretty much the way it works on pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then final one for me.
Are you guys at all concerned that within the DeVry franchise for some of the bachelors degrees that the marketplace just looks at the terminal degree the necessary terminal degree as being an associates degree now? And this is a lot more common in vocational fields like the culinary for example.
But do you think that the employer mindset or the necessary skills generate the need for an associates degree where for a long time the marketplace has offered bachelors? And therefore the students are kind of pushing back on that longer program and maybe the shift would be towards more associates or do you think you still got good opportunities to drive that longer degree program? We think we still have opportunities to drive that bachelors degree program.
We don't have any evidence that there's a move counter to the long-term decades-long trend toward more education now.
Used to be a high school degree 3/4 of all jobs required only a high school degree.
Now it's 3/4 of all jobs require a college degree.
Used to be high school used be bachelors now you need a masters in nursing.
Used to be diploma then an associates now more and more a bachelors.
So the long-term trend is toward more education as we're in more of a knowledge economy not less.
Again I think it's a cyclical matter here in higher education not a seminal trend.
I wouldn't have any data to say there's a seminal trend toward shorter.
So I think there may be some opportunities though in the near term here to do certificates shorter opportunity -- shorter programs.
You have people chunk it up and give students an opportunity to ladder up their learning as they go but with a view toward a ladder of learning over time.
We think that's an opportunity.
In fact certificate programs at both the bachelor and the graduate level at both DeVry University and Chamberlain College of Nursing have been a bright spot for us.
We're doing very well with certificate programs.
Research Division</strong> And a final one for either Time or Patrick.
In terms of the incremental cost savings that you guys are now talking about should we expect that the show up primarily in DVU given the new enrollment weakness there? Or should it be spread across the different divisions? Largely within our institutions in transition so DVU and Carrington.
And your next question is from Tracy Urdan Wells Fargo Security.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know that we've rehearsed this subject ad nauseum but I didn't catch the nuance of the weakness in the March start.
Would you attribute it primarily to a challenge around leads or inquiries or a challenge around converting the inquiries into starts? Trace really both inquiries and the conversion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned that paid search did you have a feeling that that was a sort of a particularly weak spot there? Yes.
I think there is more bidding going on for that and we have seen some competitors spend a little bit more which is going to lead to that.
And so that has hurt the overall mix that we saw this cycle.
It was a little bit lower-quality mix if you want to look at it that way.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
And then again something you may have touched on that I missed.
The contracting margins in the international K-12 and professional ed segment what do you attribute that to? Is that just a function of the acquisition in Brazil being differently margined or...
The way I think about it while Pat's looking at that is we did see nice operating leverage that came from -- in that segment coming from growth in revenue at DeVry Brasil and in Becker.
So we saw a nice improvement in both revenue and operating income showing some of that operating margin.
LLC Research Division</strong> That gives me my answer then.
So that's an advanced academics issue? They're not doing great but they are a smaller part of that overall mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know it's a minor thing but it was sort of going a strange direction and I was curious about that.
I also want to ask about Dan you touched on RN-to-BSN.
I'm wondering if you could share with us how important that is to the growth that Chamberlain is seeing right now.
RN-to-BSN online? It's an important part of the growth.
We have a really strong program there and...
LLC Research Division</strong> Would you go so far as to say it's driving the growth? No I would say that the growth's being driven as a mentioned earlier Trace both with the online programs highlighted by the RN-to-BSN but not exclusively.
Remember there's the MSN.
There's a number of different MSN or Masters level programs now and more to come a doctoral level online program.
But then the campus-based programs are a nice source of growth as well.
So yes Chamberlain is really performing very well for our students across online and on-site.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And last question on the cleanup slide here.
How should we think about growth in Brazil long term? Where do you see that market growing and where do you see your position relative to that rate of market growth there on sort of a long -- medium or long-term basis? I would say we're very strong in engineer -- so let's start programmatically.
Very strong in engineering as well as in business and law.
We're stronger at the bachelors degree level than in either the associates or the graduate.
So I think those 2 ends are opportunities for further growth for us as we strengthen our programs in both of those areas.
And then I would say again back to the curriculum area health care.
We have a lot more opportunity in health care than we've currently participated in so far.
Then I would also add the geographic dimension.
We're building a lot of strength in the Northeast and we want to continue to broaden -- that's our focus but we're going to look for opportunities to broaden.
And then I guess finally would be modality.
We're mainly on-site programs and we see the opportunity to grow online programs as that modality takes shape and matures in Brazil.
So 3 or 4 veins of growth for us in Brazil and those would come both organically and through acquisition.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that makes it sound like you plan to outpace the overall rate of growth given that you're in these attractive areas is that fair? Yes that would certainly be -- we've done that and we've grown faster than the market and we would certainly want to keep doing it.
Okay.
We just have time for one more question.
That question comes from the line of Corey Greendale DeVry (sic) [First Analysis Securities Corporation].
Research Division</strong> It's David Warner for Corey.
I was wondering if you could comment about the sort of long-term geographical expansion opportunity with Carrington and Chamberlain what your plans are for new locations? Sure.
At Carrington we see a lot of white space there across United States.
In the near term we're really focused on getting Carrington back in the black.
And so we're not anticipating a lot of new campus openings in the near term.
We just think it's the right and responsible thing to do to improve our economics first and then to do that.
Chamberlain on the other hand we see 2 to 3 campuses per year for quite a long time seeing a lot of opportunity.
And that would be both in in-market fill-in as we're doing here in Chicago now with a third location as well as new market greenfield.
So that would be the perspective there on geographic expansion.
And I would like to just take a minute and thank everybody for your questions.
Really appreciate that you keep us on our toes.
Remind everyone that our next quarterly results call is scheduled for August 8 where we'll obviously announce the fourth quarter and full year results as well as enrollment per the schedule.
Thanks everybody for your continued support of DeVry.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to DeVry's Fourth Quarter and Year End Results Call.
The host for today's call is Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joan Bates.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Yusef and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry management are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor statement.
This call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
Please consult our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until September 4.
To access the replay please refer to today's press release for more information.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Daniel Hamburger.
Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
In my remarks I'll summarize our results for fiscal year 2013 and I'll provide segment highlights ending with DeVry University and an update on the turnaround plan.
After Tim and Pat provide a review of our financial results I'll come back and share our vision for the future and then we'll open it up to questions.
So total revenues for fiscal 2013 were $1.96 billion down 5% from last year.
Half of DeVry is DeVry University where revenues continue to be down.
The other half Healthcare International and Professional is relatively strong.
Our long-term formula of quality plus diversification equals growth is helping us as we work through the cyclical weakness in the United States.
Our focus on quality drives student outcomes and lowers regulatory risks and our diversification in high-growth career fields degree levels and geographies all that positions us for long-term growth.
We manage costs aggressively in response to the drop in revenues and we've reduced our expenses over $100 million this year.
While our net income from continuing operations and before discrete items was down 18% we ended the year with a strong balance sheet and solid cash flow.
With that overview let me look to the segments and begin with Medical and Healthcare.
Our revenues and earnings grew nicely.
New student enrollment declined at DeVry Medical International not due to the market demand but because of turnover within enrollment management at Ross University Med School.
This operational issue has been addressed and we're expecting solid enrollment for September.
To accommodate the growth we expect we're going to open a new building at American University of the Caribbean in January.
This new building will house state-of-the-art simulation centers labs and a new testing center.
In recent months we've expanded our medical school's clinical education affiliations as well.
We've added location -- rotations at Winthrop University Hospital in New York; St.
Joseph Mercy Oakland Hospital outside Detroit; and West Suburban Hospital outside Chicago.
At Ross Medical School students are now going to have 2 options for completing the foundations of medicine portion of their degree that's traditionally offered over 4 semesters.
Students can now choose to complete this coursework over 5 semesters which will help them better manage their course load and increase student success.
This academic track was developed successfully by our Dean Dr.
Joe Flaherty when he was the Dean at the University of Illinois Medical School.
We go on to Chamberlain College of Nursing where our strong enrollment growth kept pace with the overall market growth in fiscal 2013 despite challenges from increased competition.
We were competing effectively even with lower-priced state schools students value the quality and the highly regarded degree associated with the Chamberlain name.
During the fourth quarter Chamberlain signed an agreement with Catholic Health Initiatives CHI.
The agreement expands access to Chamberlain's post-licensure programs to nurses across the CHI system.
It's a big system that includes more than 75 hospitals and 40 long-term care facilities.
Chamberlain has nearly 200 such agreements with hospital systems across the United States.
Think about Chamberlain's campus expansions which include both new campuses and expansions at existing sites where there's strong demand while we're expanding our Atlanta and Chicago campuses increasing capacity by about the size of 2 new campuses.
In the meantime we're laying the groundwork for 3 to 4 campus openings that should occur in fiscal 2015 pending approvals.
Chamberlain recently received approval from the Higher Learning Commission HLC for our Family Nurse Practitioner or FNP program.
We're planning to launch that in September.
Our market research indicates strong demand for FNPs.
We continue our record of strong academic outcomes at Chamberlain with an overall NCLEX first-time pass rate of 92% for calendar year 2012.
Moving on to Carrington where we're making good progress on our turnaround plan.
As part of Carrington's plan we're narrowing our program focus.
We thus suspended recruiting for certain non-core programs we did see slightly lower new student enrollment in the fourth quarter but for the year as a whole new student enrollment was up almost 18% demonstrating our commitment to quality in the classroom and student outcomes.
In addition we've successfully improved enrollment trends through stronger brand awareness and a dedicated contact center.
Next let's go on to the International and Professional Education segment.
Note the new segment name as we're in the process of divesting Advanced Academics to focus on growth in our core post-secondary education markets.
I'll ask Tim to give a little more color on that decision when he speaks.
DeVry Brasil revenues grew 78% this fiscal year in local currency 59% in U.S.
dollars to come in just shy of $100 million this year.
On July 1 we completed the acquisition of Faculdade Differential Integral or Facid which serves about 2 500 students and focuses on healthcare programs.
Our business development team had been talking to the owners of Facid for over 3 years and they agreed to sell to DeVry exclusively.
DeVry was Facid's acquirer of choice because of our dedication to quality and to student outcome.
What's really interesting about Facid is that along with the healthcare and the law programs that it offers it's our first medical school in Brazil.
We're very excited about the opportunities for synergies and best-practice sharing across our 3 medical schools.
I'm pleased to report that Faculdade do Vale do Ipojuca or Favip which we acquired in late 2012 has exceeded the expectations of our acquisition plan.
Favip is one of the fastest-growing institutions in Northern Brazil.
And just to remind you it offers degree programs in the areas of law psychology engineering and nursing.
When you take it all together we expect to serve more than 30 000 students at DeVry Brasil this fiscal year.
Becker Professional Education had a good year grew about 4% both organically and through acquisitions.
Becker also signed new partner agreements with Deloitte Saudi Arabia and Deloitte India an agreement with Grant Thornton in the United Arab Emirates.
Becker is a very international organization.
As planned we also officially changed the name of Falcon Physician Reviews which we had acquired and changed that to Becker Professional Education harmonizing our brand strategy there.
Let me turn now to DeVry University.
Clearly we're facing challenges here.
Some of you will remember that we had similar enrollment declines almost 10 years ago and we were successful in executing a turnaround plan.
Well we're confident we'll be successful again.
That's because DeVry University's value proposition is fundamentally strong.
It's a career-focused institution that provides exceptional service and support to students.
A recent Gallup poll found that the factor adult Americans say is most important in selecting a college is the percent of graduates who find a good job.
And this is what DeVry University does.
The latest numbers are in and DeVry University's employment statistics increased more than 90%.
90% of our graduates in the active job market are employed in their field of study within 6 months of graduation and they're earning an average of over $43 500.
That's higher than the median family household income of our students before they enrolled at DeVry University.
Employers see value from DeVry University as they repeatedly hire our graduates to fill their jobs.
They send their existing employees to us for continuing education as well.
New students from our corporate and government partnerships have grown more than 20%.
Today we have more than 400 agreements in place.
We work with corporations including Walmart Xerox Allstate and others.
Three of our DeVry University campuses placed in the top 100 for return on investment in a ranking by PayScale and they rated over 1 000 institutions.
PayScale's report examined the return on investment given the cost situation and the payoff in lifetime earnings.
And out of that we have 3 in the top 100.
Student satisfaction is high as well as evidenced by high and increasing Net Promoter Scores.
We were one of the first universities to use the NPS methodology popularized by outstanding organizations like American Express and State Farm who are well known for providing high levels of customer service.
DeVry University's NPS is on par with these organizations.
So our value proposition is strong but our recent enrollment results at DeVry University are not where we want them to be.
To improve our performance we're executing a 5-point turnaround plan.
One further improve academic quality; two align our cost structure with enrollment levels; three regain enrollment growth; four make targeted investments to drive future growth; and five manage all the change while developing our team.
I'd like to update you on points 2 3 and 4 of this plan.
In aligning our cost structure we're managing aggressively in a challenging environment with the entire organization focused on increasing efficiencies.
Near term we're able to significantly reduce costs through staffing adjustments and by lowering variable costs.
Midterm we're optimizing our real estate footprint.
For example we consolidated locations within markets such as Atlanta Chicago and L.A.
where we have multiple campuses.
Longer term we're focusing on process redesign and restructuring both to lower cost and to make them more variable while at the same time improving service quality.
How do you that? Well one way is through centralizing areas by human resources and student finance to leverage scale efficiencies.
Moving to regaining enrollment growth.
The biggest factors depressing demand at DeVry University as well as the overall education market in the U.S.
continue to include prospective students' lack of confidence in the job market and in the ROI of college.
The plan to increase enrollment starts with sharpening the communication of DeVry University's value proposition which is educational quality career outcomes and exceptional student support.
We'll more aggressively communicate this value proposition including new more focused advertising.
Our plan includes investing $20 million more in media spend in fiscal '14 increasing our weeks on air by about 50% and we're funding this from other marketing areas so our overall marketing spend will be flat.
We recently increased a call to action campaign providing a new Career Catalyst Scholarship of up to $20 000 for eligible students enrolling for the September session.
And we're optimizing the DeVry University website to drive increased site visits and convert more of those inquiries to applications.
We're seeing results from these efforts already.
Affordability is top of mind for students so we've frozen DeVry University tuition this year and we're also making more strategic use of scholarships with 2 clear objectives: tracking new students and improving student persistence.
The Career Catalyst Scholarship program achieve -- aims to achieve both.
It is attractive to new students and it's been awarded in progressively higher amounts over a 3-year period to motivate retention.
Our plan to regain enrollment growth also includes enhancing the effectiveness of our recruiting process.
Part of this is via technology enhancements which is new software to better coach our admissions advisers to respond to the unique needs of each individual student.
In addition we're optimizing our inquiry routing process to improve conversion rates from inquiry to application.
And then Point 4 of our turnaround plan making targeted investments to drive future growth.
Currently investing in the development of new programs such as new competency-based degree programs.
For this program this is going to help students who qualify it will allow those students to complete their degree more quickly and at lower costs.
Above all quality drives everything we do.
You may recall that last quarter we announced DeVry University received reaffirmation of its institutional accreditation from the HLC the Higher Learning Commission.
Our investment in quality was again validated as DeVry University earned specialized accreditation of its business and accounting degree programs from the ACBSP that's the Accreditation Council of Business Schools and Programs.
DeVry University is 1 of just 9 institutions that have achieved separate accounting accreditations since the council began offering that in 2009.
Our commitment to quality also gained Carrington confirmation of its accreditation for the next 6 years from the Western Association of Schools and Colleges or WASC.
As you can see DeVry's institutions demonstrate if you deliver quality for students you'll be recognized by accreditors and regulators.
I'd also like to note that this year DeVry University is celebrating the 40th anniversary of our Keller Graduate School of Management which has graduated more than 50 000 students in its 4-decade history back in 1973.
With that overview let me turn it over to Tim for a discussion of the financial results.
Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
Before I walk through the enrollment and financial results in detail let me give you a bit of a roadmap of what impacted the fourth quarter.
It was a change in classification in 3 discrete items.
In the fourth quarter we decided to divest Advanced Academics thus it's now classified as held-for-sale.
We recorded a $14.7 million restructuring charge of workforce reductions and real estate consolidations.
We booked a noncash goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge of $57 million for Carrington Colleges and we recorded a benefit of $4.4 million during the fourth quarter as a result of an adjustment to an earnout accrual for the acquisition of ATC.
As mentioned in today's press release we're in the process of divesting Advanced Academics.
That means this institution's results are reported as held-for-sale in our income statement.
During the fourth quarter AAI generated about $4 million of revenue and incurred an operating loss of $18.9 million.
The operating loss included approximately $10 million of reserve adjustments primarily related to disputed accounts receivable and a $4.8 million impairment driven by the sale process.
DeVry's revenue from continuing operations in the fourth quarter was $480 million.
For comparison purposes to last year in your models if you include revenue generated by AAI in the quarter of about $4 million revenue would have been down 4.3% in line with expectations.
Second we recorded a $14.7 million pretax charge for restructuring activities.
During the fourth quarter we recorded $8.7 million of severance related to a workforce reduction that will impact about 450 colleagues.
While these decisions were difficult they were necessary for the long-term success of DeVry.
The balance of the charge came primarily from real estate consolidation activities.
During fiscal 2013 we consolidated 8 campuses and 3 administrative offices.
Third we recorded a $57 million noncash pretax impairment charge at Carrington Colleges.
During the quarter we narrowed our program focus which had a negative impact on new student enrollments.
As such we updated Carrington's near- and long-term projections which resulted in a lower estimated fair value.
Going into the first quarter and into next year at Carrington we still expect positive enrollment growth just at more moderate levels.
And fourth we had a $4.4 million benefit from the reversal of an earnout accrual related to our acquisition of ATC International.
Adjusting for the 3 discrete items and the $14.8 million of adjustments at Advanced Academics total expenses in the fourth quarter of $446 million declined about 2% from the prior year and were in line with our expectations.
In fiscal 2013 we were keenly focused on increasing efficiencies and creating value throughout the entire organization.
We began the fiscal year with a target of $50 million in savings and value creation opportunities and I'm pleased to say we've ended the year achieving a total of $107 million in cost reductions at our institutions in transition including Advanced Academics.
And we've made good progress in making our cost model more variable.
Stepping back and looking at the year as a whole we're pleased that we've been able to continue to fund investments in our growing healthcare in international institutions and to reduce cost in our institutions in transition.
Moving on to the detailed financial results.
Fourth quarter total revenues from continuing operations were $480 million.
For the year revenues were $1.96 billion down about 5%.
In the fourth quarter revenues for our institutions in transition DeVry University and Carrington were $287 million down 15% versus the prior year.
This was partially offset by our growing institutions where revenues increased 18% or $193 million.
The acquisitions of Falcon FBV and Favip continue to contribute positively to these results.
Excluding the 3 discrete items I mentioned earlier which total $67 million total operating cost for the quarter were $438 million declining 3.7% compared to last year.
For the full year again excluding discrete items total costs were about $1.7 billion down about 2% when compared to last year.
During the fourth quarter cost -- total cost excluding discrete items at our institutions in transition were down 10% from nearly $34 million versus a year ago period.
This was driven by our expense management and from lower cost that vary directly with enrollment levels including adjunct faculty and bad debt.
We expect total cost to be up slightly in the first quarter driven by a shift of advertising spend at DeVry University largely related to letting students know about our Career Catalyst Scholarship.
We also anticipate higher seasonal spending to support 2 session starts at DeVry University Keller and Chamberlain in the first quarter versus one in the fourth quarter.
Total fourth quarter cost excluding discrete items at our growing institutions increased 14% which was less than revenue growth of 18% demonstrating our disciplined approach to cost management.
Cost of Educational Services decreased about 1% during the quarter.
Costs were down at our institutions in transition by 9.4% year-over-year.
This was partially offset by a 19.2% increase in costs at our growing institutions.
Student services and administrative expense decreased 7.3% as compared with the prior year.
Cost at our institutions in transition were down 13.2% largely reflecting our cost reduction initiatives to match enrollment levels.
Cost at our other institutions were flat compared with the year ago quarter.
We reported a net loss of $32 million for the quarter and net income of $107 million for the year.
Earnings per share from continuing operations and excluding discrete items was $0.54 this quarter and $2.86 for the year.
Our effective income tax rate was 25.5% for the quarter.
We expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for fiscal year 2014 will be in the 13% to 16% range which reflects an increased proportion of international sourced income.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenues of $171 million was up 13.9% in the fourth quarter.
For the year revenue was $672 million up 9.9%.
Medical and Healthcare revenues have grown at a 32% compound annual growth rate since 2008 and now represents just over 1/3 of DeVry revenue.
Excluding discrete items earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter of $28 million increased 98% from the prior year driven by a continued operating income growth at DeVry Medical International and Chamberlain and a significant narrowing of the operating loss at Carrington.
At Chamberlain as you may remember our fiscal third quarter marked the completion of Chamberlain's campus-based realignment from the July November March sessions to a more traditional academic calendar which is September January May.
As a result calendar transition artificially made the May session look better and the July session look worse than they actually were.
To help you better understand the impact we broke out online and on-site new student enrollment results in today's release.
At Carrington as we noted on last quarter's call we didn't expect to continue achieving the large enrollment gains you've seen over the past few quarters.
New student enrollment was slightly negative this quarter as we narrowed our program focus.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment revenue of $61 million increased 21.6% in the quarter.
For the year revenue of $197 million increased 25.8%.
At DeVry Brasil revenue increased 55% this quarter driven by the acquisitions of FBV and Favip as well as organic growth.
We continue to explore growth opportunities in Brazil both through organic expansion into new programs and locations as well as through acquisitions.
Given our decision to divest Advanced Academics it's no longer part of this reporting segment.
Excluding discrete items segment earnings of $18 million increased 25.9% during the quarter versus the prior year driven by increased operating leverage within DeVry Brasil and Becker.
For the year segment earnings were $47 million up 22.3% excluding discrete items.
And finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenues of $248 million were down 17.7% during the quarter versus the prior year.
Revenues of $1.1 billion were down 15.9% for the year.
DeVry University experienced a challenging quarter with new student enrollment down 19% in May and down 25% in July.
Total student enrollment was down more than 18% in May and 16% in July.
Based on what we're seeing today we expect September new student enrollment to be better than July but still down likely in the mid-teens.
DeVry University undergraduate revenue per student was down just over 0.5 percentage point in the fourth quarter and down 1.4% for the year.
The decrease for the year was primarily driven by higher scholarships and aid and higher mix of students from our corporate and military channels.
Excluding discrete items total segment expenses for the fourth quarter decreased 10.8% as compared to the year ago period and 9.1% for the year.
For the quarter excluding discrete items the segment generated a loss of $900 000 compared to $22 million of operating income last year.
This was driven by the revenue decline and resulting margin compression.
Note that our fourth quarter is our -- is seasonally our lowest.
Segment earnings were $99 million down 51.9% for the full year.
Looking at fiscal 2014 we expect all of our institutions to grow revenue except DeVry University.
But the decline in revenues at DeVry University will more than offset the growth expected at all other institutions.
So we expect total revenue will be down for the year.
We expect total cost and expenses to be down again at our institutions in transition in 2014.
Total cost and expenses for DeVry University and Carrington were just under $1.175 billion in fiscal 2013.
We expect to further reduce these costs by $60 million in fiscal 2014.
In total cost reductions at institutions in transition are expected to be offset by cost increases at the growing institutions so we expect fiscal 2014 cost and expenses to be similar to fiscal 2013 levels.
As part of the $60 million savings goal we anticipate an additional restructuring charge related to a voluntary separation program occurring in the first quarter.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Well thanks Tim.
And good afternoon everyone.
Our liquidity and financial position continue to remain solid.
Cash flow from operations for the full year was $264 million.
Our cash and marketable securities balance was $200 million at June 30 2013 compared to $177 million last year.
Our net accounts receivable balance was about $140 million versus $93 million last year.
The higher accounts receivable balance was a result of a change in timing and the receipt of federal financial aid.
Those funds were subsequently received in July.
Capital spending for the full year was $112 million versus $125 million spent last year.
Our capital spending was down because of our continued focus on prudent capital deployment and because we delayed a couple of projects.
Fiscal '14 we expect total capital spending to be similar -- to be in a similar range.
During the quarter we repurchased over 185 000 shares of our common stock for about $5.5 million or an average of $29.87 per share.
For the full year we repurchased about 2.2 million shares at $53.9 million or 24 point -- $24.47 per share.
Our share repurchases were significantly lower this past quarter as we paused the program in mid-May to conserve capital.
As we've stated in the past our rate of repurchases will modulate from time to time as we retain financial flexibility to pursue growth and diversification opportunities.
Overall our financial position and cash flow generation give us the flexibility to reinvest in quality and growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Okay thanks Pat.
Before we open it up to questions I'd like to just spend a minute to share our vision for the future.
We have a strong plan to turn around our near-term results.
Where does that take us long term and what's that going to look like? DeVry's long-term vision focuses on 3 areas united by a single theme which is career-oriented education.
The first area is U.S.
business and technology education.
There's a large and growing need for skilled employees in these kinds of fields and DeVry University excels at filling that need.
And we also focus on students who value extraordinary service and support that DeVry University provides.
This combination of careers and support results in high levels of graduate employment and in student satisfaction.
The second area is Healthcare.
We've been building our capabilities in healthcare education since 2003 when we acquired Ross University.
With workforce shortages in many healthcare fields DeVry's institutions serve the need where the need is greatest which is in primary care physicians nurses medical assistants.
As the population ages market data shows that these workforce needs will only grow.
And then the third area is International and Professional Education and Educational Services clearly leverage DeVry's capability in global markets.
In Brazil we serve 30 000 students in areas of high demand in medicine business engineering and law.
We're also a leader in global professional education with Becker providing services in 55 countries.
We envision further growth in outsourced Educational Services sharing our decades of expertise with other universities associations and corporations.
DeVry is differentiated the only publicly held group that operates medical schools or veterinary school is one of largest nursing schools in the United States and complemented by a growing international presence.
Increasingly our students are enrolling across institutions with Carrington grads going to Chamberlain to attain bachelor's degrees Becker students dual enrolling in Keller programs Chamberlain students co-sitting in DeVry University classes and DeVry Brasil students studying at our U.S.
institutions.
Diversification mitigates risk and enables DeVry to weather economic cycles better than our peers over the long term.
And diversification also helps us to attract the best talent as our colleagues have better career opportunities across DeVry's family of institutions.
DeVry's combination of quality plus diversification is helping us as we work through the cyclical weakness in the U.S.
and we remain confident that we're very well positioned for long-term growth in career-oriented education.
Think back just a decade ago DeVry comprised DeVry University and Becker Professional Education.
We served under 100 000 students.
Today we serve more than 160 000 students through a dozen institutions offering diverse educational services in high-demand fields.
Our revenues are nearly $2 billion today versus $680 million 10 years ago.
It's quite an achievement and when we take a step back we think our name should reflect who we are today.
So when we file our preliminary proxy next month you'll see that we're proposing a name change.
Our current name DeVry Inc.
has been around for decades.
And for most of that time DeVry Inc.
was DeVry University.
Many people don't realize that DeVry is such a diverse family of institutions.
We think a change can better communicate this.
And after researching various options we decided on DeVry Education Group.
We kept DeVry because our research showed that DeVry has very high name recognition and wanted to keep that equity included "Education" because that's what we're all about and the word "Group" reflects our diversity of operations.
It's more appropriate than "Inc." for a family of educational institutions.
One place you will see the impact of the name change is at collocations.
Our potential students can see the many career paths available through our global family of institutions.
We think the name DeVry Education Group better reflects the diversified organization that we have become.
To wrap up I'd like to thank all DeVry colleagues for their hard work in fiscal 2013 and most of all for their dedication to DeVry's purpose to empower our students to achieve their educational and career goals.
Now we're very happy to take your questions.
Yusef if you could please give those who are in the queue the instructions for asking questions we'd appreciate it.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Corey Greendale from First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> When I heard you were changing your name I was hoping you'd do something to honor your heritage and go with maybe like Norm Levine Inc.
or something like that.
Yes and we looked at Taylor Colleges couple of those.
And we already have Keller of course.
So...
Research Division</strong> Anyway.
So I was hoping you can elaborate on the Career Catalyst Scholarship.
How are you going to be communicating that to prospective students in your marketing? How does that differ from the scholarships that you've been offering? Sure.
We'll we're communicating it via media as well as online and digital social.
You may have seen some of the new television commercials that's part of what we mean when we say media and our increased investment there.
It is going well and generating excitement out there and so we're encouraged.
How is it different? It differs in a couple of ways.
It is focused both on attracting new students but also sort of 2-in-1 also helping to encourage students to stay in school retain and graduate in that it offers increasing levels of scholarship in each year that the student stays in school.
So it's $5 000 $7 000 $8 000 to get to the $20 000.
And of course at DeVry University you can get a 4-year bachelor's degree in just 3 years so it's sort of key to that part of the value proposition of speed to the degree as well.
And it's part of the holistic scholarship strategy where we could -- when we step back and look we had scholarships what we needed to tighten the scholarship strategy.
There were just too many programs and we're really consolidating our firepower and consolidating the dollars behind these 2 objectives of attracting new students and helping students persist and graduate and the Career College -- Career Catalyst Scholarship is focused on both.
Research Division</strong> Can you help us think what the year-over-year impact will be in terms of revenue per student and the dollar increase in scholarships versus fiscal '13? Sure.
Corey it's Tim.
Good question.
Let me give you a couple of things a couple of data points.
At DeVry University undergrad for the year our revenue per student was down about 1.4%.
And so if you think about really there's 4 things that impact revenue per student: First is tuition; secondly is credit hour load/full-time pricing; third is scholarships and aid; and fourth is channel.
When we think about what happened in fiscal '13 what we saw is that scholarships and aid were up in absolute dollars and the percent of revenue up about a little over 1%.
We also saw an increase in channel where we have special pricing and so that impacted it.
And then tuition and full-time/credit hours kind of washed each other out.
So what you really saw there was the impact of increased scholarships.
As we look at fiscal '14 we think that the scholarship aid and we're kind of combining those 2 together will be about the same in absolute dollars.
But given that we expect lower revenues it'll increase as a percent of revenue.
So we're looking at a decline of revenue per student next year in kind of the 1.5% to 2% range and that's all predicated on how this Career Catalyst Scholarship goes and kind of keeping an eye on what's going on around us.
So I think those are some ways that I think about it.
Hopefully that will give you some further insight.
Research Division</strong> Yes and just one last quick one for me and I'll turn it over.
In your view Daniel is debt sensitivity price sensitivity really the issue? So in other words do you think that by offering sort of more generous scholarships that should pretty meaningfully impact the enrollment numbers? Or how do you think about that? We think that there is some sensitivity today -- in today's world right now.
Again the Career Catalyst Scholarship is not the reason to go to DeVry University.
The reason to go to DeVry University is for the value proposition careers and the support.
The reason to think about going now is the -- a little bit of help here and that's why we call it the Catalyst.
It's a catalyst to get you on your way towards your career.
So that's kind of how we think about it.
Our next question comes from Trace Urdan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on that line.
Is the -- when the student enrolls with this scholarship are they guaranteed that the program will stay with them during the time that they're enrolled? Yes.
That's right Trace.
LLC Research Division</strong> And does it apply to students who are reenrolling for a second or third year? It has to be new -- yes new students.
New students.
Exactly.
New students qualify.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it your expectation that it has been introduced in time to have an impact in the fall term? Yes.
We do think that it will help us out in September.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there any other sort of distinctions that are made in awarding of the scholarship? Are there differences by program area or any other dimension to it that is worth mentioning? It's for undergraduate.
DeVry University so it's not the -- well actually no there is graduate as well.
There are -- you have to qualify so there's...
LLC Research Division</strong> Is it need-based? It's not need-based.
It's merit-based.
You have to have certain test scores.
You have to -- that's really it it's really based on test scores.
So -- but it's not differentiated -- I hear where you're going Trace.
It's not differentiated by program.
We've looked at that and we actually did a technology program scholarship previously and so we're open to that and we'll continue to test that.
But this particular Career Catalyst is across all programs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then there was a ton of data in the release and also in your prepared remarks.
So I apologize if this is in here somewhere and I've just missed it.
But can you tell us what the acquired revenues were in the quarter for the new school in Brazil and the acquired operating income as well? Trace this is Pat.
Facid was acquired on July 1 2013 so there was no impact in the fourth quarter of this past fiscal year.
Obviously we'll -- that will be consolidated in our results starting now at this first quarter of the current fiscal year.
We are overlapping one acquisition from Brazil which would be Favip which we acquired in August of 2012.
And that's impacted -- positively impacted revenue about 150 basis points in the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what -- Pat what about operating income can you...? It was accretive but we don't break that out.
Sure.
And it sure is nice to have an acquisition start on July 1 so it's nice and clean for everybody good for your model.
Our next question comes from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Daniel I'm just trying to understand better to the extent I can the weakness in or the continuing weakness in DeVry University.
Can you give us any color in terms of maybe enrollment trends by programmatic offering and whether there's some big disparities there? Okay.
That was supposed to be Trace's question but it's good that you asked it.
We really didn't see a difference in technology versus business to any great degree.
So nothing to report there.
There are a few programs we're excited about.
Accounting is a bright spot.
Electronics engineering network systems administration.
I would say that the other dimension you have in July is -- historically was a little bit more high school relative to -- or direct out of high school traditional college aid student relative to the working adult.
And given that we found that some of the metros just were not as effective.
Part of our restructuring program last year was to pull back so we are -- we're still focused on the high school student and serving them.
We're still committed to that.
We still see great opportunities long term.
But for the near term we're in turnaround mode so it's a time to pull back a little bit there.
And so that probably disproportionately impacted July a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 other questions.
One the consolidation of campuses did -- can you quantify the impact that that might have had if any on the enrollments? And then unrelated to all this the specific decision to pause repurchases in the fourth quarter what was behind that please? In the campus consolidation we were -- consolidating campuses primarily in very close geographic regions either from a lease that would expire that we chose not to renew or some where we did lease buyouts where you saw the charge.
But pretty small.
We didn't expect -- don't expect much impact there.
In the buybacks so as we said as we've laid out our capital allocation strategy in the past is to reinvest in the core acquisitions share repurchases and dividends and we would modulate that from time to time.
Quite frankly we were trying to target a cash balance of around $200 million.
We wanted to end there to position us well as we moved into fiscal '14 so that was also a driver of our -- of the decision to pause the program.
Research Division</strong> Is this -- should I read into that then perhaps an expectation that you've got something coming up relatively soon from an M&amp;A standpoint? Well obviously Peter we have a longstanding practice of not commenting on that.
But I think as Pat said we would just want to retain financial flexibility to continue to pursue growth and diversification opportunities.
Our next question comes from Sara Gubins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to confirm you're not planning to spend more in scholarships next year.
It's really that you're consolidating other types of programs with this.
So if that's right is the thought really that you'll get more efficiency out of better communicating this program as to -- as opposed to actually more dollars? Yes.
So Sara it's Tim.
Yes the dollars of scholarship at DeVry which is kind of where we're really focused will be similar.
And as I mentioned given the declined -- declining revenue it will be an increase as a percent.
But we're moving money between scholarships and aid.
And you're exactly right we're trying an approach to have fewer ways to really reach out to students and put more emphasis on them.
So the Career Catalyst really is a strategic focus.
We'll see how that plays out here in the September class.
Research Division</strong> And could you remind us how much you spent on scholarships in fiscal '13? Fiscal '13 we had talked to you about something in the low-50s for DeVry total and we were slightly above that I think mid-50s.
And that's just scholarships but we're also -- there are other ways that we entice students to come with us and that includes aid it includes our special pricing for channel and also for the full-time discount.
But for the total scholarships across the system it was a little higher than we had last told you which was the low-50s and came in around mid-50s.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then as we take out Advanced Academics in prior quarters out of revenue and cost for modeling purposes is there any seasonality in revenue or cost that we should try to take it out of historical for 2013? There's been a little bit.
Generally the first quarter of the year for Advanced Academics the revenue was a little lighter in that you don't have the full benefit.
The school session starts kind of September -- August September as well as advertising tends to be a little bit higher in the first quarter of the fiscal year then kind of even from there on out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last Daniel in your discussion about thinking about the future you mentioned towards the end you might consider doing more outsourced services.
Could you talk about where you are in this process? What kind of capabilities you're thinking about and if that's something that might be launched soon? Yes we do it now.
It's already launched.
For example the National Association of Realtors which is the largest trade association in the United States with about 1.1 million members one of the key parts of their value proposition to their members is member education.
They wanted to launch a master's in real estate.
They actually created a realtor university it's going to be an accredited university and look for a partner to help them get that launched.
And after talking to many different potential partners we're pleased to say they selected DeVry.
And in terms of the capabilities that you asked about the capabilities we have are actually pretty impressive if I can say so myself.
We have 1 500 1 700 people.
We serve about 500 000 course takers a year in online programs.
So we have capabilities of instructional design of the technology the hosting the student services helping to recruit and manage faculty student services financial aid.
So there's a whole sort of value chain of capabilities.
And of course we always set up the online capabilities here as a center of excellence to serve DeVry University and Keller and Chamberlain and Carrington Ross et cetera.
So it's always been set up that way but there's no reason we can't serve other institutions who are not part of the DeVry Education Group proper and that's what we were talking about.
Our next question comes from Jason Anderson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question back on the scholarships.
In regards to the Career Catalyst I believe it requires 9 credit hours or continuing 9 credit hours.
Is that above your average course load? It's a little bit -- yes it does require that level of enrollment that's right.
And I think that is slightly above the average the course load.
It's really designed for full-time students.
That's really the program.
So we have a mix of part-time and full-time students today.
So this one is really designed to stimulate students to come and to come in a full-time capacity where we think it gives them the best value prop to get the special pricing for full-time to get done quicker.
So it's really to encourage folks to come and work through quickly.
That's where they get the benefit of this Catalyst Scholarship.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any figures like on the average or I guess percent of students on scholarship either across all your scholarships? Or what you would expect on this one? And maybe what the average scholarship might be per -- or maybe what you expect to be per student? Sure we've got that.
Yes so with respect to DeVry University undergraduate average award is about $3 600 per year so think of that that's $600 per 6 session or $1 800 per a typical semester.
And then about 1 in 4 of our undergrad students receive a scholarship.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a little bit more I mean you mentioned the $50 million over 3 years I'm just wondering if you could give us some more color on how you came up with that? And if you'd -- maybe if you have early success here with this as you -- you see you might have in September would you consider increasing I'd -- I guess I would think that the retention benefits and maybe some increase in course load might help more than pay for the revenue reduction? Yes.
Exactly Pete -- I mean Jason that's what we're hoping for that's what we're expecting to see.
And so we want to take a look at the results after this class sits and then go from there and see if it makes sense to continue the program or expand it.
And we'll keep you posted.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could sneak in one more.
On your corporate channel you mentioned the special pricing or the discount.
Have you -- would you mind being able to disclose that to us? I'm sorry remind us if you already have I apologize.
I don't think that -- I'm not sure if we have or not but they can range in the 10% area.
For very large organizations it can be more than that where there's a large number of students coming your way.
I was going to say Jason a couple of things.
One the Career Catalyst is designed in September.
It's targeted at about 25% of our students.
And the second thing is in that channel we also have military which has a significantly lower price for the active military folks.
Those are some other things to keep in mind.
Our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the revenue per student when you're talking down a couple of points for 2014 fiscal '14 was that just for DeVry or was that the entire organization? That's DeVry University undergraduate.
We would expect for example to have increased revenue per student at the medical schools where we have some pricing Chamberlain College of Nursing up slightly.
Research Division</strong> But for DeVry in the first fiscal '14 quarter will you be down more than that because of the scholarship? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just kind of looking at the BMT division.
Is that going to be breakeven or low-single-digit margin in fiscal '14 roughly? Well a couple of data points.
At the segment level our peak margins were over 20% kind of the low to mid-20s.
We're working really hard to drive cost out and we think in a kind of a more stable environment that trough margin should be in the high single digits.
So we aren't going to get there in fiscal '14 because we know it takes a while to get the cost out and we're seeing these declines.
So depending on the year it goes out I think you're in the right ballpark.
We did have a segment loss in the fourth quarter.
We'll have lower revenues in the first quarter which is unusual for DeVry University by the way.
But just given the rollout of what's happening here you ought to be thinking about that in your models.
So those are some things for you to consider.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just some housekeeping questions.
You were kind enough to give us the Carrington losses for fiscal '13 a year ago.
Can you update us for fiscal '14? Then just 2 more.
I thought the AU expansion was going to be for September.
Has it been pushed back to January on that campus -- that building opening? And then finally can you just remind us the exposure to the high school channel in July and what it would be in September? And any -- I guess obviously high school was weaker than overall but it was materially weaker than DeVry undergrad new enrollment or not that much weaker? Okay.
I'll try to play traffic cop on this multipart question very creatively done which I would say AUC yes.
We're thinking fall but our Dean felt that it was appropriate to push that back to the January session to make sure -- absolutely sure that the facility is ready for students and we trust her judgment on that.
It will be able to accommodate our students for September so that was the reason for pushing that back to January.
In terms of high school students I don't have a number for you in terms of the percentage of the class but it's not a big percentage.
Are you talking about in July? Here's what I think about it.
If you go back a couple of years our high school in July represented about 1/3 of our new students.
If you fast forward to the next year it was about 25%.
If you look at it this year it was about a 6%.
So it's been declining.
And on Carrington if you look at it on a fully allocated home office cost basis the number that we would have provided last year for fiscal year '12 would have been in the low-30s and narrowing that loss to the mid-20s in fiscal '13 on a fully allocated basis.
And excluding discrete items.
And excluding discrete exactly.
Our next question comes from Tim Connor with William Blair.
Where does enrollment counselor headcount stand for DeVry undergrad and Keller versus the same point last year? It's really down.
It's down.
I don't have the number.
Well we haven't broken that out in terms of specific numbers but there are fewer here today than they were a year ago yes.
Okay.
And then I'll kind of follow up on on a previous question.
But it seems like even up until earlier this year you thought you might get back to the positive starts growth in DeVry undergrad.
And you mentioned the lack of confidence in the job market but it seems like the path really diverged from where you thought it went.
So was there anything else or was there any single catalyst that took you from there to here? Tim I can tell you what's changed is the environment.
And looking around not just DeVry's universities certainly not just private sector but it's really bled now over to institutions in -- across United States particularly non-healthcare.
And I think we've all seen articles a couple of weeks ago in New York Times talking about that I just saw St.
Mary's College in Maryland and Loyola University in New Orleans down 1/3.
We're hearing a little noise on the line here.
Let me check can you hear me? [Technical Difficulty] So it's really the kind of a tale of 2 economies out there.
The top half of the economy is doing really well and many others are really suffering.
And so I think there's that less -- the decreased confidence in the job market in the return on investment and going to college.
Why should I go to college? I'm not sure that jobs are there.
Now the ironic thing is we know the data shows that's not true.
The data shows that the returns on education are very high some economists say higher than they've ever been before.
We've run through all the facts and figures.
It sort of feels like the cycle is coming back in that the employers are very much coming after our graduates.
And so at some point that's got to cycle through the front end.
We haven't seen that yet.
I would say in the near term based on what we're seeing today we would expect September new students to be certainly better than what we saw in July.
So probably still a decrease could be double digits but not in that 20% range that we saw in July.
Our next question comes from Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I jumped on late so sorry if I missed this.
But what was the Advanced Academics' operating loss in the quarter? I know that there were several pieces to their loss but what was just the operating loss? Yes if you adjust for the impairment and the other charges it was about $8.2 million.
So if you take the 3 discrete items off our -- the face of our income statement it was $505 million of expenses less $67 million.
Then if you add back the $8 million of operating loss it gets you to where we think you ought to be in terms of comparing with your model.
That's expenses of what is it Pat $445 million? $446 million.
$446 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then would you guys be willing to give an approximate run rate for what Brazil EBITDA including all of the acquisitions is including the new one from July 1 but what the Brazilian EBITDA run rate for you guys is? And I know in the past you said that on an after-tax basis the profitability was similar to the core.
But not quite sure when you said that so I'm not quite sure what we should imply from that for what an EBITDA or an after-tax margin is.
And I'm asking this because obviously the Brazilian equity markets are putting much different multiples on the Brazilian publicly traded private sector schools than what the U.S.
are.
So just to the extent to which investors would want to do a bit of a sum of the parts I was hoping you could give us some color there.
Well a couple of thoughts.
We're not going to give it you right now.
But a couple of data points.
One is that they exceeded $100 million of revenue this year.
And you recall maybe 5 6 months ago we talked about them hitting $90 million.
So they had a good acceleration.
If you take a look at our disclosures in our filings you'll see that there's a minority interest line.
And so if you just look up the percent of the ownership that the minorities have and you back into what their earnings are.
So try that.
Okay Yusef I think we're going to have to wrap it up.
Okay.
Well listen I -- this is Daniel again.
I'd like to thank everyone for your questions as we wrap up the year.
Our next results call is scheduled for October 24 when we announce fiscal '14 first quarter results.
Thanks everyone for your continued support of DeVry.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the DeVry Education Group First Quarter Fiscal 2014 Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Ms.
Bates the floor is yours ma'am.
Well thank you Mike and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from the DeVry Education Group leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor statement.
This call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
Please consult our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until November 21.
To access the replay please refer to today's release for more information.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Thank you Joan.
Thank you all very much for joining us today.
Let me begin with an overview of first quarter and segment highlights.
While the story for DeVry Education Group right now is at 1/2 DeVry University is still struggling our other institutions are doing well and growing.
DeVry University in Houston enrollments were better in September than in prior sessions.
The turnaround plan at DeVry University is producing early signs of improvement.
But we are operating in a challenging and choppy environment in U.S.
business and technology education.
And we expect these conditions could continue for a while.
At the same time we are investing in our growing institutions particularly healthcare professional and international education.
Our long-term formula of quality plus diversification equals growth continues to help us work through the cyclical weakness in U.S.
business and technology education.
Our focus on quality drives solid student outcomes and our diversification in high-growth career fields degree levels and geographies positions us for long-term growth.
So with that overview let me touch on a few highlights within our segments.
I'll begin with the Medical and Healthcare segment where revenues and earnings grew nicely.
In DeVry Medical International new student enrollment grew 5.7% as expected.
Long term given market demand we think a sustainable rate of enrollment growth in our medical schools is in the low single-digit range with revenues and earnings higher than that.
Let me provide some perspective on why medical education is so attractive and why it's such an important part of our diversification strategy.
First the supply/demand imbalance in medical education.
In 2012 there were more than 45 000 qualified applicants at U.S.
med schools.
But given limited capacity U.S.
schools were able to accommodate less than half that demand.
Second it's projected that by 2025 the physician shortage in the U.S.
alone will total more than 130 000 with more than half the shortage in primary care.
Our graduates go into primary care double the rate of the U.S.
average so we're meeting the needs where the needs are greatest.
And most importantly our medical schools produce strong student outcomes.
For example our graduation -- our graduates retain high pass rates in Step 1 of the U.S.
Medical Licensing Exam.
At both Ross and the American University of the Caribbean the pass rate is 96%.
That's on par with U.S.
medical students.
Our medical schools also have very low cohort default rate only 1.1% at both Ross and the UC.
We have alumni practicing in every state in every Canadian province and in nearly every area of medicine.
At AUC we'll open a new academic building in January.
It will feature an advanced anatomy lab and simulation center a large integrated clinical medicine lab a lecture hall and individual and group study spaces.
Since we acquired AUC a couple of years ago we've invested $35 million in academic quality and campus expansion to better serve our students and to meet the demand for well-trained physicians.
Moving onto Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine.
We recently announced that as part of our partnership with the Moredun Research Institute in Scotland Professor Clare Hamilton has been appointed to a research fellowship in zoonotic infection.
These are infections like rabies that can be transferred from animals to humans.
Zoonotic research is a synergy that we can leverage by running both veterinary and human medical schools.
Chamberlain College of Nursing delivered strong enrollment growth this quarter as the solid demand for nurses continues.
I'm proud to say that Chamberlain now serves a record 15 000 students which makes us one of the largest nursing programs in the U.S.
Chamberlain is distinguished by a value proposition that's centered on academic quality and on service excellence that we call Chamberlain Care.
Two of our recently launched graduate programs are helping to support our growth.
These are the Family Nurse Practitioner and the Doctor of Nursing Practice.
Increasingly nurses are seeking post baccalaureate degrees to improve their career opportunities.
To accommodate the demand for our qualified nurses we're investing in Chamberlain's expansion.
Mayor Rahm Emanuel recently helped us cut the ribbon on a major expansion in our Chicago campus.
We hope you can come to our annual shareholders meeting next month so you can see it.
Another expansion is underway at our Atlanta Campus which will double the capacity of that location.
We received approvals for our campus in Troy Michigan that we expect to open in summer 2015 and we received the initial approvals from the New Jersey Board of Nursing for our new campus there.
Chamberlain exemplifies our commitment to academic quality.
In September a number of Chamberlain faculty received one of the highest honors in nursing.
Dr.
Dee McGonigle professor in our Masters program was inducted as a fellow at the National League for Nursing Academy of Nursing Education.
She was 1 of 28 distinguished nurse educators across the U.S.
selected for that honor this year.
Now moving onto Carrington.
We're making good progress on our turnaround plan.
Total enrollment was up for the fourth consecutive quarter.
New student enrollment was down because of our academic calendar.
During the quarter we had one less start than we did in the same period last year.
Tim is going to provide comparable enrollment data in a moment.
Let me just note that we've now given 3 consecutive quarters of revenue growth and 3 consecutive quarters of expense reduction at Carrington.
Next the International and Professional Education segment.
DeVry Brasil's revenues were up and total student enrollment increased.
New students were down in the last semester.
I've asked Tim to give you some more detail on enrollments that we hope you'll find helpful.
DeVry Brasil's reputation is strong and growing and we've really become an acquirer of choice in Northeast Brazil.
Our 3 most recent acquisitions -- transactions were done on an exclusive basis not through an auction process.
We feel very good about the academic and economic value that we're able to create through acquisitions.
Becker Professional Education also had a good quarter with revenues growing about 3%.
During the quarter Becker signed an agreement with EduPristine to offer our CPA test materials to exam candidates in India's largest cities.
The CPA market remains steady while the other 4 markets that Becker serve are good growth opportunities namely the U.S.
Medical Licensing Exam the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Project Management Professional and Continuing Professional Education.
We turn now to Business Technology and Management segment.
One of the factors impacting demand in DeVry University as well as higher education across the U.S.
continues to be prospective students' lack of confidence in the job market and hesitancy to make the commitment to go to college.
The recent government shutdown didn't help.
We saw a downturn in Internet searches across education and in our own inquiries within days of the shutdown announcement many students worried that federal aid might be stopped and indicated they were going to wait until the uncertainty clear up.
And put yourself in the shoes of a single mother who is thinking about enrolling in college or a government worker on a furlough or a military student.
With the shutdown you worried that federal aid might not be there.
And this becomes one more reason to potentially put off the decision to go to college.
We believe this is a micro-version of the larger macro story we've seen in the last 2 years.
Enrollment has historically fared well during economic downturns but the prolonged high unemployment has given many potential students pause that they're just not sure the jobs are going to be there when they finish their program.
To this point the Career Advisory Board which was established by DeVry University recently conducted a study that said that nearly 40% of job seekers lack confidence that the job market would improve next year.
We believe this is why we've seen even community college enrollments down 2 years in a row despite their low tax-subsidized price and why we've seen reports of many traditional independent institutions missed their enrollment goals by 10% or 20% or even 30%.
It's not an issue isolated in only the private sector institutions but it's an issue across post-secondary education in the U.S.
All this leads us to think that there may be pent-up demand building to be released as the economy improves.
Now our recent enrollment results at DeVry University improved in September but we're still facing this challenging environment.
In response we've put in place a 5-point turnaround plan.
And that's number one to further improve academic quality; two align our cost structure with enrollment levels; three regain enrollment growth; four to make targeted investments to drive future growth; and five to manage the change process while at the same time developing our team.
Let me update you on our progress in some of these areas.
First academic quality.
You may recall that in the past few quarters we've announced academic milestones including reaffirmation of DeVry University's institutional accreditation from the Higher Learning Commission and earning specialized accreditation of our business programs from the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs.
Well during the first quarter DeVry University achieved another academic success.
The Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology re-accredited DeVry University's on-site Bachelor's programs in Biomedical Engineering Technology Computer Engineering Technology and Electronics Engineering Technology.
We know there've been questions about accreditation problems at some other schools.
We believe that if you deliver quality for students it'll be recognized by accreditors.
Second in aligning our cost structure we continue to manage aggressively.
The entire organization is focused on increasing efficiencies.
We've reduced costs through staffing adjustments through consolidating certain functions and by lowering variable costs.
We're still on track for at least $60 million in savings and value creation for fiscal 2014.
Longer-term we'll continue to optimize our real estate footprint.
We're also working on process redesign and restructuring to both lower costs on a sustainable basis to make them more variable while improving service quality.
As part 3 of the plan regain enrollment growth.
You'll recall that we're implementing a new approach to attracting students to DeVry University including call-to-action events.
These are integrated university-wide events to drive more internal and external energy at certain points in the year.
The September call-to-action event included a new Career Catalyst Scholarship of up to $20 000.
Now for this we consolidated multiple smaller scholarships into a single bigger program to facilitate communications with a stronger impact.
And we did a better job of telling prospective students about scholarships earlier in the process.
Now it's important to note that our improved performance in the September class was about -- was more than just the new scholarship.
Successful elements of this broader call-to-action event included a clear message with a benefit to students in the sense of urgency and included enhanced media to support that message everything from traditional media right down to changing out the literature in every rack in every campus simultaneously.
It included a whole school approach where every department played a role training over 2 000 people on the initiative in 2 days and metrics to track the event on a daily and weekly basis.
So I hope you can see that this is an integrated effort rolled out university-wide that generated momentum and got the whole team energized.
And they did a great job.
In point 4 of our turnaround plan making targeted investments to drive growth we're currently investing in the development of new competency-based degree programs.
These will allow students who qualify for the programs to complete their degree more quickly and at lower cost.
We realized competency-based programs are a hot topic right now and what's new is a total competency-based program but note that we've run competency-based courses for several years so we really do have experience with this form of learning.
So that's an update on DeVry University's turnaround plan.
We used a similar approach at Carrington where we launched a 5-point turnaround plan put the right people in place to execute it and the result enrollment was up in the last 12 months even in a difficult market.
So this is how we're responding and this is why we believe we can control our destiny.
Now lastly before I turn it over to Tim DeVry Education Group is gearing up for the Winter Olympics in Sochi Russia and our role is an official education partner of Team USA.
We're educating over 120 student athletes and can potentially have as many as 14 from our institutions competing for spots in these games.
One athlete Elana Meyers is vying for a place on the U.S.
Bobsled Team.
She's also studying in for an MBA at Keller Graduate School of Management.
Now when asked how she possibly have time to do both she said "The answer is Keller." Keller's program gives her the flexibility and support that her schedule demands.
We're excited for her and proud to help her achieve her career aspirations while she reaches for her Olympic dream.
So now I'd like to turn it over to Tim.
Thanks Daniel good afternoon everyone.
Let me start with the overall financial results.
First quarter total revenues from continuing operations were $451 million.
Revenue grew at all our institutions with the exception of DeVry University.
We also had 3 special items during the quarter.
First we recorded a $12 million pretax charge for restructuring activities related to a voluntary separation program and real estate optimization.
The voluntary separation program was offered to DeVry University and our home office colleagues.
Second we recorded $1.9 million in pretax gain on the sale of the former DeVry University Campus in Decatur Georgia which was part of an earlier real estate optimization.
Finally we recorded an impairment charge related to the write-down of Advanced Academics' carrying value to its fair market value.
In the first quarter revenues from our institutions in transition DeVry University and Carrington were down about 16% versus the prior year.
The revenue decline was partially offset by our growing institutions where revenues increased almost 15% to $180 million.
The acquisitions of FAVIP and Facid in Brazil continue to contribute positively to these results.
Excluding the restructuring charge and gain on sale of assets totaling $10 million total operating costs from continuing operations for the quarter were $431 million essentially flat versus last year.
During the quarter we continued to reduce cost at our institutions in transition.
Total cost excluding special items at our institutions in transition were $252 million down 7% versus last year.
Total first quarter cost excluding special items at our grow institutions increased nearly 17% to $137 million.
This is driven by the investments we're making to support future growth.
Costs of educational services increased by 1% during the quarter.
Costs at our institutions in transition were down 8% year-over-year.
This was more than offset by a 22% increase in costs at our growing institutions.
The increase was largely driven by the impact of the Facid acquisition and higher costs to support enrollment growth at DeVry Medical International and Chamberlain College of Nursing this quarter.
Student services and administrative expense decreased 1% compared to the prior year.
Costs at our institutions in transition were down 5% largely reflecting our cost reduction initiatives to match enrollment levels.
As we discussed with you on our last results call we shifted advertising spend at DeVry University into the first quarter to support the university's call-to-action.
So without this change cost would've been down even more.
Costs at our other institutions grew nearly 6% largely driven by the impact from acquisitions and supporting growth within Chamberlain.
We reported a net loss of $7.1 million for the quarter and a loss of $0.11 per share.
Net income from continuing operations and before special items was $14.2 million.
Earnings per share from continuing operations and excluding special items was $0.22 this quarter.
Our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 17.3% for the quarter.
We expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for fiscal 2014 will be in the 15% to 17% range.
And this reflects an increased proportion of internationally sourced earnings.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with Medical and Healthcare segment revenues of $176 million was up 11% during the first quarter.
Excluding restructuring costs at Carrington earnings for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter were $26 million representing an increase of 4% from the prior year and reflecting investments we're making in future growth initiatives.
At Carrington revenues grew 3.6% and total students were up 1%.
Reported new student enrollment was down because we had one last session start in the quarter 5 starts in fiscal 2013 and only 4 the fiscal 2014 and because we're in the process of teaching out several low enrollment programs.
In this transition year we expect Carrington revenues will grow in the low single-digit percentage range and we expect expenses to be down year-over-year in the mid-single digit percentage range.
If all goes as planned that means that Carrington will exit the year with positive operating income.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment revenue of $44 million increased 18% in the quarter.
At DeVry Brasil revenue increased nearly 36% this quarter.
This was driven primarily by the recent acquisitions of FAVIP and Facid.
We continue to explore growth opportunities in Brazil both through organic expansion into new programs and locations as well as through acquisitions.
Total students increased 11% at DeVry Brasil in September again driven by the acquisition of FAVIP and Facid.
New students declined 9% primarily because of temporary admissions restrictions for 3 programs at one of its institutions Area1 located in Salvador.
We're working with the Ministry of Education to have these restrictions lifted and expect that to occur in the near future.
Segment earnings of $1.1 million declined by $2.3 million as compared to the prior year reflecting investments for expansion and growth.
Finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenues of $232 million were down 18% during the quarter versus prior year.
New student enrollment at DeVry University for September 2013 session was up slightly compared to the prior year with total students down 16.3%.
DeVry University undergraduate revenue per student was down 3.7% in the of first quarter primarily as a result of the higher use of scholarships over the last several sessions including the impact of the Career Catalyst Scholarship and the first quarter.
Excluding special items total segment expenses for the first quarter decreased 8% compared to a year ago period.
As expected and excluding special items the segment generated an operating loss of $5 million compared to $26 million of operating income last year.
This was driven by lower enrollments and the planned shift of advertising and marketing spend to support the September call-to-action event.
We expect DeVry University to return to profitability for the second quarter and for the balance of the year.
Continuing our look at the second quarter we expect all of our institutions to grow revenue except DeVry University.
While total costs of expenses will be up slightly compared to prior year we expect them to be down slightly on a sequential basis.
Costs at our institutions in transition are expected to decline both year-over-year and sequentially.
We expect total costs at our growth institutions to increase sequentially in line with revenue growth.
Now I'd like to give you some additional perspective on what we expect in terms of margin performance in our BTM segment.
Among other factors let me discuss our strategy for scholarships enrollments and expense management.
We're focusing our scholarships on 2 overarching objectives: helping prospective students start college and improving their persistence once they're here.
We're becoming more strategic in the use of our scholarships and in many cases reallocating money from one program to fund the other.
Our current thinking is total scholarships for DeVry Group will be up about 30% in fiscal 2014 from the mid-$50 million to the low $70 million range.
The majority of the increase is to support enrollments at DeVry University while we also work to shift dollars to increase effectiveness.
With higher spend and lower planned revenue in fiscal 2014 scholarships as a percent of revenue will increase putting downward pressure in revenue per student.
Enrollment and expense management also impacts our margins.
Declining enrollments have meant smaller class sizes and lower utilization of our campuses and faculty.
Given the fixed nature of our expenses this has resulted in negative operating leverage.
Just a few years ago BTM margins where in the mid-20%.
Last fiscal year BTM margins have declined to 9%.
We're working to make our cost more variable but given the nature of costs like real estate it takes time to make the necessary adjustments.
Last year we achieved more than $100 million in savings and value creation at our institutions in transition.
And this year we're on track to achieve at least $60 million of additional cost savings and value creation.
So near term we'll continue to experience margin compression given revenue weakness and resulting loss of operating leverage.
We expect BTM margins to be in the mid-single digit range in fiscal 2014.
Longer term our return to modest levels of enrollment growth in a stable pricing environment should produce margins in the mid- to high-teens range.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Thanks Tim.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our liquidity and financial position continue to remain solid.
Our cash flow from operations for the quarter was $140 million and our cash and marketable securities balance was $312 million at September 30 2013 as compared to $250 million last year.
Now our bad debt rate continues to reflect the value proposition of our programs and our teams focus on student financial aid the collections process.
For the quarter our bad debt expense as a percentage of revenue was just 2.1%.
While this was unchanged from last year it is one of the lowest among private sector colleges and universities.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $183 million versus $167 million last year.
The higher AR balance was the result of revenue growth from our medical and healthcare institutions and from the impact of the Facid acquisition in Brazil.
Now capital spending for the first quarter was $22 million versus $26 million spent last year.
Our capital spending was down because of our continued focus on prudent capital deployment with targeted investments in healthcare and international.
Now we expect capital spending for the first -- for the fiscal year to be within $115 million to $125 million range.
Overall our strong financial position and cash flow generation gives the DeVry Education Group the flexibility to reinvest in quality and growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
And before we open it up for your questions I'd like to comment on our priorities for growth and diversification.
Our first priority is to invest in the growth of our healthcare education offerings.
With strong workforce demand in many healthcare fields including projected shortages for doctors and nurses over the next decade DeVry's institutions serve where the need is greatest such as primary care physicians nurses and medical assistants.
And with strong student outcomes including completion employment and exam scores our healthcare graduates are benefiting from our commitment to high-quality educational programs.
That our priority is international and professional education.
We'll continue to leverage DeVry's capabilities new markets around world.
In Brasil for example we serve nearly 30 000 students in areas of high demand like medicine business engineering and law.
Longer term we see expansion across Latin America and in Asia.
Becker is a leader in professional education in 55 countries today with a great platform upon which we can add new programs and new countries.
And we'll continue to invest in our U.S.
business and technology programs with a focus on academic quality student services and new programs.
DeVry Education Group's revenue now comprises about 50% U.S.
business and technology education about 40% healthcare education and about 10% international and professional education.
As our healthcare professional and international offerings increase our new name DeVry Education Group reflects this growing diversity and highlights the fact that we serve educational markets across many industries and geographies.
So to wrap up our commitment to quality and our investments in diversification will drive our future growth.
In fiscal 2014 we'll continue to focus on executing the turnaround plans at our institutions in transition while investing in the expansion of our healthcare professional and international institutions.
So now we're eager to hear your thoughts and questions.
So Joan please turn it over.
Great.
Mike if you could please give our participants the instructions once again on how ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] The first question we have comes from Trace Urdan from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the scholarship.
It seems as though it was pretty effective in this quarter.
And I know that this quarter has had perhaps disproportionate number of traditional high school students that are taking advantage of it.
And so I wonder if you might speak to its relative effectiveness against the different kinds of students that come into DeVry meaning traditional high school students versus working adults and whether you perceive the difference between those 2 audiences.
And in particular I'm wondering because I know earlier in the year you had talked about having some difficulty with the high schools given that you're an evil for-profit school and that they have been more resistant to letting you come in and talk to their students.
And I wondered if the sort of positive start showing in September was a sign that maybe we're getting past some of that? Thanks Trace.
I understand your question and I'd like to be able to be more enthusiastic about that.
But I think it's a little early to say that.
The analysis that we have shows that it was effective.
It was effective.
And it was effective in relatively similar proportion across the different segments of high school and working adult.
And for that matter business or technology programs.
It didn't sort of skew in any one direction or the other.
It was pretty nicely across-the-board.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to follow up from that then Daniel the difference between the July start and the September start which seems to be positive movement.
Do you think that that represents a trend line? Is that a blip in the volatile ever-changing environment? How should we think about that? Yes excellent.
Thank you.
I understand the question and -- choppy.
We expect November to be down not like July.
So it's choppy like we said it would be.
So we had July down 20-ish; September flat; November down; last nothing like July we don't think.
I would say that we were doing better here for the November price but in October we had this government shutdown.
And so within days we saw Internet searches generally and our own inquiries in particular decline.
And in fact many of you probably online saw Tuesday's Wall Street Journal.
I didn't even realized -- I've always followed the Consumer Confidence Index.
Gallup does not have a daily Consumer Confidence Index.
And by the end -- let's put it in perspective.
The end of may the index was at negative 1.
It was the best reading since the financial collapse of 5 years ago.
When the government shutdown hit October 1 the index plunged to negative 35 and then troughed at negative 43 as the shutdown persisted.
So this is sort of like I said a microcosm of this bigger macro trend is that lack of confidence.
So I think that received a little bit of an impact there on this November class that's forming.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up on the follow-up.
Did any amelioration of that since the government has going back to work? Or so you think there is a residual hangover from the lack of confidence in early October.
Little mixed signals.
We're seeing some positive signals.
But I'm not from Missouri but sort of show-me.
So there is some reason to think that it did pop up again even in days after the shutdown sort of got released.
So it is interesting how consumer confidence particularly among the segments that we tend to serve at DeVry University it's very sensitive to these things.
And we saw that back in August of '11 when we had the first sort of debt ceiling debacle and meltdown.
That's when things really kind of started in this whole cycle.
So maybe a little picked up but we'll have to see.
Next we have Sara Gubins Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you help us think through the impact on revenue per student for undergraduate given the scholarships? I estimate that it hit by about a little more than 2.5% this past quarter and I'm wondering if that's reasonable and if that's sort of how we should think about it going forward or if it would have more of a negative impact? Sarah it's Tim.
Good question and certainly an important topic.
We saw our revenue per student down 3.7% from the year-ago period.
It's similar to the July although there are some seasonality.
But most of that came from the scholarships.
And interestingly the Career Catalyst Scholarship was about 20% of the impact.
Now think about that because we use to scholarship in September.
So we only had 1 month of the scholarship playing into it.
A lot of the impact came from scholarships that we've been ramping up over the last several sessions given the weakness that we're seeing.
And those scholarships kind of -- some of them come home.
They're not just a one-off.
So we saw this adjustment of about 3.7% most of it was scholarships.
And most of it was not from the Career Catalyst Scholarship but from some of the momentum we've seen in other programs.
Research Division</strong> I was just going to ask about Keller.
We don't have start data there.
But when we look at course takers the declines have continued to accelerate there.
Are you seeing anything that gives you hope that that might begin to improve? Yes.
What gives me confidence is the Keller value proposition and we're continuing to enhance that.
We'll be rolling out more of what you might call an executive MBA or pending approvals which is a shorter format for students who'd have a little bit more experience and can transfer in credits if you will other new programs at the graduate level and doing a better job of telling the Keller story.
I think whenever we -- and we've done this a little bit more in the last couple of years doing maybe a little bit more noise about Keller which traditionally we did very little with for example broad-based media like television.
People respond.
So when we get to the plate we have a very good batting average.
We just need to get to the plate a little bit more often and tell the world a little bit more about the wonderful programs that we have at Keller.
Next we have Corey Greendale First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> First I want to ask about student persistence just based on the numbers.
We can calculate it looks like it declined in the quarter.
But I realized we don't have all the data you do.
Did it in fact decline? And if it did is there any you would attribute that to particularly? Persistence has been sort of in the -- it is actually trending up a little bit right now at DeVry University.
It is at Chamberlain College of Nursing as well doing well with Carrington.
At DeVry University the long story is sort of we're on a macro trend over the last several years of improvement through many of the investments that we've made in student services and academic quality and academic support tutoring support centers all of those sorts of thing.
And we did take a little bit of a blip in the first half of last fiscal year then recovered a little bit and then a little bit of choppiness as we started this year but feeling pretty good about it overall.
So it does move around a little bit.
But overall not an area of concern.
It's an area that we're pleased and want to see more improvement continue there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I hate to ask you a DC question but I will.
When I read the proposal for the new gainful employment regulations before the Neg Reg I immediately thought of DeVry given that they went back to the 10-year repayment period.
It looks like the potential unintended consequence turning school's focused on bachelor degrees.
Could you comment on the proposal and what do you think that some of your programs could kind of get crosswise with the regulation unintended or not if it's in its -- the form they're proposing? Well you make a good point about unintended consequences.
And of course the real answer is we don't know because we don't know what the final will be and we always made a practice of not really commenting on pending legislation or regulation.
But in general we want high standards.
The key is we have to get it right just like Secretary Duncan has said many times.
It's important that we get it right so that we don't have unintended consequences just like you said.
It harms students who are in quality programs.
My favorite example is the last time around at 1.0 when they issued repayment data and it showed that Harvard Medical School would have failed the test.
So that kind of showed you that sometimes maybe the test is a form of test or in the form of program.
I think we'd all agree.
So that's we're hoping and expecting to see here.
We certainly are -- in fact we're very actively engaged in the dialogue with policymakers.
And our main message is we want high standards not arbitrary standards high standards.
And we want to get it right so there's no unintended consequence.
The next question we have comes from Jerry Herman of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question is about the front end of the pipeline and starts in particular.
Daniel can you give us a little bit more color in terms of the funnel if you will i.e.
leads and conversion rates and maybe some help just in terms of what the Catalyst Scholarship did to sort of get students over the hump? Sure.
Inquiries we like to use the word inquiries.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
Yes sure.
We're actually I think down a little bit.
But with it you got to really peel that onion very carefully and we do.
We have metrics to look at this what we call higher quality more likely more motivated type of student inquiries we're up.
So if that was a direct result of working our plan doing a better job of a sharper message more media to support that message stronger digital better website techniques and technologies to help move those prospective students along in the process or conversion if you will.
And that all came altogether with a lot of hard work and excellent -- student service excellence from our people to produce the result that we saw.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow-up can you talk to us about the participation rates of that program i.e.
sort of the percentage of new students that are accessing or opting in.
And then a higher level question you mentioned weakness in demand for technology programs generally.
You guys focus on bachelor programs.
But in this market it would appear that students are focusing on maybe lower-end credential or diploma programs for more rapid turnaround.
Can you talk to market share your feelings about your market share relative to potential changing market dynamics? Okay.
Let me take that second part first and then maybe Pat will give us the color on the percent.
I forgot the scholarship I think about 20% 25%.
We have not -- I hear your hypothesis about shorter programs being more attractive and I think there are a lot of people who've said that.
But we haven't really seen the associates in the certificate segment of the market pick up in a major way.
Now Carrington is doing better but we think they're sort of retaking our share within a fairly weak market.
We do think that that concept makes a lot of sense and one of our strategy is to tap into that.
So I think that's a long-term strategy long-term trend of starting with a shorter program and then maybe moving up the ladder of learning.
And internally we call that vertical DeVry so start at Carrington and then we have articulation agreements set to Chamberlain College of Nursing so they may start with an associates and then move to the Bachelors of Nursing or start at Carrington and then move on to DeVry University.
So we have teams working very hard on that and we've seen some nice flow-through if you will.
And it gives -- what gives us confidence is that we've done it before.
We have a very nice cadre cohort of students who start at DeVry University with a bachelors and then move on to the masters degree level at Keller Graduate School of Management and that's a pretty significant flow-through for us now.
And it took a long time to get there and we're very proud of that.
So that's how I kind of think about that.
And then in terms of participation rate yes about 2 000 students.
So that's what percentage? About 25%? Yes.
About 25% Jerry of the new were able to take -- were able to qualify and take advantage of -- remember you had to qualify for the Career Catalyst Scholarship test into it and so forth and some criteria to qualify.
Thanks.
The next question we have comes from the location of Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just two questions.
On AUC when that new building opens in January would we expect to see a bigger enrollment in that period maybe higher than the sort of mid single digits? Or do you think you will grow that or building or extra class just slowly? And then second just in Brazil was it a regulatory restriction and what caused that or what's the actual cause of the restriction? Okay.
So AUC I think you should -- because we show that DMI in total DeVry Medical International and we think that a nice responsible growth rate is in the low single digits for enrollment.
And then revenue and then earnings growth respectively will be higher than that.
There are just continue steady demand for medical education.
So no I wouldn't expect sort of a sudden an increase with the new building but just part of a nice steady plan.
With Brazil the restrictions were a result of the periodic review that the Ministry of Education conducts.
It affected some of our engineering programs.
It also I should note affected many similar institutions both private sector and traditional institutions.
The good news is we've taken remediation steps and we've received a positive report from the ministry.
So now we're sort of waiting simply for an administrative process to get the final approval and move forward and we're working with the ministry and expect a positive outcome on that in the near future.
The next question we have comes from Jeff Volshteyn of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Daniel can you comment on sort of maybe diversions and direction between the retention and persistence or are they kind of moving in tandem with each other currently and going forward? I'm sorry the difference between retention and persistence? How do you [indiscernible]? Research Division</strong> That's right.
Underlying retention and persistence the way we can calculate it.
In other words either material change in the number of graduates that will be coming through the system or declining? No.
I don't see a bubble or a spike there nothing sort of out of the ordinary that I'd be putting into the model.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up we haven't discussed it in a while what's the general state of clinical spot availability for medical students and residency spots for your grads? Sure.
It's always an area that we pay a lot of attention to and we have to be very very careful and very diligent there we do.
In some specialty areas there are some tightness.
But in the end we're able to provide the clinical education that our students need.
And then our graduates then move on into the residency match.
They did come down a little bit.
There were some changes in the match system that had some impact.
And we've got a plan in place and our deans are working hard on that to help our graduates be better prepared for the match and compete with certain segments in particular of the U.S.
schools as well as the AICPA schools as well as the non-U.S.
citizen international students.
And we think we can -- our graduates can go toe-to-toe and compete with anybody.
Next we have Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Tim you gave us some helpful comments on normalized margins or where the margins can go for the Business and Technology unit.
I was wondering for the company overall if you could talk about what you think reasonable expectations might be for margins over the next couple of years sort of a pace at which you could get to that level? Sure.
So for the organization overall we'd like to say.
Tim you want to comment on that? Sure.
I think we've come down from an operating margin perspective from the teens three [ph] currently is looking at high single digits.
I think really it's a function of giving enrollment stability at DeVry University.
And we're excited that when we get that that really allows us to stabilize our results and allows the growth that we're seeing and we're really encouraged about in our other parts of our organization to really drive our results.
So I think really the open question is how and when we can get that stabilization at DeVry University and then that really unleashes kind of the institution -- overall institution's operating leverage.
Research Division</strong> Well so let me put words in your mouth then.
So you basically said mid-teens operating margins I think for Business and Technology which is essentially DeVry University right? That's right.
Research Division</strong> And so if the existing business stayed where it is currently might that not imply mid- to high-teens margins for the enterprise overall? Well you could run the math.
We don't provide the forward guidance but we're excited about the prospects of even modest growth and what that does for us at DeVry University.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then one follow-up on the Brazil situation the restrictions.
Does that have a significant impact on profitability on a near-term basis? And how quickly could you get back to enrollment growth there do you think? And then just sorry one last thing on that with sort of opportunity for further acquisitions should we be anticipating something in the next 12 months potentially? Well maybe I will take the last part and then -- we are continuing to look at acquisitions at DeVry Brasil.
If you ask me specifically about the acquisition you'll always get the same answer which is we don't comment on potential acquisition.
But in general I can tell you that we have a good pipeline.
We have strong resources in terms of our team that is out having those conversations and that I really do feel good about the work that this team has done to put us in a position of being what I often call sort of the "acquirer of choice" and that we have sort of direct private conversations with owners of institutions there who are looking -- so maybe there's a generational transfer that kind of thing and having direct conversation then wouldn't have to go through an auction process and all of that disruption and sometimes price implications.
So the -- it's hard to put a number on it.
But I can tell you there's tangible value to be ascribed to the work that our team is putting there in that regard and their ability to drive value academically and economically through acquisitions in Brazil.
We feel very very good about on it.
So the near-term margin growth outlook Tim can you...
Yes.
So Peter one of the nice things about DeVry Brasil in addition to the growth is that we've seen nice leverages as the institutions have grown from kind of the -- and by the way they're very tax effective but we've seen kind of low-teens operating margins grow to the mid-teens.
We're in a pause period where what's really happening is at AREA1 is it's just slowing our organic growth.
We're also making some investments to make sure we have the platform to grow again but we think the short pause -- and by the way one of the recent acquisitions was -- had a little lower margins but we're really again excited about the growth.
So I'd think of us in kind of a pause a very well-ran organization as we digest these regulatory changes or issue and then I think we can continue with modest growth in terms of both -- well modest growth in terms of our operating margin there.
Next we have Jeff Mueller of Baird.
Research Division</strong> On DVU Daniel since all we really have externally is the starts number and it's been bouncing around like crazy for a while now could you just help us? How much of this improvement this quarter do you think is kind of catching some favorable variance? And then how much of it can you more specifically pinpoint to your turnaround plan? And I mean things like you stepped up your marketing spend how much can you attribute to better response rates after you hit the gas on marketing spend? How much of it seem to be driven by people calling about the scholarship? Just anyway you could help us out in figuring out how much is volatility how much is end market and how much is your turnaround plan.
Well I think that it's more internally driven right now.
We really didn't see any particular change in the overall external market.
And as you look across private sector and public sector and independent institutions who we are competing for similar student demographics I think you'd find that to be the case.
So it does -- the data does seem to indicate that the team executed very well on the plan and that was the main driver of the September performance.
Research Division</strong> And how important is the increased marketing spend in Q1 to that? And I guess if it is important why not continue it at that level? Well what we've done and will continue to do is spend on marketing and communications to tell the world about our wonderful institution where we see opportunities to do that productively and with an economic positive NPV if you will.
And we will discipline about that.
We won't go beyond that.
Certainly that's not our intent to go beyond that.
And I think some others have sort of maybe done that and then they pull it back.
We're a little bit more planful and consistent in that regard.
So where we see those opportunities we're going to go ahead and do that.
We did plan did a plan shift into the first quarter and we think that was effective.
We did execute on this call-to-action event including the scholarship but not limited to that as I described earlier.
It was much more than the scholarship.
And that had a positive impact.
And as we've analyzed the economics of it it's a positive investment.
It wasn't just sort of growth at any cost if you will.
So we're encouraged by that.
At the same time we want to make sure like anyone that you don't saturate things by doing this event every single time and then it loses something in the process.
So it's a balance and we're looking at other call-to-action events for other points in the year as we speak.
And we'll definitely keep you posted on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then DVU persistence just based on the roadmap calculation it looks like it's quite a bit lower this September than it's been in past Septembers.
And it sounds like you never had a bubble or a spike in terms of graduates.
And I thought you said persistence was trending up.
Was there anything in terms of timing of ongoing starts or anything like that that would've impacted that? No.
And we're kind of scratching our heads of how you got this.
So maybe we -- offline we could try to help set things straight on that.
Next we have Tim Connor of William Blair.
As we look at Brazil it seems like there's been a pretty unique set of circumstances that's created a very favorable environment for growth.
Are there other countries that you think internationally that you think have similar set of circumstances where regulation can be a tailwind or there's a real area in the market that's open for full profit investment? Yes.
Tim that's a great question because you're right.
Brazil is one of the most attractive markets besides United States for running private universities and graduate schools and professional schools.
But it's taken a long time to get here.
I mean it was 3 years of investigation and analyzing and looking at potential entry vehicles and then it's been another 3 or 4 years since then to get us to the position where we have the platform that we have today.
I think it'd be quite difficult for others today who are trying to start to maybe replicate that.
And then looking beyond that there are other countries across Latin America and there's some natural sort of synergies that you could think about why we would say that.
And then you look to Asia where there's just tremendous growth for the long term a need for education and increasing rates of college going behavior and the countries that have -- that are welcoming to private sector participation as part of the solution to meeting education needs.
So I'd say Latin America and strictly Southeast Asia.
And then in the healthcare field you got a number of brands and you've got a number of careers covered.
Are there areas within healthcare that you feel like you need additional coverage or that you could add additional coverage in? Yes there are.
And we are looking at broadening the participation in other graduates and bachelors level.
But it's the number of graduate programs that looks interesting.
So yes there are definitely other opportunities within healthcare.
[Audio Gap] Comes from Paul Condra of BMO.
I just wanted to follow-up on the shutdown.
You mentioned DeVry University impact but did you see the same kind of impact at the other schools like Carrington and Chamberlain? Yes we did.
We saw Chamberlain have an impact there not so much at the pre-licensure level but a little bit at the post-licensure level some of the online programs there.
And I would say it was mainly those 2 institutions Chamberlain College of Nursing and DeVry University.
Okay.
So maybe a little -- I don't know a little noise from that then next quarter I guess.
Yes.
Unfortunately I think that's going to be the case.
We're working very very hard to offset that.
Like I said earlier when Trace was asking some reasons for -- some positive signs but I've just learned from painful experience that once you have a little glitch like that it can be hard to recover your momentum quickly within days.
So it's a little bit of a nail-biter on forming that November class.
Okay.
And then one follow-up.
I wanted to know if you can talk a little about capacity at DeVry University.
I imagine there's some empty seats there and I just wonder how you're thinking about that over the next year how you're going to use that space.
Sure and if you want to add.
I would just say that the main headline there is you're right there's a lot of capacity that means that there's a lot of opportunity for margin expansion as we fill that relatively fixed cost platform.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
And at the same time where we think that there is enough of that it's not going to be filled on a timely basis we are taking action and that's part of the real estate optimization activity that we've reported on and that'll continue.
So it's -- maybe the space availability is kind of centered in certain geographic areas or is it kind of evenly distributed? Yes more evenly distributed.
We have a number of opportunities within markets where we have multiple locations where maybe as we have consolidated a couple of locations that are nearby.
And we're still able to retain the vast majority of the students and service students in that metro.
Those are some opportunities that we see.
Paul just to add a couple of things.
It's Tim.
I would say that our capacity is less than 50% utilized.
The challenge is that as we look at optimizing the real estate we find that many of these locations are incrementally positive contributors so we have really the dilemma of how do we support our students.
And if we were to make changes or reduce locations you end up having revenues go out the door at similar amounts to the savings.
So I think it's something that we need to continue to work on and there is no silver bullet here.
But I think other than doing a good job of articulating our value proposition in getting enrollment and get the positive operating leverage back.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Well this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Daniel Hamburger for any closing remarks.
Sir? Okay.
Thank you Mike and I'd like to thank everyone for your questions and remind everyone that our next quarterly results call is scheduled for February 4 when we will announce our fiscal 2014 second quarter results.
And I just want to thank everyone for your continued support of DeVry education group.
Have a great afternoon.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time.
The conference call has now concluded.
We thank you all for attending today's presentation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and take care everyone.
Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 DeVry Education Group Results Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Joan Bates Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Ms.
Bates the floor is yours ma'am.
Thank you Mike and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from the DeVry Education Group leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'll now paraphrase our Safe Harbor statement.
This call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
Please consult our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings for a more complete description of factors that could affect our financial results.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until February 26.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for more information.
With that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
The story for DeVry Education Group right now remains at 1/2 DeVry University still struggling while our other institutions are doing well and growing.
We're operating in a challenging and uncertain environment in U.S.
business and technology education.
At the same time we're investing in our growing institutions particularly health care professional and international education.
Our long-term formula of quality plus diversification equals growth continues to help us and our focus on quality is driving solid student outcomes; and our diversification in higher-growth career fields degree levels and geographies continues to position us for long-term growth.
So let me turn to our segment highlights for the quarter and I'll begin with the Medical and Healthcare segment where revenues and earnings grew nicely.
At DeVry Medical International or DMI total enrollment increased 5.6%.
New student enrollment declined modestly.
As we discussed previously we had turnover in enrollment management and marketing position at Ross University School of Medicine which has been addressed but it's taking time for the new team to improve operations in those areas.
We think a sustainable rate of enrollment growth in our medical schools is in the low single-digit range with revenues and earnings higher than that.
At American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine our new $30 million academic building opened in January.
It features an advanced anatomy lab and simulation center a large integrated clinical medical lab a lecture hall and individual and group study spaces.
But during the quarter DMI's Medical Education Readiness Program or MERP completed its move from Freeport Grand Bahamas to Miramar Florida.
MERP is a 1-semester program for applicants who benefit by extra preparation prior to medical school.
The program is now co-located with our clinical site there.
Not only is this a more efficient use of our real estate the new location benefits these students academically giving them an opportunity to interact with clinical students and faculty as part of their transition to medical school.
Let me move on to Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine where we continue to make investments to support academic quality.
Dr.
Sean Callahan (sic) [Callanan] has joined us as Director of Postgraduate Programs.
Degrees will be offered at the master's and Ph.D.
levels including zoonotic infectious diseases and conservation medicine.
These new degree programs provide opportunities for students to gain advanced research experience that's relevant to important human and animal health issues in tropical and developing countries.
Introduction of these new advanced degree opportunities aligns Ross Vet with the best international veterinary programs.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we delivered strong enrollment growth this quarter as the solid demand for nurses continues.
We'd like to highlight how we're investing in Chamberlain's campus-based bachelor's programs.
I'm happy to report that we successfully moved from preliminary approval to full approval at our first Houston location.
In addition the Texas Board of Nursing recently granted approval to open a second Houston area campus.
Today Chamberlain has 13 campuses with 3 new locations in the pipeline for fiscal 2015: Troy Michigan; Las Vegas; and the second location in Houston.
Further adding to our capacity we completed the expansion of our Chicago campus this fiscal year and the build-out is underway at our Atlantic Campus.
These projects will almost double the capacity of those 2 locations.
On the post licensure side of Chamberlain 2 of our recently launched graduate degree programs exceeded our expectations and those are family nurse practitioner and doctor of nursing practice.
Our MSN program which includes the family nurse practitioner taught a record number of students last session.
Chamberlain also exemplifies our commitment to academic quality.
Chamberlain Jacksonville professors Sonia Maria Balevre and Park Balevre were inducted into Great 100 Nurses of Florida by the Florida Nursing Association.
Moving on to Carrington.
We're making good progress on our turnaround plan with revenues growing 3% in the quarter.
Part of the plan has been to bring the 2 colleges together.
In early January we announced the Carrington College California received conditional approval from its accreditor to add the campuses of Carrington College to its existing campus network.
Just as a reminder Carrington has been composed of 2 separate institutions.
First Carrington College California has 7 campuses and is regionally accredited by WASC Junior.
The second institution Carrington College has 10 campuses and is nationally accredited through ACICS.
Pending successful site visits and final approval by WASC the result will be one regionally accredited institution with 17 campuses in 7 states.
Academically as one college students will benefit from the unification of knowledge experience and talents of the faculty and program directors at both institutions.
Operationally the combination will allow us to pool resources so Carrington can operate in a more efficient and effective manner.
Once fully implemented we estimate that we'll reduce expenses by $3 million to $4 million annually while improving the student experience.
As the combination is completed it's very important to note that quality continues to drive Carrington's turnaround plan and return to growth.
In a most recent student satisfaction survey Carrington's Net Promoter Score increased 6 percentage points from an already impressive level.
At the same time Carrington is doing well by doing good in its community.
In December Carrington students participated in the Central Arizona Dental Society Foundation's Mission of Mercy event providing free basic care to 2 000 patients.
We're confident in the future of Carrington as we execute our turnaround plan and continue to move towards positive enrollment growth and positive economics.
Next the International and Professional Education segment.
Let me remind you that within DeVry Brasil we have 14 campuses across 6 institutions.
At Facid which was acquired in July and serves about 2 500 students in health care programs including a medical school our integration has exceeded expectations.
At Favip I'm very pleased to report that just last week we received official notice that the Ministry of Education has granted the institution Centro Universitrio status.
For those of you less familiar with the education system in Brazil there are 3 categories of higher education institutions.
First faculdade which is -- it's kind of a college and it's made up of approximately 2 000 smaller-sized institutions.
There's also Centro Universitrio which is about 140 medium-sized institutions.
And then there's universidade university obviously which is made up of about 200 larger institutions.
This new status is a marker of quality and enables us to add programs and seats more quickly including rolling out online programs.
I'd like to congratulate the team who've worked hard for 7 years to realize this major accomplishment.
At AREA1 please recall that last quarter we described temporary enrollment restrictions in 3 programs and that we were confident we had a strong remediation plan in place.
Well we're happy to report that these restrictions were lifted in 2 of the 3 programs and that we expect the restrictions in the third program to be lifted soon.
And finally in this segment in December we completed the divestiture of Advanced Academics to Connections Education which is a part of Pearson.
As part of the agreement we formed a strategic partnership with Connections that establishes DeVry Group institutions as their preferred provider for postsecondary education provides early college programs to their students and facilitates blended learning for Connections' students at our campuses.
This transaction helps us tighten our focus right now and we're excited about the partnership with Pearson to help students cross the bridge from high school to college.
Turning now to the Business Technology and Management segment.
One of the factors impacting demand at DeVry University as well as higher education across the U.S.
continues to be prospective students' lack of confidence in the economy and hesitancy to make the commitment to go to college.
As a result many institutions across the U.S.
are experiencing declining enrollments and revenue.
An analysis of fall enrollments by the Washington Post found that in Maryland Virginia and the District of the 80 institutions there 50 of them have fewer students than they did a year ago.
So as students today may be hesitating to enroll in college we believe there may be pent-up demand building to be released as the economy improves.
To improve our performance and to control what we can control we continue to execute a turnaround plan at DeVry University.
Let me update you on our progress.
Our plan to increase enrollments include the strategic use of scholarships.
In January we announced our second call to action campaign of fiscal '14 providing a new Career Catalyst Scholarship of up to $20 000 for eligible students who are enrolling for the March session.
This scholarship achieves 2 objectives: attracting new students and improving student persistence.
We experienced good results from our first campaign in September.
We believe this program likewise will help us attract students.
And the scholarship provide students $5 000 $7 000 and then $8 000 as they earn a 4-year bachelor's degree in 3 years to encourage persistence.
Our early read is that for students who receive the scholarship in September their persistence was higher.
You may be wondering why we aren't implementing the Career Catalyst campaign for every session.
Well our program for this fiscal year was to run one call-to-action event for September and one in March and then to assess the impact.
And so far we're pleased with the results.
We'll continue to analyze what happens in March and we'll keep you posted.
Our plan also includes sharpening DeVry University's value proposition which is based of course on educational quality and is focused on career outcomes and exceptional student support.
Core to this is providing our students with strong programs in high-growth fields.
As we enter 2014 part of our strategy is an enhanced programmatic focus.
This includes regularly assessing and adjusting our programs to better meet the needs of our students and employers.
This may mean expanding our program offerings in some areas and decreasing programs in others.
Even though our new student growth is negative we're focused on our plan to turn that around.
And here are some of the factors that give us confidence in our plan: the rate of decline is narrowing and we expect that to continue in the March class.
Student satisfaction as measured by Net Promoter Score is up.
We think this points to positive retention as well.
Bad debt remains low and our career statistics are actually going up even in this tough job market.
So the fundamental value that DeVry University students are receiving is solid and improving.
Lastly before I turn it over to Tim I want to just mention that DeVry Education Group is gearing up for the Winter Olympics in Sochi Russia in our role as the official -- as an official education partner of team USA.
We're educating over 120 Olympic student athletes and 15 of them have qualified and are competing in these winter games.
Maybe you've seen some of the events coverage in the New York Times or on the Today show.
These students are amazing and they inspire us.
We hope their stories inspire others who struggle with balancing school and work priorities.
Hope that it inspires them to see that you can indeed accomplish both.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Tim.
Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before we get to the financial results I'd like to take a few moments and discuss recent enrollment numbers which plays such a key role at our institutions.
We are parts of the organization like Chamberlain DeVry Medical International DeVry Brasil and Becker that are growing.
Total enrollments were up at these institutions and are driving solid revenue growth.
We have 2 institutions DeVry University and Carrington that are executing turnaround plans.
You'll also hear us refer to these 2 schools as institutions in transition.
Here's a quick update on each.
At Carrington this year is all about focus and execution.
New and total student enrollments are stabilizing but were down modestly this quarter because we made the decision to narrow our program focus.
If you exclude the programs and teach-out new student enrollments grew 8.7%.
It's also important to note that even though Carrington is still in transition we're doing a good job of executing the plan.
So good in fact that the revenues grew this quarter.
However at our largest institution DeVry University we're continuing to struggle in this difficult environment.
November enrollments at DeVry University were down sequentially and versus prior year.
While we experience a more modest decline in the January session new student enrollments were still below prior-year levels.
For the upcoming March session we're expecting to see a sequential improvement in new student enrollments.
This is based on the early response to the Career Catalyst call to action which is encouraging.
However the current environment continues to be challenging and total enrollments will be lower than last year.
We've been working hard to align our costs with these enrollment levels but there's more to be done.
We think about our cost-saving strategies around 3 overlapping layers.
The first layer covers near-term items focusing on our staffing models and variable cost elements.
As you'll recall we've been successful at reducing costs through staffing adjustments and by lowering variable costs in the near term.
That's what's drove a lot of the initial savings as we adjusted our cost model to enrollment volumes.
The middle area comprises items to take a little longer to work through things like our real estate footprint.
Year-to-date at Carrington we've consolidated our Antioch and Emeryville locations; and we're currently in Teach-out at our Portland campus.
At DeVry University we've announced the teach-out at our Louisville campus and sold our Decatur Georgia campus.
And as Daniel mentioned earlier we completed the relocation of DeVry Medical International's MERP program to Miramar from Freeport.
We'll continue to look for opportunities to optimize our real estate footprint.
The third layer which takes longer to realize savings focuses on process redesign and restructuring.
These are longer-term initiatives which not only reduce costs but it can prove service quality and shift cost to a more variable model.
Recent examples include centralizing areas within human resources and accounting to leverage scale efficiencies.
Our work continues to centralize key parts of student finance and we have been working to streamline other operations at DeVry University.
Increased programmatic focus there will allow us to further reduce program complexity like what we're doing at Carrington.
Year-to-date we've generated more than $35 million in cost savings at our institutions in transition.
As a result of our continued focus on costs and lower-than-expected enrollments at DeVry University we've increased the total cost savings target for our institutions in transition to $75 million and that's up from $60 million initially planned in FY '14.
The way I think about it is that total cost and expenses for the institutions in transition were about $1.17 billion in FY '13.
With this new higher goal we now expect those costs to be at or below $1.1 billion in fiscal 2014.
I'll now turn to our financial results.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2014 revenues from continuing operations were $491 million.
Year-to-date revenues totaled $942 million.
Revenues at our growing institutions increased 16% to $214 million.
The increase was offset by a 12% decrease to $277 million in revenues at our institutions in transition.
We continue to reduce cost at our institutions in transition during the quarter.
Total cost excluding special items at these institutions were $270 million down 6% versus last year; and year-to-date total costs were down 6.7%.
Total second quarter costs excluding special items at our growing institutions were $156 million an increase of 17.7%.
These costs reflect new programs and campuses and recent acquisitions in Brazil.
We had 2 special items this quarter: first we recorded a $4.7 million pretax charge for restructuring activities.
This charge relates to real estate consolidations with Carrington DeVry University and DeVry Medical International and workforce reductions occurring during the quarter.
Second we recorded a loss from discontinued operations related to Advanced Academics.
Excluding the special charges total operating costs from continuing operations for the quarter were $428 million a slight increase compared to last year.
For the 6 months total costs totaled $859 million again up slightly from last year.
Investments in our growth institutions are running slightly higher than cost reductions achieved at our institutions in transition.
We reported a net income of $48 million for the quarter and $41 million for the 6-month period.
This result in earnings per share of $0.74 for the quarter and $0.63 year-to-date.
Net income from continuing operations and before special items was $52 million for the quarter.
Earnings per share from continuing operations and again excluding special items was $0.80 this quarter.
Our effective income tax from continuing operations was 14.7% for the quarter and 15.1% year-to-date.
As a reminder we expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for fiscal 2014 will be in the 15% to 17% range.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue of $190 million was up 13.5% in the second quarter.
Segment revenue is up more than 12% over the prior year in the first half.
Excluding special items income from the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter was $40 million representing an increase of 42.6% from the prior year.
During the first 6 months segment income grew 24.5% excluding special items.
This is largely driven by maturing campuses at Chamberlain and the continuing narrowing of operating losses at Carrington.
In this transition year we expect Carrington revenues will grow in the low single-digit percentage range and we expect expenses to be down year-over-year in the mid-single-digit percentage range.
And if all goes as planned Carrington should return to positive operating income in the fourth quarter this fiscal year.
Turning now to the International and Professional Education segment.
Revenue of $61 million increased 16.6%.
In the first half segment revenue increased more than 17%.
At Becker revenue grew 5%; and at DeVry Brasil revenue was up nearly 29% in the quarter.
The increase at DeVry Brasil was primarily driven by the recent acquisition of Facid.
We continue to look for acquisition opportunities in Brazil while we invest in new programs and locations to grow organically.
The segment's income of more than $16 million increased nearly 8% as compared with the prior year reflecting the near-term lower margins for recently acquired institutions and the impact of organic expansions in Brazil.
Finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenues were down 14% during the quarter and 16% year-to-date.
This is a result of lower enrollments and lower undergraduate revenue per student which was down about 1% in the second quarter.
Lower revenue per student reflects the higher use of scholarships over the last several sessions.
As expected the Business and Technology and Management segment returned to profitability this quarter.
Excluding special items the segment generated an operating income of $9.9 million compared to $39 million operating income last year.
Now looking at the third quarter we expect all our institutions to grow revenue except DeVry University.
Given lower enrollment levels we now expect operating income margin in the Business Technology and Management segment will be in the low single digits for the full year.
We expect operating costs to be up sequentially in the third quarter based on investments in our growth institutions to take advantage of their strong market position and fuel future growth.
We also anticipate higher seasonal spending to support 2 session starts at DeVry University Keller and Chamberlain in the third quarter versus just one in the second quarter.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Well thanks Tim.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our cash flow from operations for the first 6 months of fiscal year 2014 was $113 million.
Our total cash balance increased to $262 million at December 31 2013 as compared to $217 million last year.
Now our bad debt rate continues to be one of the lowest among private sector colleges and universities.
Year-to-date bad debt as a percentage of revenue was 2.1% reflecting the value proposition of our programs and our team's focus on student financial aid and the collections process.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $118 million down slightly from the prior year.
We expect capital spending for the fiscal year to be in the $90 million to $100 million range which is lower than our original expectations as we continue to identify opportunities to reduce our capital spend.
Capital spending for the first 6 months was $33 million with 75% of that being deployed to our Medical and Healthcare and International institutions to drive future growth.
Overall our solid financial position and cash flow generation at the end of the first half of this fiscal year gives us the flexibility to reinvest in quality and growth in the second half and beyond.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
Several weeks ago the White House convened a summit on access to education among low-income students.
We fully support the President and the First Lady on their commitment to expand college opportunity for low-income students.
The only way the U.S.
can meet the President's 2020 college attainment goal is by giving students the tools access and opportunity to pursue higher education.
We know these students can succeed in college and the workplace.
We see it everyday in our student and alumni.
We'll continue to work with the administration to make sure that the regulatory framework is consistent with providing access to quality programs.
Now while there's this tremendous need to educate more people a recent report issued by the Education Policy Center at the University of Alabama found that budget constraints have led to enrollment caps at various public institutions in 19 states and there continues to be a need for education and at the same time the public sector faces constraints.
All this reinforces the long-term thesis on career-oriented private-sector education.
In stepping back and thinking about the actions we're taking to improve DeVry Group's performance it's really been transformational.
Over the last couple of years we've narrowed our focus and streamlined the organization including divesting Advanced Academics as well as Stalla CFA Review; exiting DeVry University Canada; consolidating over a dozen campuses and administrative locations; and reducing our cost structure by $175 million over fiscal '13 and '14.
At the same time we've invested in growth opportunities including acquiring AUC ATC Falcon Physician Reviews Facid Favip and FBV.
Also launching our outsourced services business integrated education solutions; and at Chamberlain developing new programs such as the family nurse practitioner and the doctor of nursing practice; and also opening 5 campuses in the last 2 years.
So I'm proud of the sense of urgency of our team and believe the achievements such as these set a positive tone of execution as we pursue our strategic plan in the second half of the year.
We'll continue to focus on executing the turnaround plans at our institutions in transition while investing in the expansion of our health care professional and international institutions.
Our formula of quality plus diversification will distinguish DeVry Group and will drive our future growth.
Lastly just before we turn the call over to your questions I'd like to congratulate Dr.
Connie Curran on her appointment as Chair of our Board of Directors.
Connie has made significant contributions to the board since joining in 2003.
I look forward to working with her in her new role as do the other members of the DeVry Group team.
So now with that we're eager to hear your thoughts and questions.
Joan? Great Daniel.
Mike if you please give our participants instructions for asking a question.
[Operator Instructions] The first question we have comes from Trace Urdan of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a couple of questions if I could.
The first was on the BTM margins did those come in where you hope they would be? Can you sort of characterize your feelings about where that -- where the operating margins are there? I know that your ambition is to improve them from here but I'm wondering if you hit your targets for the quarter as far as those were concerned.
Trace it's Tim.
We -- yes the first half was at or above where we expected to be both in terms of revenue and cost.
We were disappointed with the last 2 sittings the November and the January so it put some pressure on our second half and that's why you see us adjusting our outlook and also upping our cost-reduction targets.
And we're not done.
We're continuing work there.
But as you know the fixed-cost model makes it hard to keep up with those adjustments so it changes in enrollments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I'm wondering Tim if you can also help us think about the application of the scholarship going forward in revenue-per-student terms.
Yes so we saw some -- about a 1% reduction in revenue per student in this current quarter and we think 1% to 2% is about what you should be thinking about as we look out for the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question for you Daniel.
I know I'd asked this question before so I apologize but can you help us think about how to -- how we should be thinking about Ross and the growth opportunity for Ross overall? Are we at a place in the market now where we're kind of stable and we really shouldn't be thinking about it as a growth business? Or is that not right? We think when you look at all the market factors including the need for physicians the Affordable Care Act particularly with the primary care physicians and our 2 medical schools serving the U.S.
do tend to graduate a disproportionately high share of primary care physicians while also graduating in the specialties as well the rate of physicians retiring.
There's a lot of factors and if you net it all out our analysis leads us to believe that the long-term sustainable enrollment growth rate is in the low-single digits with then revenues and earnings higher than that.
Next we have Sara Gubins of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The Medical and Healthcare margins excluding charges were up nicely in the quarter on a year-over-year basis.
Could you give us some color on that? And do you think that that would continue? When I look at costs in that segment for the quarter they were flat sequentially even though revenue was up by $15 million so I'm wondering if we're sort of at a steady run rate on cost or if that should begin to ramp up again.
Sure Sara.
This is Pat.
Good question.
As Tim noted in his remarks the Medical and Healthcare margin was up driven in part by the maturing of our Chamberlain campuses.
So we're getting the benefit of those campuses that we've opened in the past say 3 to 4 years as those continue to grow.
We're also getting very good growth within our Chicago market here as well as a continued growth in our postsecondary programs which are online and add nicely to the margin mix.
As we look into the second half of the year and as we move the second quarter to the third quarter sequentially we'll have 2 session starts at Chamberlain so we'll have some higher costs there and then we'll start to see some cost increases at Chamberlain as we ramp up and anticipating opening our new campus locations in FY '15.
Right.
And the other thing I would add is of course as we make progress on the Carrington turnaround plan they're reducing their operating loss and that's a big contributor to that op as well.
Research Division</strong> So do you think that margins for Medical and Healthcare could be up for the year in fiscal '14? Slightly up but...
You can't see us shaking our head no unfortunately.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I just want to make sure I understood.
So slightly up is that fair? No.
Research Division</strong> No not slightly up.
Okay down.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
And then around new student starts for undergrad in the next term you mentioned that they should be up sequentially.
Do you have any confidence that they might actually be up year-over-year? Or are you just expecting the declines to narrow? Yes it's too soon to tell.
When we did the Career Catalyst in September you'll recall that we were up just barely slightly positive.
So that would certainly be a delightful outcome it's just too soon to tell at this point.
We do believe that it will improve over our January which was down about 8%.
So that's our current outlook and we'll keep our fingers crossed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just last question how are you thinking about the potential for more aggressive campus shutdowns in the DeVry University segment given current trends? We're thinking -- we take a look at each of the campus locations and they contribute.
The vast majority of them are positive contributors.
So it really makes sense to continue.
But we continue to take a look at that and so that's -- to your question that's how we evaluate it campus by campus.
Next we have Suzi Stein of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if I missed this but did you say what the organic growth was in Brazil? And also how big were the programs that had operating constraints? Should we expect a big move in this next quarter? Suzi it's Pat.
The revenue growth for the second quarter for DeVry Brasil was 29% and our acquisition of Facid which would be the only acquisition that would be anniversarying or haven't anniversaried yet added about a percentage point of revenue growth.
For the company.
For the company yes.
For overall DeVry Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how big were those programs that had constraints that were lifted? The AREA1 programs -- well I think it'd be hard to see it in the enterprise level here but...
Yes but one thought on that we did have a negative new student growth there as a result of those programs and we haven't and won't announce the results for a couple of months.
But based on where we are we think it will be positive again.
So we've got 2 out of 3 back online and so we're expecting to get back into positive growth there.
Research Division</strong> And then I didn't catch the details of what you're doing with Pearson.
Can you just elaborate on that? Sure.
What we're doing is we've gotten together and so the operations of Advanced Academics now are with Pearson's Connections Education.
And they I think are proving to be very good home for our colleagues and for the students in these schools that are being served.
So that's the most important near-term priority.
And then we've also reached a strategic alliance whereby DeVry Group's postsecondary institutions are the sort of preferred provider of postsecondary education for the graduates of the Connections students as they graduated out of high school as well as we have opportunities for early college program for their Connections high school students.
And increasingly they see opportunities for blended learning where they need to teach not 100% online but some on site and with our coast-to-coast network of campus facilities then opportunity for better utilization of our campuses and great opportunity for solving their need for on-site or blended learning.
So those are the 3 main areas of the alliance.
We also -- we both have opportunities to help out with educating Olympic athletes at both the postsecondary but also there's -- especially some of the snowboarders and skiers and some of the other athletes who participate at the high school level they need to go to high school online and we've got a solution for that so working together with the -- with team USA is another opportunity.
So a number of aspects of that strategic alliance with Pearson Connections Education.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just sneak in one more.
Can you maybe comment on the FTC issue that was announced? Yes.
Basically I can tell you that we only just recently received the request within the last couple of days.
So our intent here was to inform everybody and be as transparent as we can.
And beyond that we certainly intend to comply with their request for information.
Like I said their observation is I think in life not just in education industry but in other industries seems to become -- becoming an increasingly common occurrence to get requests for information.
So we'll certainly comply with that.
Next we have a Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I see your ad spend was up 10% in the December quarter and you talked about seasonally higher spend because of more starts.
Would that 10% number be a good thought for advertising the back half of the year? Or do you think that accelerates? So we think that the fourth quarter will be somewhat -- I'm sorry that the third quarter spend will be up slightly or in line with what we saw in the second quarter.
In part -- well driven in part to support the Career Catalyst program within DeVry University.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up on that FTC question we did a quick Google search.
We haven't seen the FTC involved in anything but maybe back in 1997 they were -- they looked into a school.
But have you -- is - have you seen FTC involvement in anything besides this one? This is the one that I'm aware of.
This is the one that we're dealing with.
The next question we have comes from Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I want to touch on the March DeVry University start one more time.
And given that you're bringing the scholarship back and it's an easier year-ago comps sort of all else equal I would think you have a good chance for you to go positive there.
So the fact that you're being cautious can you just talk a little bit about the whole enrollment pipeline and maybe where you're seeing continued deterioration year-over-year whether it's in terms of response rates to ads or the show rate or where exactly do you think the weakness is? A little bit in the high school.
We did -- as part of the plan here we are reallocating resources and that's part of their whole turnaround plan.
And so we did reallocate resources in the high school program in some markets that had sort of a lower effectiveness there.
So that's an area that you still -- you're going to have a year-over-year anniversary issue.
So that's an example.
I would say overall it's just incredibly choppy out there.
I think that as you look sort of more medium term and certainly long term the future we think brightens.
We also note that the 2-year or career college in the 2-year and shorter areas seems to be doing a little bit better.
And that's true in our case as you see the better results at Carrington College.
That seems to be the case with some of the others who are out there reporting data on the career college segment enrollment.
And historically the career college segment has led to 4-year segment.
So let's hope that history repeats itself in that regard.
Research Division</strong> And that actually leads right into what I was going to ask you next which is given that and given what it appears gainful employment will look like and being sort of differentially biased against 4-year programs does that lead you to want to change your programmatic mix and maybe emphasize 2-year programs or shorter programs going forward? I'm not -- at this point I would not say that.
Our strategy has -- of diversification served us really well.
It's one of the reasons that we like Carrington so much and what they do so well in that area as well as the 2-year programs that we do have at DeVry University.
So we think that the overall mix within the group is -- looks pretty good.
And as we go forward changes like that and the diversified position that we have we think is a strength that allows us to then maybe take advantage if you will of situations like that as they might develop.
But we'll have to see how that develops.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last quick one for Tim.
I think you said you expect total operating expenses to be up sequentially in Q3.
We have been modeling up like $1 million.
Can you just give us a sense of how -- what the magnitude of that increase might be? Sure.
While our institutions in transition Corey will be down year-on-year but they will up sequentially.
And if you look across we think -- well as Pat mentioned there was a couple of 2 starts versus one and that affects both DeVry University and Chamberlain and that's order of magnitude maybe $4 million to $5 million.
But we're also and I think maybe from your models is you're not picking up the spend where we're really investing pretty briskly in our growth institutions where we have good positions and good prospects.
We think this is the right time to do that.
So that's where I'd look in your models in terms of -- but it will be up significantly more than $1 million.
Maybe you got to put 0 on that Corey.
Tim Connor of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Trying to understand why you think Medical and Healthcare margins are going to be down this year given what seemed like really strong segment quarter trends and then the potential for some consolidation savings at Carrington maybe later in the year.
Timo it's Pat.
In terms of the -- when we said down we said down slightly sequentially.
So if you're looking at the 21.1% that the segment generated in the second quarter given what Tim had said about the 2 session starts and some continued investment there partially offset by the narrowing of the Carrington loss.
Relative to that it'll be down but still pretty impressive in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So for the full year though the expectation is that if current trends continue Medical and Healthcare margin should be up year-over-year.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And same thing on Business Technology and Management margins.
It sounds like you're increasing your cost-cut target and seeing some better turns in new enrollment and sounds like persistence is getting better as well you're seeing sometimes there.
Those all seem like good things for margins.
I just wanted to understand the view and maybe the change in what you're thinking about there.
Yes.
So in the BTM we're still struggling with keeping costs tracked into the revenue so we're seeing our revenues decline at about twice the rate that we're getting cost out.
We're trying to be aggressive with that and stay on top of it.
Certainly stronger enrollments are very helpful in that regard.
So to the extent that we have a solid Career Catalyst in March it'll help.
But we're looking at segment margins for that segment down from 9% a year ago to low-single digits.
And that's really a function of just the negative leverage that we're experiencing here.
But as we mentioned we're working on these longer-term initiatives.
Our -- the programmatic focus we think holds some promise.
So we got to continue to be vigilant but that's kind of our outlook based on the enrollments that we have particularly the November and January classes which roll through the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then final one.
What would a more sustained use of scholarships in BTM do for average revenue per student in the long term? And then persistence what kinds of opportunities are there to increase persistence that might balance out the top line impact? And just how do you view those 2 things together? We'll take it in reverse order and I'll try on the -- to answer your question.
On the persistence impact our early results are encouraging in that the students who received the Career Catalyst Scholarship at DeVry University both at the undergraduate and the graduate level at Keller Graduate School of Management do appear to have higher rates of persistence than those who didn't receive the scholarship.
And we're in the process of analyzing that lift.
And we've got an analytics team big data analytics all of that slicing and dicing it grad undergrad on-site online by program.
And every cut shows an improvement in persistence.
So it's quite encouraging.
And in some cases more of a lift.
For example online which is again an early read but intriguing to us.
So that's sort of the persistence side of it in terms of -- do you guys want to add anything? Sure yes.
So Timo a couple of things to think about.
One is in our last call I believe we talked about our total DeVry Group scholarship program would be in the low $70 million range.
We now think that's going to be in the high $70 million range.
And so what we're trying to balance here is managing through some of the choppy environments.
We've targeted these scholarships to do 2 things.
We want to drive new student enrollments but also at the same time drive persistence.
So we've been working with adjusting the mix moving scholarship money around adding scholarship money.
And as we said early the Career Catalyst back in September did both those things and got us to a flat enrollment year-on-year.
And so we'll see how it plays out here.
But we think a combination of adjusting scholarship money and adding to the pot or the pool is the right thing to do given the current environment.
And so we talked about some pressure on our revenue per student at DeVry University undergrad for the second half.
Next we have Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So I was hoping you might be able to provide us with some granularity in terms of the programmatic enrollment trends at DeVry University.
I asked this in the context of trying to better understand if maybe certain components of the business actually have turned positive already and whether that we could read into that that there are competitive issues that might represent more secular challenges in other parts.
Sure.
There weren't major differences in program area to report.
I would say technology was a little bit better than business in general.
Just to really get granular I'll give you an example.
Network communications was a stronger program.
That makes sense.
I know here in the Chicago area just talking to employers personally I can report they're reporting virtually no unemployment in technology field.
They're really struggling to find programmers and network people and so forth.
And boy those -- that strength at the back end if you will historically has found its way to the front end.
It -- that cycle is just taking a little bit longer in this economic cycle than we've ever seen before.
And we think it's because of the higher -- the longer duration of the high unemployment that we experienced and sort of general malaise that's out there there's just sort of a -- it's taking a little bit longer for the prospective students to see that connection.
And where they do see that connection it does a little bit better I think.
And nursing would be a good example.
The connection is clearer and we do a little bit better there.
So that's our job and that's a big part of the turnaround plan and increased programmatic focus of doing that program by program and making sure that each one the value proposition of that program the components of the curriculum the way it's packaged the way we go to market the way we describe it the way we partner with employers by each program is optimized is going to be part of the DeVry University strategy that you'll hear us talk about a little bit more as we move forward.
So that's a little bit of what we're seeing Peter.
Research Division</strong> And the scholarship programs are not as specific to program areas correct? Correct.
Yes that applies across all the programs undergrad and grad at DeVry University.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And can you remind me the mix between -- for DU between tech and business or however you break it up? Let's see.
We're roughly -- not far off half and half business and technology at the undergraduate level for DeVry University.
It's surprising to a lot of people because they think of us as in the old days but we've grown the business accounting marketing programs like that to the point where DeVry University is about half business program.
It's quite interesting.
Research Division</strong> And last thing.
Do you -- in terms of I guess metrics investors who care about in terms of conversion rates or inquiry rates you -- based on what you said earlier I guess you're not seeing significant differences between those 2 programmatic areas? Yes I would say overall that within that pipeline of metrics the conversion's up.
We're happier with the conversion.
We just need -- we would like to see more raw interest at the top of that funnel.
Research Division</strong> Across both.
I was asking specifically about one -- tech versus business.
I think the inquiries are up a little bit more in the technology area but the conversion's a little bit better on the business side.
So when you get both to do this -- well if we could take the best parts of both then -- and that's what we plan to do that's when you'll start to see better results.
Jeff Volshteyn of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify on the scholarships.
Do they apply to full-time students and part-time students? And what is the tuition for full-time and part-time students net of the scholarships on average? I'm not sure -- I don't know if I have the exact detail and -- yes John can follow up.
It's on our website of course.
But it is -- the first part of your question yes it's for full-time students.
And they do have to apply for the scholarship and tests at the standard level and so forth.
There are some other stipulations that apply.
And again all the details obviously are disclosed in our website for everybody to see.
Research Division</strong> And approximately what percentage of the DeVry University students are full time? I don't have a number for you at the top of my head.
Let's...
Again I can follow up.
Yes we can certainly follow up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one more maintenance question.
Bad debt expense in the quarter what was it? Year-to-date 2.1%.
The next question we have comes from Jerry Herman of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping maybe to start with recycling an old question and that in particular is your thoughts on positioning on the new dialogue around gainful employment; and in particular maybe how you think about that for Carrington and DeVry.
We as you know are waiting to see what the final rules look like and we can't comment on the impact that they might or might not have an us until they're final.
What I can just say generally is we think that regulations in higher education are a good thing as long as they're the right regulations.
And those would be basically one set of rules for all colleges and universities.
And those rules would be based on 2 -- that would rest on 2 basic pillars: one is hold us accountable for the outcomes and the other is hold us accountable for best practices and professional practices.
So the outcomes would be are the students learning graduating? Are they repaying their loans? Are they employed in their fields? Are good they going to grad school or -- and passing their license? And all those kinds of outcomes metrics.
And then on the professional practices I think all colleges should be held accountable for professional recruiting students whether those are athletic students on scholarship or those are any kind of student that there's professional recruiting practices marketing full disclosure robust disclosure to students those kinds of things.
And if those rules are applied to all colleges and universities I think we'd have a very strong accountability framework in higher education that we and I'm sure many others would sign up to.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Daniel with regard to Camp Carrington and the rationalization of programs there was that at all related to gainful employment? And also sort of separate but related as I recall once upon a time that business generated whatever $20 million in operating income and at the trough it maybe lost $30 million.
Can you guys kind of frame where are on that continuum if you will in 2014? Sure.
And I would say that the programmatic rationalization was not driven by gainful employment.
Certainly we're mindful of those kinds of consideration.
As we always have been.
We have always thought about our programs at DeVry University or Carrington or the other institutions for that matter in the United States and in Brazil.
What is the outcome that the students are getting? And what is their return on educational investment? We've always had that definition of gainful employment.
But the main driver of the programmatic strategy at Carrington has been to tighten the focus and do one thing really really well which is the starting point for careers in health care.
So the vast majority of the programs are focused on health care.
There are still a few other programs legacy programs not in health care but the vast majority now are there.
So that was really the driver.
And do you want to provide a little color Pat on the journey? Sure.
The journey Jerry -- so for Carrington last fiscal year FY 2013 on a fully loaded basis that institution lost about $25 million of operating income.
For FY '14 from a full year perspective we expect to cut that in half.
But as we noted in our comments on the call as we exit this fiscal year so the fourth quarter we would expect that institution to return to profitability.
The next question we have comes from Jeff Silber of BMO Capital Markets.
I know it's late.
I'll just ask a quick one.
Can you just go over in terms of the calendar for the third quarter and fourth quarter are there any major difference in starts when we look at it on a year-over-year basis across your schools? Let's see.
For the third quarter DeVry University and Chamberlain College of Nursing we will have 2 starts for our on-site pre-bachelor's program at Chamberlain and 2 starts for both DVU obviously January and March.
And in the fourth quarter there'll just be one start in May.
So from a year-over-year or -- year-over-year they'll be the same but sequentially they will be different.
Great.
I was just wondering if March maybe had dovetailed into the fourth quarter but I guess it doesn't? No.
Next question is Jeff Meuler of Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the Medical and Healthcare business there was kind of a long-term multiyear trend of margin contraction.
I'm sure there was a lot of going on there with Carrington losses that you guys covered but also probably mix shift and investments in Chamberlain.
In total it seems like we've kind of hit the inflection point over the last 1.5 years.
I was wondering if you guys could talk about the longer-term multiyear margin outlook for that segment.
So yes Jeff we certainly think that we've hit the inflection point in FY '14.
We'd expect the operating margins for that segment to increase over the prior year.
Going forward we will have the benefit of Chamberlain campuses as they continue into maturity.
But we also there will be opening -- continue to open Chamberlain campuses and we may increase that rate of growth in the outer years which could dampen that a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with Chamberlain can you just talk about the strategic importance of the ground campus? And I ask that from the standpoint that the online growth on the business has been terrific and requires a fairly low capital outlay high returns on capital.
But just wondering how tied together the online-only growth is to the growing campuses.
Yes it's really insightful question really Jeff because we believe that they're tied together and it's a real advantage.
For the nursing school in the community among nurses who are looking to at the post-licensure side add a credential whether that's an RN to BSN; so again they're an RN but they want to get to BSN or move on to the master's or doctoral level.
Many of those nurses are interested in going to a nursing school that is -- and I'll quote unquote "a real school." And I'll say that because I've actually heard people say that in focus groups.
And what do they mean by "real school"? Well you have a pre-licensure program you -- you're actually contributing to the professional with that -- profession at that level as well.
So we think it helps us.
We also think that our research does show that we get more online student enrollments in markets where we have an on-site campus.
It helps to build awareness and brand and reputation.
So those are a couple of reasons and there are others that we believe having both is a strategic advantage in that as we build out the network here over the next few years for example here in Chicago now having 3 campus locations and strong clinical network and so forth that it really forms a competitive advantage for us relative to some new entrant trying to come in.
So thank you for that question.
I could talk about Chamberlain all day.
Well great.
Daniel I'd like to ask you to make your closing comments.
Do we have any other questions in the queue? Nope.
You sure? Okay.
Want to make sure we got everybody.
Great.
And my closing comment is an important one because it's a big thank you.
Thank you to everyone for your questions and for your continued support of DeVry Education Group.
Our next quarterly results call is scheduled for April 24.
We'll be announcing our fiscal 2014 third quarter results.
Thanks again everyone.
Have a great evening.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time today.
We thank you all for attending today's conference call.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the third quarter 2014 DeVry Education Group results conference call and webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Joan Walter Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry Education Groups leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'd also like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements with respect to the future performance and financial condition of DeVry Education Group that involves risk and uncertainties.
Various factors could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied.
These factors are discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Quarterly Report and Form 10-K for fiscal year 2013 filed with the SEC and its available on our website at <a href="http://www.devryeducationgroup.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.devryeducationgroup.com</u></a>.
DeVry Group disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Additionally during the call we may refer to non-GAAP financial measures which are intended to supplement but not substitute for our most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our Press Release which contains the financial and other quantitative information to be discussed today as well as the reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures in also available on our website.
Telephone and webcast replays of todays call are available until May 16.
To access the replay please refer to todays release for information.
And with that Ill now turn the call over to Daniel.
Thanks Joan.
Thank you all very much for joining us today.
During this quarter continued strong enrollment in our growing institutions mitigated the challenging environment for DeVry University.
Similar factors contributing to our results this quarter including the following: We delivered solid growth at Chamberlain DeVry Medical International DeVry Brasil and Becker.
We made progress in DeVry Universitys turnaround plan as enrollments improved sequentially during the March session and we continued to reduce costs on enhancing the quality of our programs.
As you know our long-term strategy is to achieve superior academic outcomes that always comes first and strong student outcomes drive our financial results as well.
Second to grow and diversify our offerings and then to build the infrastructure and make targeted investments to drive long-term growth.
This strategy of quality diversification and long-term thinking has positioned us well even given the challenging environment in U.S Business and Technology Education.
But you know given the times and the sense of urgency that we have as an organization were just incredibly focused on two priorities right now; turnaround and transform DeVry University and continue our growth through diversification.
Our four-point plan to turnaround and transform DeVry University includes stabilizing enrollments and positioning the University for long-term growth; reducing our cost structure while maintaining and enhancing our service to students; regaining DeVry Universitys technology edge and finally developing and supporting the team to execute the turnaround plan.
So point one our enrollment strategy starts with enhancing our programmatic focus.
This means ensuring that our programs are designed to best meet the needs of our students and employers and better communicate their value proposition to the market.
Weve done a good job of managing and messaging at the University level and will improve our competitiveness by doing so at the programmatic level and its starting to payoff.
For example we are following this approach in our accounting program and accounting has been doing relatively well for us lately growing about 8% over the last 12 months.
Our enrollment strategies continue with optimizing our pricing with the goals of increasing new students and encouraging persistence.
Even since we last spoke the team has become more aggrieve in this area.
So beginning in the July session we are restructuring several elements of tuition pricing.
We are changing the number of credit hours a student must take per session to receive the full time discount from seven hours to eight.
Reallocating some of that to increase funding for other scholarship programs and re-implementing a new DeVry Universitys fixed tuition promise.
We promised our students that their tuition ratio will never increase as long they are a student.
We are also finding ways to be more effective in our marketing and recruiting efforts.
The programmatic focus that I mentioned will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our messaging.
Our marketing strategy is shifting towards more digital and social channels and optimizing our website in a way from less effective inquiry vendors and were starting to see some results of this shift already.
For the March session inequity conversion improved as we saw fewer but better quality inquiries and improved recruiting efficiency.
The second point in the turnaround and transformation plan is reducing our cost structure while maintaining and enhancing our service to students.
We are accelerating our efforts here and we are now projecting that well exceed our original goal.
Tim will provide more color on these reductions in a few minutes.
And third we are rebuilding DeVry Universitys technology edge.
For more than 80 years DeVry University has been known for technology and we believe we have a real opportunity to build on that legacy.
This means increasing the emphasis on technology in our programs.
So whether its a technology program itself or accounting or marketing or other programs students gain a technology edge that will help them in todays technology based careers.
We will also further embed technology in our campuses and our processes.
Weve really ramped up mobile access for students for example.
And the last point in the plan in developing and supporting the team to executive this strategy.
Last fall when Dave Pauldine announced his upcoming retirement DeVry Universitys Board of Trustees launched a thorough internal and external search and we recently announced that Rob Paul has been appointed the next President of the University.
As many of you know Rob was previously DeVry Universitys Head of Operations and is currently the President of Carrington and a key architect of its turnaround plan.
Carrington has made tremendous strides and expects to end the year producing positive operating income at the instructional level.
Theres a lot of similarities between what Robs been working on and what DeVry University needs right now and we are looking forwarded to Robs leadership.
We are also putting in place a new organization structure to support the programmatic focus and to speed up decision-making.
Weve created four programmatic verticals namely Engineering and Information Sciences Undergraduate Business Keller Graduate School of Management and finally Health Sciences Liberal &amp; Media Arts.
Each vertical will have a focused team who will have responsibility for enrollment program quality and successful student outcomes.
I have confidence in this plan and I have confidence in this team.
This is a management team that has faced challenging conditions and successfully led turnarounds before.
For example back in fiscal 2005 and more recently at Carrington as well.
Im seeing an increased sense of urgency from the team as we focus on stabilizing enrollment and significantly reducing our cost structure.
Now the second imperative is to continue our growth and diversification and to do so well continue to invest in our growing institutions particularly in healthcare professional and international education.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we delivered strong enrollment growth this quarter particularly in our new Masters and Doctoral programs.
During the quarter Chamberlain completed a partnership with Walgreens and this provided Chamberlain's family nurse practitioner students the opportunity to gain clinical experience at the clinics and sites of select Walgreens locations across the country.
We are excited to add Walgreens to our impressive list of healthcare partners.
We are also continuing to expand our Chamberlain programs and locations.
We are happy to report that we received approves on our second locations in Huston which will open in fiscal 2015.
We previously targeted two to three new campus openings for fiscal 2015 and the good news is that there could be as many as four pending approvals.
Chamberlain also continues to exemplify our commitment to academic quality and we are proud to have partnered with the National League for Nursing on the NLN Chamberlain Center for the Advancement of the Science of Nursing Education.
Recently Chamberlain profession Dr.
Nancy Scroggs was appointed to serve as the scholar and resident for the center and shell enhance NLNs facility development programs promote research initiatives and nursing education.
Moving on to DeVry Medical International.
Im pleased to report that our medical school graduates from American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine and Ross University School of Medicine earned more than a 1000 residency positions at hospitals in the United States and Canada.
These residents of course will now continue their training in such prestigious teaching hospitals as Georgetown University Hospital in Washington D.C.
St.
Joseph Mercy Hospital in Michigan and Rush-Copley Memorial Hospital in Illinois among many others.
Many of our Graduates plan to become Primary Care Physicians where societys need is greatest.
Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine we continue to make investments to support academic quality.
Dr.
Arve Lee Willingham joined us as the first director of our One Health Center for Zoonoses and Tropical Veterinary Medicine.
This center focuses on diseases affecting livestock production and public health using the One Health approach.
What that means is One Health involves obtaining optimal health for people animals and our environment.
Were really proud of the cutting edge research opportunities that we are able to provide to our veterinary students.
At Carrington as I mentioned we are making good progress including bringing the two collages together.
In early January we announced that Carrington Collage Californian received conditional approval from its accreditor to add the campuses of Carrington Collage to its existing campus network pending successful site visits.
These site visits were completed in March and early April and well keep you posted on the results.
What does this mean? Well academically as one collage students will benefit from unification of knowledge experience and talents of the faculty and program directors of both institutions.
Operationally the combination will allow us to pool resources so Carrington can operate in a more efficient and effective manner.
In fact Carrington has already merged its three home offices into one location.
So we are really excited about Carringtons progress and on an comparable basis we continue to deliver positive enrollment growth and improving economics.
Our diversification strategy is also paying off at our international and professional education segment.
DeVry Brasils revenues were up with solid enrollment growth.
DeVry Brasils reputation is strong and growing.
During the quarter one of our institutions Une Favip received official notice that the Ministry of Education had granted the institution Centro Universitrio status and thats why we changed the name from Favip to Une Favip.
This new status is really a mark of quality and enables us to meet student demand by offering programs and seats more quickly including rolling out online programs.
Also during the quarter we received approval to offer nine new degree programs across our DeVry Brasil institution.
These programs cover many high demand career fields such as industrial electrical and environmental engineering as well as building construction and business administration.
These programs will strengthen our offerings in engineering and enable several of our institutions to offer programs where they didnt have a presence before.
We are very excited about the opportunities that exist for us in Brazil both in these organic growth opportunities as well as through our acquisition pipeline.
We believe we have a strong management team strong acquisition integration playbook and a reputation as we acquirer a choice in northeast Brazil.
Turning to Becker Professional Education another exciting quarter.
The AICPA began awarding National Elijah Watts Sells Awards in 2004 to top performs in the CPA exam and since that time we are very proud that over 90% of these honorees prepared with Beckers CPA review.
And we just learnt that of the 2013 Watts Sells award winners 51 of 55 were Beckers students; thats about 93% so little better than the long term average.
So to summarize this second imperative our diversification our diversification in high growth career fields degree levels and geographies continues to position us for long-term growth.
The strategy has driver year-over-year revenue growth at all of our healthcare international and professional institutions.
Before I turn it over to Tim I just want to note that DeVry Education Group had a strong presence at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games in our role as an official education partner of team USA.
Nearly 150 team USA student athletics are enrolled at DeVry University and Keller Graduate School of Management.
16 of them competed in the 2014 Olympic and Paralympic Olympic Winter Games.
After Westminster College in Utah who enrolls a lot of skiers DeVry University had more athletics make the team than another university.
Two in fact were taking classes while they competed at the Olympics which really demonstrates the flexibility of our programs and three of our students won a total of four medals.
Our athletes were able to share their personal stores about how they are earnings their degrees while training and competing for the Olympics.
Not only did the media take notice but so did the social media world as well as our own students and alumni.
We believe this unique partnership can be transformational for DeVry Groups plans and reputation.
I had an opportunity to personally meet some of these student athletics.
They are amazing and their hard work inspires us.
We hope their stories inspire others who struggle with balancing school and work priorities to see that you can indeed accomplish both.
And so with that let me turn it over to Tim.
Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before we get to the financial results I'd like to take a few moments to discuss how were thinking about cost reductions and their impact as a result of the structural changes underway at DeVry University.
Since the beginning of fiscal 2012 weve been intensely focused on driving our cost to offset the declines in enrollment.
So whats different today? We are taking a more aggressive approach.
We know that its still a difficult market and we dont see signs of a large up tick enrollments in the near future.
This means we have to size the university to this new reality.
It means we have to change the way we deliver services to our students.
We are taking a step-back and asking if we created DeVry University from scratch today what would it look like? How would we deliver services to students at a lower cost without compromising the quality experience? Weve undertaken some long-term initiatives which not only reduce expenses but it can improve service quality and these initiatives shift costs to a more variable model.
One example is the centralization of our colleague recruiting functions across DeVry Group Organization.
Another example is the move from multiple systems to a common CRM platform.
Its a better system and easier to train our colleagues to use.
It improves our ability to support our students and we saved over $1 million.
We are focused on increasing our class sizes at the campuses to operate more efficiently while preserving and enhancing the student learning experience.
Were also continuing to optimize our real-estate footprint.
Since fiscal 2012 weve optimized over a dozen locations and correctly we have five additional consolidations underway.
In addition weve been able to realize additional saving from reduced headcount in finding ways to operate without filling open positions.
As we did last year weve beaten our cost savings goal at our institutions in transition.
The key drivers include more efficient marketing optimizing core scheduling to better utilize classrooms and managing open positions.
Therefore weve increased the total cost savings target for our institutions in transition to at least $100 million up from $60 million initially planed in fiscal 2014.
I will now turn to our financial results.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2014 revenues from continuing operations were $496 million.
Year-to-date revenue from continuing operations totaled $1.4 billion.
Year-to-date all of our institutions have grown revenue except for DeVry University.
Finding growth in this environment in an impressive achievement.
If everything goes as planned we expect the same result in the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date revenues at our growing institutions increased nearly 17% to $612 million.
The increase was offset by a 14% decrease to $829 million in revenues at our institutions in transaction.
Total third quarter costs at our growing institutions were $160 million an increase of 22%.
These costs reflect new programs campuses and recent acquisitions in Brazil.
Total costs from continuing operations for the quarter were $427 million about flat with last year.
For nine months costs excluding special items totaled $1.3 billion up slightly from last year.
Investments in our growth institutions are running slightly higher than the cost reductions achieved at our institutions in transition.
We reported a net income of $55.5 million for the quarter and $97 million for the nine month period.
This resulted in earnings per share of $0.86 for the quarter and $1.49 year-to-date.
Net income from continuing operations was $56.8 million and earnings per share from continuing operations was $0.87.
Our effective income tax rate was 18.7% for the quarter and 16.9% year-to-date.
This rate was slightly higher than expected because of better performance from our U.S.
institutions.
We expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for the fourth quarter will be in the 17% to 18% range.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue of $205 million was up 17% in the third quarter.
Segment revenue was up nearly 14% over prior year in the first nine months with strong enrollment growth at Chamberlain and DeVry Medical International.
Operating income for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter was $46 million representing an increase of 28% from the prior year excluding special items.
During the first nine months segment operating income grew 26% excluding special items.
This is largely driven by solid growth in Chamberlains Post licensure programs and a continued narrowing of operating losses at Carrington.
Its significant to note that this segment now accounts for nearly two-thirds of DeVry Groups operating income.
Chamberlain new student enrollment grew almost 56% and total students grew more than 37% reflecting strong demand for our Family Nurse Practitioner and Doctor of Nurse Practitioner Degree programs.
Carrington revenues grew 2% in the first nine months.
As expected new students were below last year of programs currently in Teachout.
Our programs in Teachout new students increased about 1% and total students increased nearly 8.5%.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment.
Revenues of $51 million increased 10% in the quarter.
In the first nine months segment revenue grew almost 15%.
At Becker revenue grew nearly 5%; and at DeVry Brasil revenue increased 15% in the quarter.
The increase at DeVry Brasil was driven by organic growth and by the acquisition of the CG.
New student enrollments increased nearly 20% and total students grew nearly 14%.
The segment's income was $7 million down $3 million reflecting recent acquisitions and investments to fuel future growth at DeVry Brasil.
And finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenues were down 15% during the quarter and 16% for the first nine months.
This is a result of lower enrollments and lower undergraduate revenue per student which was down about 1% in quarter.
Lower revenue per student reflects the higher use of scholarships over the last several sessions.
New student enrollment continued to narrow its decline sequentially.
New students were down 2.5% in March versus a decline of nearly 8% in January.
And while we are pleased by this improvement we continued to operate in a choppy enrollment environment.
the segment generated operating income of nearly $23 million compared to $35 million last year excluding special items.
Now taking a look at the fourth quarter we expect all our institutions to grow revenue except DeVry University.
In fact we expect to see modest revenue growth year-over-year for the first time since 2011.
We expect our operating cost to be down year over year but up sequentially in the fourth quarter based on investments in our growth institutions to take advantage of their strong market position and to fuel future growth.
Ill now turn the call over to call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat.
Thanks Tim.
Good afternoon everyone.
Ill start with noting that our bad debt rate continues to one of the lowest among Private Sector Collages and Universities.
Year-to-date bad debt as a percentage of revenue was about 2% reflecting the value proposition of our programs and our teams focus on student financial aid in the collections process.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $161 million down 6% from the prior year as a result of lower revenues at DeVry University.
Weve been working with our institutional leaders to more aggressively manage our capital spend and now we expect capital spending for the fiscal year in the $70 million to $80 million which is lower than our original expectations.
Capital spending for the first nine months was $48 million with more than two-thirds being deployed to our Medical and Healthcare and International institutions to drive future growth.
Cash flow from operations for the nine moths was $261 million.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $397 million at March 31 compared to $278 million a year ago.
Overall our solid financial position and cash flow generation in the first nine months of the fiscal year gives DeVry Group the flexibility to reinvest in quality and growth in the fourth quarter and beyond.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Okay thank you Pat.
And to wrap up were accelerating our efforts to improve DeVry Groups performance.
Were turning around and transforming DeVry University by looking at how we can better deliver quality academic outcomes and student service more efficiently.
Im proud of the increased sense of urgency of our team and believe our achievements this year will set us on the proper path for next year fiscal 2015.
We know we have a lot of work to do but it did feel good to see Carringtons progress in getting back in the black and DeVry Universitys moment defined narrow.
Well also continue to focus on investing in the expansion of our healthcare professional and international institutions.
Our formula of quality plus diversification will continue to distinguish DeVry Group and will drive our future growth.
Diversification has really been key for us with total enrollments across all DeVry Group institutions growing 1.7% to over 120 000 DeVry CFA students.
And just lastly before we turn the call over to your questions Id like to thank my DeVry Group colleagues.
One of the key reasons I feel confident well achieve our goal is their commitment to transforming DeVry University and to continuing to grow our other diversified institutions.
So now were really eager to hear your thoughts and questions.
Joan if youll turn it over to the instructions.
Great.
So Laura if you could come on the line and give our callers the instructions on asking a question wed appreciate it.
Certainly.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Suzi Stein of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Can you just clarify what youre doing in terms of pricing in business technology and management? I dont know if I totally got that and also what are your expectations of revenue per student when the discounts are fully loaded in the numbers and then I guess finally on pricing what are you seeing competitively? Okay.
Lets see if we can unpack that a little bit.
What were doing is we are taking a number of actions and the first one is to take the number of credit hours that the students need to take in order to qualify for the first full time discount from seven hours to eight hours okay.
And then that will be reinvesting some of  what that frees up in increased levels of scholarships for students.
At the same time what were doing is introducing the DeVry University Fixed Tuition Promise.
So thats the promise that once your enroll at DeVry University your tuition wont go up.
It will go up on the next cohort after you but it wont go up for you.
So thats in the pricing work.
Everything there is geared around attracting new students and secondly in giving students incentives to persist and graduate and Im really pleased the team has developed these new strategies very quickly.
Weve got a set of work streams that are working with a real sense of urgency and we put that whole pricing strategy together.
In terms of revenue per student I think Pat Unzicker can you address that one.
Revenue per student in the quarter for DeVry University and graduate is down about 1% and for the fourth quarter we expect it to be pretty consistent trends for the past couple.
What about longer term? How are you thinking about that number longer term and the discounts that youre offering? Sure.
I think well have some continued pressure in that 1% to 2% range.
I think what were looking at is enhancing the value proposition.
We expect the programmatic focus will allow us to really target students better but in the meantime weve been more aggressive with the pricing so we see this kind of 1% to 2% pressure and we hope at some point that the programmatic focus will allow us to stabilize that.
You know we dont see a need for it at this point for wholesale changes in our pricing.
Okay and then just in terms of what youre seeing competitively have you seen any response to your pricing competitively? No I cant say that we have.
Theres so many colleges and universities out their Suzie who would be in a competitive consideration set.
Its very hard to draw a single trend on that.
Some other colleges and universities that Id say wed compete with.
I think here were talking about DeVry University have put through modest price increases and some others have reduced price so not a clear trend.
But Id say overall the one thing that were seeing among our students is we do understand that this concern is about affordability and so were trying to respond to that and listen to our students and offer them some of these mechanisms to help them afford their education while the overall positioning of the university is in line with our strategy.
Our strategy is a quality positioning.
Its about careers and care and people realize that it takes resources to deliver those career outcomes and deliver that student support and care.
So its not a low priced bargain based in kind of positioning.
So we like the positioning that we have and were just adding to the scholarship to help students out right now while the economy is still a little but sluggish.
Great thank you.
And the next question will come from Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Just a question around the BTM margins.
Obviously youve been taking costs out.
You mentioned earlier that you didnt expect any near term pick up and new enrollment and obviously you are doing some pricing initiatives.
Im just wondering as you look out if you want to comment on next year.
Do you continue to think you can be profitable in BTM and what would have to happen for you not to be profitable? Thanks.
Paul we know for sure just given the nature of the kind of institution that DeVry University is.
That it takes 18 to 24 months from the time that the new student numbers go positive before well see total enrollments.
So we anticipate declining revenues for DeVry University next year and thats why youre seeing us be substantially more aggressive in class.
Weve been working with the team on that.
Were ahead of where we started the year but its important given the lower revenues next year that we continue to be aggressive in cost reductions and thats why you hear us talking about structural changes and taking a fresh look.
So our expectation is that we will maintain a positive segment margin for DeVry University and positive cash flow.
That means that weve got to be fairly aggressive on our cost actions as we go into next year as we face lower revenues.
Great.
And you talked about a pick up in sort of the quality of your perspective students.
Can you just talk a little bit more about that how you achieved that how thats happening? Thanks.
Sure.
One example of that is for students to qualify for some of the scholarships that we mentioned before they need to have certain academic credentials coming into the Universities in terms of their test results GPAs those kinds of things.
So thats one of the ways that were seeing a stronger student and thats part of the strategy.
If I could just sneak in one more; when you moved to the full time discount from seven hours to eight hours what percent of your student body does that impact and are you expecting a weaker persistence you percept through.
Thanks.
I dont know the exact number that it impacts but its not an insignificant number and thats the bit that well be watching.
We have others ins and outs on persistence and Id say overall were seeing improvement in persistence.
We saw that this quarter and we expect told ourselves accountable for maintaining and even enhancing persistence a little bit thats what I would be expecting.
Paul its Tim.
One of the things that we talk a lot about is the scholarship and how weve increased the scholarship allocation but a very important element in some of our programs for students to help students with affordability.
The full time discount is a big one so we think we can be more effective by reallocating some of those dollars to other areas that we think will drive new students and persistence.
So after a careful look at it we felt that this is a right way to allocate or make more funds available so that we can have a more immediate impact.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Sara Gubins of BofA Merrill Lynch.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
Practically speaking what is the vertical structure around program mean for the organization? Is this a change in enrollment advisor responsibilities professor responsibilities or others? Thanks Sara.
Its really not for the professors.
I mean they are already teaching in the vertical area or the programmatic area that they are in so we wouldnt have an impact there.
Well and this point not really with the admissions advisors.
Its really having programmatically focused teams who have academic responsibilities marketing responsibilities student service responsibilities and those teams are driving to make sure that every program is tailored to best be packaged and have the right content and have the right other characteristics to meet the needs of the students they are just trying to serve and the employers that its trying to serve and then secondly to better communicate that value proposition program by program.
Somebody compared it the other day to this GEICO insurance.
Everybody knows GEICO does a great job.
I didnt know that they had boat insurance I didnt know that they had motorcycle insurance I didnt know that they had these particular kind of services.
So theres like sort of like you know DeVry University but do you know DeVry University accounting do you know DeVry University  and thats a good example because even the best kept secrets is DeVry University is one of the largest enrollments of accounting students in the country and a lot of people dont even realize that.
So thats an example of it.
More programmatic focus we think will help us attract students and improve the conversion of students who are interested in those specific programs.
Okay great.
And then in terms of demand for DeVry University undergrad it doesnt sound like your seeing or expecting much pick up in your student enrollment but given the fairly modest declines in the March term do you think were at a point where we could start to see modest start growth or is demand just really not looking like we could get there? Yes Sara I know what your saying and Id like to be able to report that but we really cant.
I think March enrollments were supported a bit by the carrier through a catalyst program we had.
We dont have that in May and so I like the overall trend line but I think its going to be choppy around that line and Id say its more likely to look like January than March.
In May I think well be able to offset some of that with better persistence but it is still just a little bit challenging out there.
So were focusing on control what we can control and that turning plan that we talked about with some of those specific and focused and aggressive moves that the team is making around optimizing pricing optimizing the market and including programmatic focus and theres several others.
Those are three of the big ones I highlighted and thats how we think we can improve our results.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Tim I was hoping youd help us understand how your thinking about the cost dynamics going forward here and then specifically wondering about balancing the cutting your doing at DeVry University with the incremental investment spend in the health related business.
This doesnt imply that maybe overall costs over the next year are flattish or are they up a little? Yes so I think the challenge for us and for you I think following us has been its a complicated story right.
Resetting few of our institutions made great progress at Carrington but at DeVry University we know we have to be more aggressive given the down enrollments.
The other side is that we have to play and make investments in these areas where we have good positioning and theres a supply demand imbalance and were delivering good value to the students.
So thats been a challenge for us but we think its the right thing to do for the students and for our other constituent group shareholders is that were in DeVry Brasil in Chamber and College of Nursing.
You know Daniel mentioned that were hopeful that we can get an additional campus in next year.
We think its really important to try and articulate what were doing and really make those investments where we think they will allow us to position ourselves and really capture some of this demand thats out there.
So yes I think you know were not done rolling up our plan for next year but kind of flattish.
Weve been seeing that the cost reductions arent quite on putting the increases where were making these investments and we think its the right thing to do.
Well see how things kind of play out and have more to say about that on our next call.
Could I ask it a slightly different way then? So youve seen some pretty good margin progression in the health related units.
Youve mentioned expectations at DeVry University stays positive next year.
I think that would imply overall margins should see some improvement going forward.
Is that fair? Well we think DeVry University will loosen the  were expecting kind of the mid to low single digits align margin.
Low single digits was the last reported guidance.
We did a little better in the third quarter but they are going to have a lot of pressure to hold that but we want to make sure that they maintain positive so therell probably be some deterioration there.
You know our guiding principal for the other institutions when we can is to try not to have margin erosion and we try and keep our investments equal to the revenue growth thats the target.
Sometimes well make decisions to let them spend a bit more if we have a good opportunity.
But again well have more on that on the next call.
Thanks.
And then just quickly on Brazil the various new program offerings does that translate potentially into some faster growth over the next several quarters and can you talk about any incremental cost implications associated with that as youll lease things out? Sure.
We are pleased to see the nine new program and theres many more that are in the queue at the ministry of education there in Brazil for approval and were pleased with that because that gives us more opportunity for organic growth complementing the nice growth that weve seen through the successful acquisitions and successful integrations that weve done.
So yes I think it does give us more opportunity for growth.
Be careful with the comparisons because there is some acquisition in that number that you saw with Facid in there but yes in general I would say it does give us more opportunity for growth.
Well DeVry Brasil this has been a year up here of making some retrenchment investments.
You know weve had significant growth and you can see it in their numbers.
So weve made some conscious decisions around and put some infrastructure in place to roll these acquisitions in.
So again I think you know youll them those numbers kind of mitigate themselves and then we should have opportunity for additional growth next year as Daniel pointed out.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Jeffrey Volshteyn of JP Morgan.
Thank you for taking my question.
I wanted to follow up on BTM margins.
So in the theoretical example in trying to do a sensitivity on the margin what has to happen with enrollments within BTM where margin can be flat or a zero number? Im not sure.
Jeff are you saying from 14 to 15 what would we have to do to have the segment margin stay flat? Im saying to run the breakeven business within BTM what has to happen with enrollments? Well I think its really what has to happen with costs.
The enrollments the die is cast in many ways in terms of the 18 to 24 months it takes.
So the real challenge for us is to be more structural in our cost adjustments and thats what were working on.
So I think we will  as Dan mentioned kind of this view that we see some choppy enrollments.
Weve seen improvements minus 2.5% but really the trick is we go onto 15 and maintaining positive segment margin as being more aggressive being more structural in our cost reductions and we think thats an opportunity as we look at this and kind of clean sheet of paper it we see a number of opportunities where we can leverage technology and centralization and scale.
So I think its the right time to do that but I think thats really where our focus is.
Were obviously working on pricing programmatic focus.
Were working on things as Daniel said in his comments to stabilize our enrollment and then position for growth.
I think those are all the right things to do but my intention is 80% focused on the structural issues and driving the cost out.
Thats helpful.
When I look at the fourth quarter the margin for medical and healthcare segment the comparable in the fourth quarter last year is rather difficult.
Do you expect the margin to stay positive in the fourth quarter? Margin to stay positive the medical and healthcare segment? Yes yes.
Yes.
Okay one last question if I may.
Can you compare the number of graduates in fiscal 2014 to the previous year? I think why dont we have Joan get back to you on that? We dont have that in the room with us today but I think she can give you some idea of whats happening there.
Youre talking about DeVry University? Sure.
Yes a marked number of students have graduated from the university there.
Thats good.
Right okay.
Good well give that.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Good evening.
This is David Warner for Corey.
I just wanted to ask you about the fixed tuition promise that you mentioned.
Is that an effective tuition fees for all existing and new students? Yes exactly.
Okay but you could potentially raise price for new students but that would just  you know they would just be locked in.
Is that? Exactly so its more of a cohort the pricing model if you will so that the next class coming in could see a price increase but that would apply to them going forward.
Got it.
Okay and then just to delve in a little bit I know youve answered quite a few questions about the cost reductions but sort of the things you alluded to centralization of back office functions increased class either the real estate rationalization.
Do you think that these are things that youve been doing and had some success with over the past few years and bring down your cost structures? <br> So Im just wondering if there are  how much room is left to drive these additional costs out and if you dont see stabilization and enrollment declines in the BTM segment are you considering maybe more drastic changes to the learning model moving more students online experimenting with competency based anything of that nature? Sure.
I would say were closer to the drastic side.
Were staring at the segment margin and were intensely focused there but I would say there is substantial room to do additional things when you kind of step back and change your paradigm.
So we think we have some scale both from our campus and online.
We know our campuses are under utilized.
We know we do have a good product at the campuses we see that in our net promoter score so the trick for us to step back and say okay given that were so close to breakeven it really have challenged all the teams to say you know how do we work better how do we collapse some of these structures internally how do we capture the scale.
So I think we are in a position where were taking a hard look at that competency basis on the drawing board.
So I think all those issues are in front of us.
The thing that really gives us confidence is we know that DeVry University has been profitable at these revenue levels in the past.
We see inside the four walls of the institution good results for the students we see that in their employment statistics we see it in the net promoter score.
So I think inside those were thinking about those things in the light of how do we get these structural costs out.
I think is really the big kind of thinking thats going on and were making good progress there.
You can see it in upping our savings target this year and were aggressively working to drive the cost up for next year so that we can maintain that positive margin.
Great.
And you mentioned just to switch gears over to DeVry Brasil you mentioned the new student number theres a strong new student number but there was some recent acquisition new students in there.
Can you give us an idea of maybe what the growth there is on maybe a same store basis just looking at those institutions that you know have been in the portfolio for a year or more? Yes so we had one acquisition this year where we havent fully anniversaried yet and that was the CG and both on a quarter as well as the nine months year-to-date.
Its headed about not quite 100 basis points to overall DeVry Education Group revenue growth.
Okay and the other color that Ill give you on that one David is remember in DeVry Brasil you really only start to do this twice a year for the most part and so this class that were just reporting on is the bigger one and we tend to run  some of the programs have caps on them and its an annual cap on a calendar year basis and so if were able if we have the demand from students and they qualify well take them in that first class of that calendar year and that sometimes gives a little less room for the second class of the calendar year which will be during the fall our fall the North American fall.
So thats just something to keep in mind from that standpoint.
Thats okay.
And the next question comes from Jeff Meuler of Baird.
Yes thank you.
Can you guys give us some sense of what Chamberlain profitability looks like not just for the quarter but just kind of on an ongoing annualized basis.
Chamberlain is in the 20% you know the lower 20% range.
Operating margin right? Yes.
Okay.
And then how are you guys thinking about a longer term  use whatever timeframe you want but Im thinking like the three to five year timeframe in terms of the enrollment growth or revenue growth potential for Chamberlain? Boy! We think that theres a lot of opportunity for the Chamberlain College of Nursing because the demand is so great in the world of nursing both at the pre licensure level that is students going to get their registered nursing license for the first time in our campus base BSN programs and then also at the post licensure level for students maybe going from our end to a BSN or going on to a masters or doctoral level.
So sort of across the board we think there is room for good you said two to three but maybe its going to be slightly more campuses per year for quite some time our long range plan.
We kind of do a five year strategic plan and enroll that every year and that continues to be the case and for that kind of a planning horizon at least and then again on the post licensure online side as well.
So very good prospects for the Chamberlain College of Nursing.
So when you roll all that together I mean is 15% plus enrollment growth achievable for the next several years? I think it probably is.
Its hard for me to put an exact number on that for everyone because we dont generally do that but something along the lines which were talking about I dont think is out of the realm of possibility.
Okay and then just to clean up for one of my fellow  Jeffs Mr.
Volshteyn last question.
I think there may have been some confusion.
In terms of the medical and healthcare Q4 operating margin is it going to be up year-over-year? Right and by the way I really appreciate the teamwork here.
You know weve just got to stick together.
Hopefully Mr.
Silber will help me out one of these days.
Exactly.
The answer is yes.
And the answer is yes.
Okay thank you.
And next we have a question from Jeff Silber of BMO Capital Markets.
Alright we hit the tri-sector here.
Is it on queue Jeff.
I think thats You guys planned this.
No I really do appreciate how youre all collectively with us living one of our values.
We call them the teach values and the first one is teamwork and communication.
So thank you for that.
All right well Im going to go off on my own solo on this one then.
Oh now thats bad.
In the prepared remarks you talked about one of the changes would be increasing class size and I think that was just at DeVry University.
Can we just get a little bit more color on what that entails? Yes exactly.
Thats an example of how we can  people say well gosh you got to reduce cost while maintaining and even enhancing service to students thats hard to do.
Well it is hard to do and thats why we have a team thats working very hard on doing that but were able to do it and this is a good example of it.
In that we sometimes have some class sizes that are kind of small but if we can do a better job of scheduling and make sure that we take into account student preference and our efficiency at the same time we can bundle some of the class sizes and put two smaller sections together and you get a bigger class size.
Now you save some teaching cost and delivered as good or maybe even a better student experience learning experience at the same time.
And another way to do that is by deploying technology including  and weve done this for a long time but the technology is way better today which is video conferencing technology and weve been using that at DeVry University campuses to have a shared section across multiple campuses two or three campuses at the same time.
Say you take X at this campus Y at this Campus and Z at that campus and add X Y and Z together with one faculty member teaching one combined section across three campuses and the feedback we are getting from students is very positive.
It feels good it feels like a good learning experience the academic outcomes are good and its just like a live experience if the professor was in your classroom.
Sometimes we rotate and have the professor move around if some of those locations are within that distance.
So those are examples of how the class size can go up in some of those cases and improve our cost and improve our service as the same time.
So if we were to quantify that roughly how much will average class sizes increase? I think overall for the University for FY15 it might be hard to measure that meaningful on the needle.
But it could be significant in terms of the economic impact for us in the millions of dollars.
Okay all right thats great and then just one follow up.
You talked about the cost reductions being at least $100 million.
Can we just set that framework; its a saving off what base and will that all be done by the end of the year so we can kind of start fresh next year to quantify that or see the impact? Sure Jeff this Pat.
So to quantify that that cost savings specifically within our institutions in transaction thats DeVry University and Carrington Collages and thats off the prior year fiscal base so meaning that FY14 total expenses for those institutions would be a $100 million lower than the previous fiscal year.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Next we have a question from Jerry Herman of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Thanks.
Hi everybody.
I was hoping that you guys would quantify the impact of the career catalyst scholarship similarly to what you helped us with in the fall term.
What did we do in the fall term? Im getting older I cant remember.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Well you gave some framework about how you got slapped with that influence and what percentage of students actually were involved with that program in that period and again I think you gave some rough number on what that exact impact was or percentage impact was.
How about I follow-up with you Jerry on that.
Ill try to get it before any follow-up call.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Okay.
And let me just ask a little with a clarification on the fourth quarter communicated that youd had revenue growth.
Your operating expense is down slightly but up sequentially.
Operating expense is down year-over-year but up sequentially.
Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> And then did you go on to say to Peters question about next year that youre thinking about OpEx at flattish.
Did I hear thats sort of what your thinking there? We said that we havent resolved that completely.
It would be in the range of flat.
It could be up a little bit could be down a little bit.
We havent rolled up the 15 stuff yet.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Okay and I know the environment has been very challenging here.
Daniel a question for you.
In 2012 2013 you talked about the period 2014 through 2016 being a period of recovery and growth.
I mean is that getting pushed out in your mind? Clearly we are into that timeframe here but it would appear to be pushing up.
Yes I think thats fair that we are clearly about a year behind that is what we thought at that period of time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Okay great.
I do think that some of that obviously not being alone in that so you have the collages in the countries with negative enrolment growth community collage is down for three years in a row and all collages in the country down two years in a row.
The number one driver is sort of the economy and the impact on consumer confidence and so as that sort of dragged a little bit and thats impacted many of the students who were waiting to serve at DeVry University as well.
You can see it really hasnt had that impact and other institutions that we are operating in the same country they are seeing very different results with Medical or Brazil.
So kind of the same values the same processes all of the same things happening yet a different result.
So that it does sort of indicate to us that the macro-picture has been the biggest driver of that push-out of the timeframe.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
</strong> Great I appreciate it.
Ill turn it over.
The next question is from Trace Urdan of Wells Fargo.
Thanks very much.
So I appreciated the little kind of snapshot you gave us about the accounting program Daniel and I wondered if you could Im doubting Im going to get you to give me the rates by program offering.
But my questions is that with the 2.5% decline in new student starts that would seem to imply that you got a range across the programs in terms of what your seeing and I would even venture to guess that maybe this volatility that you described is probably concentrated on a smaller number of programs too and there maybe some of those programs like accounting for example where you maybe have a little bit more of stable trend that you could point to.
So I wondered if you could I wont even dare to ask for quantitative but maybe you could just sort of qualitatively describer particularly since your now looking to organize around program offerings maybe even by these four segments.
Like give us a picture of what youre seeing? That just gives a little bit more context for trying to understand whats happening.
Yes I get the question Trace its an excellent one and you are right.
Well its a little different now from what we saw lets say a year ago.
A year ago while we were down and we are down now granted we were sort of just everything was down.
So it was just red lights we had this red green report.
There was this red right down the page in every program now theres some green.
So you know there is much more variability than it was a year ago exactly as you had hypothesized and I would say that there is more green on the business side.
So those two groups of undergraduate business and then Keller Graduate School of Management have more green than some of the Engineering Information Sciences (NYSEARCA:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EIS" title="iShares MSCI Israel Capped ETF">EIS</a>) as we call it area.
Some green within that too.
But technology did a little was a little bit stronger.
Im sorry business was a little bit stronger than technology and a good example in business was accounting as I mentioned which I think represents our programmatic focus in the early stages.
Okay and then related to that are there any programs that are so consistently red that you think maybe you shouldnt be in those areas anymore and do you even think about it in those terms.
Yes we do think about it in those terms and I think were increasingly  the sense of urgency has gone up Im asking that question at the programmatic level and thats what the programmatic focus strategy is all about is to ask that question.
And yes and we have retired programs in the past and I think there maybe a few that could find themselves in a situation.
There could be some other programs that may be have demand kind of overall nation wide but at any one geography.
We are not doing that well and so we could continue to teach those online.
Thats one of the great advantages that we have with having a strong national footprint and high quality online on a nation wide basis.
It gives us the ability to that a little bit better than some other competitors might be able to do so thanks for that.
Okay and then if I could just squeeze one more in.
So Daniel you talked about communication as being a big of this reorganization and Im wondering if we might actually see some of your advertising communication change as a result of this programmatic focus.
Like for example would you be potentially advertising and putting more dollars behind a DeVry accounting message relative to some other program.
Yes thats exactly right Trace and I think you would see that kind of like GEICO.
All of a sudden you see more commercial about their motorcycle or their boat that you can see that and its not just advertising its the whole approach.
The way that you go reach out to the market and to the community for certain programs in health and health technology is maybe more feet on the street.
People going out to hospitals and speaking to the people that are relevant there somewhat focused audience and so using media would be a little bit inefficient.
Whereas for other programs and business you know Cloud based media will work a little bit better.
So its really much more targeted more tailored approach to each programmatic area.
Great thank you.
Thanks Trace.
Okay Laura we have time for just one last question.
Okay and that question will come from Tim Connor of William Blair.
Thanks.
How are you thinking about pricing as your growing institutions? I think there are opportunities for price increases in Nursing and Medical and Veterinary Medical at DeVry Brasil.
So yes pretty much at all of those particularly in nursing at the pre-licensure level a little bit more than at the post-licensure level and I think that pretty much covers a lot of front there.
Okay and then the career catalyst scholarship I understand youre maybe scaling back the usage there.
But it looks like it drove significantly better starts in November and March than in the quarters in which you didnt have it fully marketed.
So I wanted to understand the reasons for maybe pulling back a little bit on that and if you might revisit that at some point? Sure absolutely.
Well listen our plan for year was to offer two what we call call to action events.
One targeted at the September class and the other targeted at the March class.
And so we will analyze what happened in March and keep you posted on that.
We do plan to offer other scholarship programs each session with the goals of increasing new students and encouraging persistence and Im really pleased how the team is moving more decisively here like we talked about moving from the seven to the eight reallocating some of that to increasing funding in other scholarships implementing the fixed tuition promise and so those are strong moves.
We are excited to see how they can help students better afforded their education.
So as we move to into FY 15 well keep you updated on how that strategy is progressing.
Okay thanks and final one from me.
Youre given that Carrington new enrolment was up your year over year excluding the teach-out campuses.
Is it too early to say that segment is in recovery and then also when do you expect to see the cost savings see-through from the Carrington consolidation? Yes we are already starting to see some of that with the home office.
Therell be more pending the approval from our creditor there so it should be coming soon.
And yes I think by the time maybe even in your next call we will sort of take them out of turnaround model.
I dont want to take our foot off the gas here too soon but yes its clear that the turnaround plan has been effective its working.
We are on the verge of moving it from turnaround mode to recovery mode.
I think thats fair.
So thank you Timo for that and well wrap it up.
So with that I would like to thank everyone for your questions and remind you that our next quarterly results call is scheduled for August 7 when we announce our fiscal 2014 fourth quarter and year end results.
The summer goes by too quickly in Chicago so that will be here sooner than we know it.
But thank you all for your continued support of DeVry Education Group.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the DeVry Education Group Fourth Quarter and Year End Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Joan Walter Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry Education Group's leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'd like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements with respect to the future performance and financial condition of DeVry Education Group that involve risks and uncertainties.
Various factors could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied.
These factors are discussed under risk factors and elsewhere in our quarterly reports and Form 10-K for fiscal year 2013 filed with the SEC which is available on our website at www.devryeducationgroup.com.
DeVry Group disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Additionally during the call we may refer to non-GAAP financial measures which are intended to supplement but not substitute for our most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our press release which contains the financial and other quantitative information to be discussed today as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is also available on our website.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until August 29.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for information.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Daniel.
Thank you Joan.
Thanks to everybody for joining us on the call today.
During the quarter revenues increased modestly.
And it feels good to say that as we've been narrowing the rate of decline in the last several quarters and now we've returned revenue growth.
We also saw growth in both new and total students at DeVry Group overall.
New students were up 8.1% and total students were up 2.1%.
Strong enrollment at our growing institutions continue to mitigate the challenging environment for DeVry University.
Factors contributing to our results this quarter included the following: we delivered solid growth at Chamberlain DeVry Medical International DeVry Brasil and Becker; we made progress in our goal of turning around and transforming DeVry University despite the decline in new student enrollment; and we continued to reduce costs while investing in the quality of our programs.
So our strategy of quality plus diversification plus long-term thinking has positioned us well for both the challenging environment in U.S.
business and technology education and for growth opportunities beyond that.
This strategy has 2 overarching objectives: turnaround and transform DeVry University; and continue our growth via diversification.
Let me provide an update in our progress toward these overarching objectives.
As a reminder our plan to turnaround and transform DeVry University includes attracting the right students into strong programs; reducing our cost structure while maintaining and even enhancing our service to students; regaining DeVry University's technology edge; and then developing and supporting the team to execute the plan.
The plan starts with our enhanced programmatic focus.
That means ensuring that our programs are designed to best meet the needs of our students and employers and better communicating the value proposition of each program.
Near term our priorities include optimizing our portfolio of programs which could include the consolidation of some program offerings and the enhancement of others improving the efficiency and effectiveness of our marketing and recruiting processes and then refining our pricing strategy with the goals of increasing new students and encouraging persistence.
Let me say a little bit of more about that.
Beginning in the July session we restructured several elements of tuition pricing.
We increased the number of credit hours a student must take per session to receive the full-time discount and reallocated some of the savings to increase funding for other scholarship programs.
For the upcoming session in September we're offering the merit-based Career Catalyst Scholarship for up to $20 000 to eligible students.
In addition we plan to enhance our scholarship programs at the graduate level in fiscal 2015.
One of our strongest messages is the value employers attach to a DeVry University Education as they consistently hire our graduates to fill their jobs and send their existing employees to us for continuing education.
We announced the latest graduate employment results in today's release and they remained above our goal of 90%.
Actually 90.9% of our graduates in the active job market were employed in the field of study within 6 months of graduation and they're earning an average of about $44 300 annually.
And increasingly we're working with large employers to help them attract retain and upscale their workforces.
Today DeVry University service more than 3 700 students from 400 corporate partners as well as government agencies and even the world of sports.
We serve as an official education partner to Team USA.
In this quarter we announced a new relationship as the exclusive educator of the National Football League Alumni Association.
So that's an update on our actions to stabilize enrollments maintain quality and get back to growth at DeVry University.
The end of our fiscal year is a good time to take a step back.
While we didn't achieve our goal for new students over 40 000 new students enrolled in DeVry University this past year.
That's 40 000 people who selected us to help them achieve their educational and career goals 40 000 students who see the value proposition of DeVry University as the career university.
Let me update you on one other point in the DeVry University turnaround and transformation plan and that's reducing our cost structure while maintaining and even enhancing our students -- our service to students.
We worked hard to control costs throughout the year and we reduced them by nearly $100 million at DeVry University.
One recent example of our value creation efforts is our negotiations with publishers.
This has reduced cost for us and for our students while enhancing revenue as well via increased adoption of eBooks.
Tim will provide more color on reducing costs in fiscal '15.
Now DeVry Group's second overarching objective is to continue our growth through diversification in our health care professional and international institutions.
To do this we're making investments in quality and infrastructure to support this growth.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we delivered strong enrollment growth this quarter particularly in our Masters and Doctoral programs and there continues to be strong market demand.
We're also continuing to expand the number of Chamberlain campuses.
We received approval from the Higher Learning Commission for our second location in Houston which will open this fall.
We've previously targeted 2 to 3 new campus openings for fiscal 2015 and the good news is that we're now targeting 4 pending approvals.
Chamberlain also continues to exemplify our commitment to academic quality.
We recently announced that Chamberlain's President Susan Groenwald will be inducted as a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing and the National League for Nursing's Academy of Nursing Education.
Dr.
Groenwald's induction into these prestigious academies we recognize as our significant and sustaining contributions to nursing -- into nursing education specifically through her early work in oncology and her more recent leadership of Chamberlain.
Let me move on to DeVry Medical International.
Last quarter I reported that our medical school graduates from American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine and Ross University School of Medicine earned more than 1 000 residency positions at hospitals in the United States and Canada.
For this quarter I'm very pleased to announce that in the most recent reporting period students at both AUC and Ross achieved 97% first-time pass rates and Step 1 of the United States Medical Licensure Exam.
And that's the USMLE.
That's a strong marker of quality and it's on par with the outcomes achieved by U.S.
medical students.
And at Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine we also continue to make investments to support academic quality.
During the quarter we launched 4 centers of research to support the university's mission to provide students with a research-based educational experience.
We're very proud of the cutting-edge research opportunities that we're able to provide to our students at Ross Vet.
At Carrington we delivered positive enrollment growth.
We exited the fiscal year profitable at the institution level.
We announced in June that Carrington College California received final approval from its institutional accreditor to add the campuses of Carrington College to existing -- its existing campus network.
And in July we announced we had obtained approval to change the name of the institution to Carrington College.
I know it's a little confusing but you don't have to worry about that anymore because it's one college Carrington College and bringing the 2 colleges together allows us to operate more efficiently.
It also provides more resources to support academic quality and it's better for our students.
Recently the CEO of the largest health care system in Idaho congratulated us on this achievement and he noted that it's a true differentiator.
I think it bears noting that in the current tough environment in the career college segment the fact that Carrington is growing and that it achieved this accreditation approval really sets us apart.
Carrington continues to play an important role in DeVry Group's overall strategy.
The current college segment is the largest segment of U.S.
post-secondary education.
Jobs requiring associate degrees are actually growing faster than jobs requiring a bachelor's degree.
And this segment faces little competitive threat from traditional colleges adding online programs.
And as much as we like this segment in and of itself we also like it as a feeder to DeVry Group's advanced degree programs in what we like to call a ladder of learning for students.
What do we mean by that? Well increasingly Carrington students are moving up the ladder to the bachelor's degree level at DeVry University and at Chamberlain.
Our diversification strategy is also paying off at our International and Professional Education segment.
Our reputation in Brazil is strong and growing.
We serve more than 33 000 students at our institutions.
We continue to experience strong enrollment as we invest in quality and infrastructure to support long-term growth.
We expanded geographically during the quarter with the acquisition of a small institution located in Joo Pessoa in the State of Paraba.
We'll offer degree programs in business administration accounting engineering and logistics technology.
We're very excited about the opportunities for us in Brazil to grow both organically and through our strong acquisition pipeline.
We believe we have a strong management team an excellent acquisition and integration playbook and reputation as the acquirer of choice in Northeast Brazil.
At Becker Professional Education revenues were up 5% in the quarter.
Taking a step back Becker has grown at a compound annual growth rate of nearly 12% for the last 10 years.
Nearly 90% of that growth was organic with the remainder coming from our acquisitions.
Becker now operates in 55 countries around the world.
It's core CPA test preparation market continues to grow modestly while it's newer offerings including ACCA CPE and USMLE exam review are experiencing solid growth.
Becker recently announced 6 new partnerships that expand its training platform to help students prepare for the ACCA exam around the world.
This builds upon Becker's leading position in India China and other countries that are large growth markets for CPA candidates.
So to summarize this second objective our diversification in higher growth career fields degree levels and geographies continues to position us for long-term growth.
This strategy has driven year-over-year revenue growth at all of our health care professional and international institutions and we expect the same in fiscal 2015.
I'll now turn the call over to Tim and Patrick to review the financials and enrollment results.
And I'll wrap up with a discussion of our longer-term outlook.
Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'll start with overall financial results then go through our reporting segments.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 revenues from continuing operations were $485 million up modestly over the prior year.
DeVry University revenues were down as expected with all other institutions growing their revenues in the fourth quarter.
Full year revenues from continuing operations totaled $1.9 billion down 2% from fiscal 2013.
For the year revenues at our growing institutions increased 17% to $842 million.
The increase was offset by a 13% decrease to $1 085 000 000 in revenues at our institutions in transition.
Excluding special items total costs from continuing operations for the quarter were $426 million down nearly 3% reflecting our reduction initiatives.
For the full year costs excluding special items totaled $1.7 billion down slightly from last year.
Full year costs at our institutions in transition decreased 9% to $1 067 000 000.
Full year costs at our growing institutions were $637 million an increase of 20% driven primarily by new programs in campuses and recent acquisitions in Brazil.
We reported net income of $37 million for the quarter and $134 million for the year.
This resulted in earnings per share of $0.58 for the quarter and $2.07 for the year.
Earnings per share from continuing operations and excluding special items were $0.73 for the quarter and $2.62 for the year.
Our effective income tax rate was 10.8% for the quarter and 15.4% for the year.
This lower rate is a reflection of the income tax benefit from our fourth quarter restructuring charge.
We expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for fiscal 2015 will be in the 17% to 18% range.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenues of $198 million were up almost 16% during the fourth quarter.
Segment revenues for the year were $769 million up 14% over prior year highlighted by strong enrollment growth at Ross AUC and Chamberlain.
Operating income excluding special charges for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter was $36 million an increase of 26% from the prior year.
For the year segment operating income grew 26% to $148 million exuding special items.
This was driven by solid growth in Chamberlain's post-licensure programs and a continued narrowing of operating losses at Carrington.
For the year this segment accounted for about 2/3 of DeVry Group's operating income excluding special items.
At DeVry Medical International new students in the May semester grew about 7% while total students grew just over 2%.
Chamberlain new student enrollments grew 38% in May and 61% in July over prior years.
Total students grew 36% in May and 39% in July.
These increases reflect strong demand for our pre-licensure BSN our post-licensure RN to BSN Family Nurse Practitioner and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree programs.
Carrington revenues grew nearly 5% during the quarter and 3% for the year.
As expected we exited the year with a profitable fourth quarter at the institution level.
New students in the period increased nearly 10% from the prior year and total students increased 3%.
We're very pleased to have achieved revenue growth in the current environment in the career college segment.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment.
Revenues increased 19% during the quarter driven by strong growth at DeVry Brasil.
For the year segment revenue increased 16%.
DeVry Brasil and Becker each reached a significant milestone crossing the $100 million revenue mark for the year.
At Becker revenue grew 5% and DeVry Brasil revenue grew 31% in the quarter.
Our DeVry Brasil a little more than half of the increase was driven by the recent acquisition of Facid and the balance of the increase came from solid organic growth at Unifavip and other institutions.
The DeVry Brasil continues to exceed our expectations and we anticipate solid growth from them in 2015.
For the quarter the segment's operating income was $21 million up 20% over the prior year excluding special items.
And finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenues were down 13% during the quarter as a result of lower enrollments.
These lower enrollments were partially offset by higher undergraduate revenue per student up about 1% in the fourth quarter as a result of an increase in average course load.
Segment revenues were down 15% for the full year.
New student enrollment continues to be choppy.
New undergraduate students were down about 5% in May and 13% in July versus the prior year.
Total undergraduate students were down 14% in May and 12% in July versus the prior year.
Total graduate course takers declined about 16% in May and 14% in July.
As we work to increase Keller brand awareness we're seeing initial signs that the graduate market may be improving.
Excluding special items the segment generated operating income of $3 million in the quarter and $31 million for the year compared to last year's operating loss of $900 000 for the quarter and operating income of $99 million for the year.
I'm pleased to report that our emphasis on cost control at DeVry University helped us achieve nearly $100 million of cost reductions in fiscal 2014.
As one example of this we accelerated our real estate optimization efforts.
In fiscal 2014 we closed 5 and reduced our square footage in additional 19 locations at DeVry University resulting in the reduction of nearly 183 000 square feet without exiting any markets.
In fiscal '15 we'll continue our focus on optimizing the real estate footprint.
Cost controls continue to be a focus across the DeVry Group with all of our institutions except DeVry University expected to grow revenues in fiscal '15.
Our cost reduction efforts are primarily focused at DeVry University.
Given new student enrollments haven't turned positive we know revenues will be down again in fiscal '15.
We remain committed to rightsizing and maintaining positive segment economics and therefore are targeting $70 million of additional cost savings for the BTM segment this fiscal year.
Looking ahead to the first quarter we expect all of our institutions to grow revenue except DeVry University which should lead to a modest increase in revenues over the previous year.
We anticipate that operating costs will also be up modestly for the quarter over the prior year driven by our growth institutions.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the year was $263 million and our cash balance was $358 million at June 30 as compared to $197 million last year.
DeVry Group continues to be an efficient user of our shareholders' capital.
Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2014 were $79 million which was primarily deployed within our medical and health care and international institutions to support academic quality and drive future growth.
For fiscal '15 we expect capital spending to be in the range of $100 million to $110 million with approximately 80% being deployed to our medical and health care and international institutions as we invest in new programs locations and infrastructure.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $133 million down about 5% from the prior year as a result of lower revenues at DeVry University.
For the year bad debt as a percentage of revenue was 2.7%.
During fiscal year 2014 we incurred nearly $33 million in pretax restructuring charges as a result of workforce reductions and real estate optimization made throughout the year.
We will continue our discipline of managing our expenses to align with our expectations.
Overall we enter fiscal 2015 in a strong financial position as the result of our ongoing cost control and cash management efforts.
At our health care and international institutions we will continue to invest for long-term growth via our diversification strategy and we'll look to growth markets like Brazil where we can build upon existing programs and services to meet unmet demand.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
As we start this new fiscal year it seems appropriate to discuss our vision strategy and goals for the future.
We're becoming increasingly confident that we're reaching an inflection point in our efforts to return to growth as we expect the revenue growth to be delivered in the fourth quarter to continue into the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
We're excited about the future of career-oriented education globally and here in the U.S.
You probably saw the recent New York Federal Reserve study which once again confirms what we all know that a college degree is a solid investment.
They calculated the return on investment for both associate and bachelor's degrees to be about 15% surpassing typical returns for stocks and bonds.
As we see the media cycle turn to more stories about how college is a good investment we hope to see increased confidence among prospective students as well.
Our long-term vision is to become the leading global provider of career-oriented educational services by excelling in 3 areas: health care education; business and technology education; and international and professional educational services.
We've fundamentally transformed DeVry Education Group.
We've made strong investments in health care education with the acquisitions of Chamberlain Ross University AUC and Carrington.
Likewise in international education our investments in Brazil and Becker are paying off with record revenues this quarter.
To give a visual picture of our transformation you can refer to Chart 2 in the press release.
And you see that in 2002 70% of our enrollments were in technology.
Today 20% are in technology 40% in business and 40% in health care programs which weren't a part of our organization back then.
Similarly we're more diverse from a degree level perspective and geographically as well.
On the past nearly all our revenues were generated in the United States.
Today almost 1/4 of our revenues are in markets outside the U.S.
This figure will continue to grow as we expand both organically and via targeted acquisitions abroad.
So what does our diversification mean for our financial results? We're targeting double-digit organic revenue growth within our Medical and Healthcare and our International and Professional Education segments over the next 3 to 5 years.
This should result in double-digit operating income growth and strong cash flow generation from these segments.
And while we're not planning for significant growth in our BTM segment we expect DeVry University will continue to generate solid cash flow.
Given our solid financial position and successful capital deployment and acquisition track record we expect to create additional value via a further diversification in health care international and professional education.
So to summarize we made good progress in the past year and we were accelerating our efforts to improve DeVry Group's overall performance.
We're turning around in transforming DeVry University by focusing on delivering quality academic programs and student service more efficiently.
We'll also continue to focus on investing in the expansion of our health care professional and international institutions given our strong cash flow and financial position.
Before we turn the call over to your questions I'd like to thank Darren Huston.
Darren recently stepped down from DeVry Group's board as he was recently promoted to be the CEO of Priceline so he's a pretty busy guy.
We wish him all the best and thank him for his service to DeVry Group.
And with that we're eager to hear your thoughts and questions.
Joan? Thank you.
So I'd like to ask our operator Laura to give our participants the instructions on how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question will come from Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First just wondering if you -- so just a quick question on have you seen any benefit or do you think you'll see any benefit from maybe some of the issues at some other sort of associate and certificates schools that are in the news? Has that happened yet? Or do you think that's to come? I wondered if you're hearing that from some of your admissions advisers? And then I've got one follow-up on programmatic changes.
Sure.
Thanks Paul.
I can understand that question and I think it's a good question.
And the answers at this point we really don't know.
I just don't see evidence or have data to back that up.
I think though it's not an unreasonable hypothesis over time that if capacity comes out of any endeavor that those that remain may have some opportunities and our focus is going to be just to continue to serve the students who we see and do the best job we can of doing that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on the programmatic changes at DVU.
Just wondering maybe the trends at IT versus business within DeVry undergrad.
And if you had your druthers would you have a little bit -- would you rather have a little bit more IT versus business? Yes excellent question and we look at that all the time.
I would say that right now in July we saw -- in the most recent couple of periods especially July business was a little bit stronger than technology.
A good example of that is our bachelor's in accounting which has actually grown 8% over the last 12 months.
That's a good example of this programmatic focus strategy in action because we've got the DeVry University undergraduate then the Keller graduate master's in accounting and the Becker review for the accounting exam all in one program.
And by bringing them together as a specialized program for students it can actually save them time and money toward becoming a CPA.
And that's an example of what we mean by programmatic focus.
Then the other part of your question you're right DeVry University has a very strong reputation in technology so that's a big opportunity for us.
If we can just do a better job of articulating that value proposition in technology programs and get their growth up to the level of the business programs that alone will be a nice opportunity for us and we're certainly focused on doing that.
Research Division</strong> If I could just ask one quick follow-up with Tim.
Tim could you help us just size the losses in Carrington this year so we know what's not going to repeat? Maybe round to nearest $5 million or $10 million if you can.
Sure.
Thank you for that rounding.
So $10 million would be the nearest number on a fully loaded basis.
We expect to significantly improve that next year.
Last year Paul the story was as you recall kind of low-single-digit revenue growth high-single-digit or mid- to high-single-digit cost reduction and that's how we were reducing the losses.
When we look into '15 it flips a little bit.
Now we're looking for kind of mid-single-digit revenue growth and low-single-digit costs.
So we're kind of changing the focus there and we expect to continue to improve the results slowly.
It's a tough space but we expect to see improvement.
On a fully loaded basis we expect still to have a small loss.
Could we be breakeven fully loaded? Possible it's a bit of a stretch but solid improvement in FY '15.
Research Division</strong> If I can sneak one more in Tim just on DVU.
If you look across all the campuses are there -- is -- if you got rid of 5 or 10 more would that dramatically improve the margin profile of BTM? Or is it more spread out? Is it the 20% creating the 80% of drag? Or how do you think about the campuses? Sure.
Well we have -- we've got a commitment here to maintain positive economics in the BTM segment and we know revenues will be down in '15 just given the new student numbers.
So we've got a tall order here.
We've committed the $70 million of cost reduction in that segment.
And certainly a continued focus on real estate is important.
We think the real estate is a competitive advantage for us.
It helps our students in terms of their learning outcomes.
So we're going to continue to be aggressive.
I think we mentioned that there were 24 locations that were impacted.
So I think it's a continued focus for us.
As we look at the margins for the BTM segment we still expect them to be positive fully loaded likely down in that low-single-digit area.
But we also like what's going on from the programmatic side and we think this is a period of really turning around and transforming the institution.
And the next question will come from Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> So following up on the BTM segment.
Is there anything you can point to specifically that might have been a driver behind the fact that the new student decline widened in July? And do you have any kind of early indications of the September new student number given that you're doing the Catalyst Scholarship again? Yes excellent questions.
I would say just stepping back and look at the enrollment trends and the outlook we continue to operate in a prolonged cyclical period of weakness that we think is having an impact across higher education.
Students lack confidence in the job market and are hesitant to make a commitment to go to college.
And while there's a hesitancy to go back to school we think consumer confidence may slowly be coming back.
We did see positive jobs report in the last week.
One thing I would point out is just I think a misperception on some people's part -- certainly not yours Corey but on some and I'll just give the opportunity to correct that -- that these factors only impact private sector institutions but many independent and public sector institutions are being impacted as well.
We saw University of Maryland University College struggling.
University of Akron is cutting 20 programs raising tuition to close a major budget deficit.
Even law schools applications are down 37% compared to 2010.
That just came up the other day.
Half the colleges in the country are down and total colleges -- college enrollments in total are down.
Community college enrollments are down 3 years in a row as inexpensive and taxpayer subsidized as they are.
So that's kind of the bad.
What we do -- we see some early signs that we may be reaching this inflection point that we mentioned.
Enrollment in MBA programs may be starting to see a tick up.
We know some peers reported better enrollments.
New course takers at Keller Graduate School of Management showed a sequential improvement in July.
You couldn't see that but we're excited to see what we can do for Keller students in September.
I would say we're optimistic about the future.
As I look forward there's a large untapped market of people who started but never finished college.
More than 31 million people enrolled in college during the last 2 decades but did not finish so that is -- that's a factor.
And of course we see opportunities in some of the higher growth areas and segments like nursing and medical.
So that's kind of a bigger backdrop.
And you asked about September and it's still early in the recruiting cycle.
I would say undergraduate we're not expecting a change in the current trend but again see a bit more strength at the graduate level.
So we're excited to see what we can do for Keller students in September.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So it's interesting.
So in the past it seemed like there was at least a correlation between the times you were offering the Career Catalyst Scholarship and improvement to the extent that you may not see that.
At this time how do you think about scholarshipping going forward? Well again I think that's an excellent question.
We are offering the Career Catalyst Scholarship for September and scholarships are really a part of our strategic pricing strategy.
It's got 2 goals: increasing new student and encouraging persistence.
And so that's one of the things I really like about the Career Catalyst Scholarship because it's got both an attractive $20 000 total value but it's administered $5 000 in the first year $7 000 in the second year $8 000 in the third year.
And further if somebody asked well what about the fourth year? Well you can get a 4-year degree in 3 years at DeVry University.
So it reemphasizes that value proposition with a speed to degree.
It could be that there are now more scholarship offers out there and it may be a little bit harder to get attention on an offer like that.
But we do have that out there.
The other thing that we've done is implemented what we call the DeVry University Fixed Tuition Promise and we're very proud of that.
So that's part of our promise to you the student is that your tuition is never going to go up while you maintain your enrollment at DeVry University.
So that gives people -- I think it helps to address concerns about affordability.
So those at some of the things that we're doing about pricing here in the near term.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then another follow-up on the cost side.
So you've done a really nice job managing the cost structure to the enrollment levels at DeVry University.
I'm not arguing you shouldn't do that but can you speak to how much of those cost savings may be coming from things like marketing admissions growth initiatives? And what I'm getting at is are we beginning to hit bone on that such that the cost cutting may be hurting the revenue side? No I don't think we're doing that.
It really is not hurting the academic quality and it's not hurting our ability to increase awareness of the university or you mentioned marketing getting our name out there enhancing our reputation.
We're getting more efficient in our marketing and recruiting expenditures.
So when we were doing that is we're finding sources of more qualified inquiries.
So we need fewer of them.
And therefore that's more efficient way to conduct the recruiting process and that's an example of being more efficient in the marketing and recruiting process.
So no I think we're being pretty disciplined there and certainly not chasing a new student beyond the point of incremental economics.
But on the other hand to your question I don't feel uncomfortable that we're endangering our ability on the other side.
Research Division</strong> And just one last clarification Daniel is when you say you're expecting double-digit operating income growth in Medical and Healthcare internationally are you talking about organically or are you including acquisitions in that? That's organic.
And I think Pat wanted to make a comment about the prior question as well.
So certainly comment on that one as well Pat.
Sure.
On the double-digit operating income growth that's organic and over our planning horizon.
And then back to your question on the source of our cost savings.
About 2/3 of that is coming from matching our staffing levels with our enrollments and the remaining 1/3 kind of think of it split between real estate optimization other centralization vendor negotiations.
And to your point on marketing within DeVry University our marketing expense was down just a little bit on a year-on-year basis about 4% lower in FY '14 versus FY '13.
So to Daniel's point still spending and focusing on that but becoming more efficient with that spend.
And our next question will come from Sara Gubins of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You talked about revenue per student for undergrad being up about 1% in the fourth quarter on an increase in average course load.
How should we think about that for 2015? Would it carry through? Or would some of the changes that you're making in the pricing structure suggest that we should see revenue per student down again? Sure Sara.
This is Pat.
Within DeVry University undergraduate based on the changes we are making in the pricing structure and being very strategic in our use of scholarships we would expect to see revenue per student on a full year basis down somewhere in that 1 to 2 percentage point range.
This upcoming first quarter maybe flat to slightly down and then picking up as we move through the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then with the $70 million in cost savings that you're expecting could you tell us about the kinds of charges that we should expect in fiscal '15? So the portion of the $70 million of cost savings we recorded the charge here in the fourth quarter and then we expect to see some charges as we move throughout the year.
We currently have a voluntary separation program that we're offering where we record a charge in the first quarter and then some other real estate charges as we move through '15.
Research Division</strong> Any sense of magnitude? Not at this point in time no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question if you could talk to us about retention trends particularly in undergraduate what you've been seeing.
Sure.
Persistence was up a little bit in July.
And persistence is a major part of the turnaround and transformation plans at DeVry University and a long-term focus for us at DeVry Education Group overall.
In some of the things that we're doing to improve persistence one element of the persistence improvement plan that comes to my mind is we've really improved the technology in the reporting to help identify and predict students who might be at risk of falling behind in their studies.
And so very rapidly even like on a daily basis alert our student support people our student success coaches and our faculty to go surround that student go help them out and see what can be done to help them persist.
So those are the kinds of very tactical very operational but incredibly important activities that we employ to support our students.
And by kicking that up I think we've set some goals to improve persistence.
And the next call -- or I'm sorry question will come from Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Tim I'm wondering if -- or Daniel the $70 million cost reduction at DVU that you're targeting is that by your estimates sufficient to hold the margins at DVU steady for the year? And I'm asking this in the context of wondering if there's more flexibility to step that up in the context of how the year seems to be starting on a fairly weak note from a start perspective.
Great question.
One of the reasons that we overachieved our cost savings in fiscal '14 is that we saw softer enrollment trends than we wanted.
So we're kind of -- we have a list or a very specific set of actions to drive the $70 million.
And if we do that we're likely going to see some degrading of the operating margin but maintaining positive.
It's hard to get 100 cents of the dollar recovery.
So the $70 million is a tall order.
But I think to an earlier question we're still of pretty good scale.
We just did over $900 million of revenue.
The institution has been this size before.
And so it's -- really the challenge is to try and maintain the high quality of education and resize ourselves for the current reality.
We feel very strongly that there's a segment of students in a curriculum that's targeted them that has a tremendous amount of value and we don't ever see that segment going away.
The point is how do we get right size to it? So if we see softer enrollments there are more things to do.
We're really just trying to chase and resize and transform the institution for that current reality.
Now Daniel mentioned technology is part of that class size is part of that centralization of services is part of that resizing the real estate is part of that.
So I think we will continue to chase that and maintain that positive cash flow and economics in that segment as best we can and we think we can do that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
The -- and then on an unrelated topic.
The momentum at Chamberlain that's obviously been really impressive.
I'm just wondering how you think about sustainable enrollment growth within that unit over the next year or the next couple of years.
Sure.
We think there's a lot of opportunity to continue to grow in the world of nursing.
Remember that we're focused at Chamberlain at the bachelor's master's and doctoral level.
That's really our sweet spot.
And that's where we see the most growth in the world of nursing.
There continues to be growth at the pre-baccalaureate level too.
But we think the biggest over the long term is there.
And those percentages obviously will come down in a lot of large numbers.
Some of that is driven by the master's and doctoral programs which are fairly new and so they're growing at very large percentages but off of fairly small bases.
So yes we would see that coming down but continued growth at Chamberlain is our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Could you put any finer quantification around that Daniel? Not at this point.
But let us keep working on that and get back to you Peter as we go along here and keep you posted.
Research Division</strong> How about in terms of new campuses? How significant are they the step-up in the pace of campus openings? I assume they're fairly small in year 1.
Yes they're fairly small in year 1.
We have some kind of color on the breakeven that we've done before so you guys may want to jump in on that.
But they're -- but just from a size perspective I would just say that 4 on a base of 13 is reasonably significant.
And it was very significant from the perspective of its more than anybody else in the country that's been able to do and get approved.
And the driver of that is by demonstrating the quality of the outcomes and the quality of resources we provide to those students.
So we're just super proud of Chamberlain and the ability to get as approvals.
In terms of that kind of breakeven rough we'll let Pat give -- maybe comment on that.
Yes Peter it takes about 18 months to 2 years for a campus to breakeven.
And of course a 4-year program most do take that on an accelerated basis.
So by the year 3 we consider that to be that campus starting to mature and then starting to contribute to the bottom line.
And the next question comes from Timo Connor of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I'll follow up on the Chamberlain campus progression.
So...
Yes Timo that's probably the best pronunciation of your name we've heard and maybe ever.
Research Division</strong> Goes with the territory.
So the Chamberlain campus progression you didn't open any in '14.
I believe it was 13 in '13 was that campaign.
So the I would assume that the campuses open in fiscal '12 and '13 were just now starting to be ramping toward profitability.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes I think that's about the right way to think about it.
The only thing I'll add is that we had 2 major expansions this year that were kind of the size of smaller campuses so -- in the existing locations.
That's an excellent point.
Atlanta and Chicago basically doubled in capacity so Tim it's an excellent point.
It's also like it really is effectively and more efficiently like 2 new campuses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Longer term do you still expect margin expansion in Chamberlain? Obviously the top line growth is very impressive right now and that's just going to -- the income is going to come along with that.
But is there still opportunity to expand margins over time? You know what no I think it's a short answer.
I think what we're thinking about here is we're investing at a rate where we're trying to maintain the margins and continue to grow the campuses.
Over time what we expect to see is the campuses would become a larger proportion of the mix and their contribution margin is not quite as high as the online programs.
There's obviously a different cost of delivering.
So what we see is continuing to grow gross margin dollars continuing to grow number of students served continuing to grow these campuses which we think are -- were very good at getting through the approvals and establishing those.
And we really like what we're doing in terms of helping serve the health care -- them the health care needs.
So I think continuing to grow the revenues growing the dollars but I don't see a lot of margin expansion.
Margin percentage.
Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
And then the -- are you seeing any kind of snowballing impact in terms of rematriculation from Carrington to Chamberlain people coming back to a DeVry campus to get another degree or advance their career? Yes.
Thanks for that.
We call that the ladder of learning and I mentioned that earlier.
That is something that I would say -- and I take this on myself we did not do a good enough job of that in the first few years of Carrington joining the family here at DeVry Education Group.
Unlike what we did with DeVry University undergraduate to Keller we've done an incredible job there.
There's a really nice pathway.
Or DeVry to Keller to Becker we've done it there.
And so we see a real opportunity to improve that.
We've put a team on it and more resources.
And we're starting to gain a little bit more traction of Carrington students going on to either -- the nursing students at Carrington going onto Chamberlain and other students going onto some like the health care administration bachelors at DeVry University.
And there's other opportunities like that across DeVry Education Group such as an M.D.
M.B.A.
across medical schools in Keller and I think that that school's working on some opportunities as well.
So we really think that that's a nice opportunity for us so appreciate the question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one for me.
Brazil is over $100 million in revenue and that's been very successful both on acquisitive growth and then also organic growth.
So I guess looking back on it how successful have you viewed the international expansion? And then how could you apply that to new geographies? Looking back I'd say it's been very successful.
5 acquisitions in 5 years and organic growth on top of each one of them.
Each acquisition integration by the way more successful and more productive than the last.
We just continue to learn from that and have what I call an acquisition playbook that allows the most recent one Facid the medical school in Teresina about a year ago was I mean just fully integrated systems processes people branding everything within about 5 months while beating the initial plan.
Very very impressive.
So we continue to see more opportunities to continue that in Brazil across various areas of higher education there.
Research Division</strong> And then new geographies? New geographies yes.
I would say other parts of Latin America and then over in Asia would be the places for that similar kind of running of private universities.
And then remember we're in 55 countries with other forms of higher education such as corporate training and exam review at Becker Professional Education.
So there's multiple ways to participate in the growth of career-oriented education.
We tend to first think about the DeVry University or Chamberlain College of Nursing or DeVry Brasil.
But don't forget about some of the nondegree opportunities corporate training exam review professional education.
Those are very attractive as well globally.
And that's the right way to think about those operations.
The definition of those is definitely global.
And with the footprint that we have now with Becker and the management team we have there we feel very comfortable in continuing to grow that on a global basis.
And the next question is from Trace Urdan of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I kind of -- I wanted to go back to Tim some comments you made because I'm having trouble sort of squaring up some of your assertions.
I mean when you talk about rightsizing the BTM business what do you have in mind there? Because I mean that seems inconsistent with your statement that you're determined to maintain positive margins in the BTM segment.
I mean if -- the statements that you were making about this business has been the size before and we want to get the margins back to where they are that -- to me that would suggest cost cuts well in excess of $70 million.
So it seems like you're anticipating at least at some point that you will grow back to some bigger size than where you're at today.
Can you comment on that? Well okay sure.
Yes.
And what I meant to say -- I think the question I was trying to respond to with that was can you -- is there more cuts that you can make? Are you not going to go negative? Yes I think we're long way from getting back to the margins that we've experienced in the past because those come in many cases with rightsized and good efficient utilization of capacity and frequently growth.
So I think what our objective with the BTM segment in the near term is to be a bit more aggressive with scholarships while we work on the programmatic focus where we think that will help us stabilize enrollments and attract the kinds of students that need the high level of service that we provide or benefit from it.
We think that we can get the BTM segment to a point where it's an efficient user of capital and solid cash flow generator.
At the moment I don't see significant growth form but that may change as we look for white spaces and do some of the programmatic stuff.
So I don't know if that's helpful.
I think right now our focus is really around we know it takes 18 to 24 months from the time we get to new student growth to get the total student growth.
So really our objective in the near term is maintaining positive segment economics and that's a big enough challenge.
And then once we get there then we think we can get modest growth starts producing positive operating leverage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean I guess that's a little bit more context for the statement about rightsizing.
You're not really talking about rightsizing on the current level of revenue you're just -- you're talking about kind of keeping it positive for now and sort of maintaining positive cash flow towards a time when you can return to positive leverage.
Yes.
One of the things as we look at rightsizing some of it's a function of lease commitments.
It's a function of students and where they are in their programs.
But we really think that the programmatic focus is the way -- that's the part of the story that's transformational.
We think we can be more efficient Daniel mentioned that using technology.
So but the near-term challenge is is as revenues fall it's really hard to support the students and get 100 cents of every dollar out.
We're more -- we're going to more aggressive next year or this year now.
But yes you're right the near-term focus is letting those -- the programmatic focus work and stabilize enrollments and then figure out kind of where we are and what our next steps are.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And thank you for that because that actually segues really nicely to my next question which was you had expressed a lot of enthusiasm for the programmatic focus and I think that you even mentioned maybe some of the changes that are taking place.
But it's not clear to me yet.
That seems to be describing a lot of stuff that we can't really see right now and I'm wondering if you can maybe help to paint a picture of what we can look forward to in terms of the effect that that's going to have on the business and kind of what kind of time frame we're looking for.
Are we just talking about being able to turn the starts around? Or is there more to it than that? No that's the key is to get back to growth in each program.
And what programmatic focus means is taking a look -- we've done a very good job of managing the university and messaging the university at the university level.
We need to apply that same prowess to each and every program to make sure that we're not only tailoring the program to the needs of those students and the employers of those students but then messaging that effectively to those students and to those employers.
And a good example of that is accounting.
I mentioned earlier by packaging that up and having under one roof the bachelors the masters and the exam review you create that program and bringing that focus and that's what we started was with accounting putting that focus and then letting people know that DeVry University is one of the biggest accounting colleges in the country a lot of people don't know that.
So we didn't do a good enough job before that of letting people even know that we -- people didn't even know we had accounting.
Well putting that programmatic work together and then messaging and letting people know about it that's programmatic focus.
And it's different for different programs.
And the way you go to market the way you -- the different media you use or for health care-related programs you go out to the hospitals whereas electronics programs you go into HP and Cisco and Intel Motorola.
So it's got to be different for every program.
And so that's an area that we're investing in and actually increasing resources so that we can drive growth in each one of those programs and make sure -- Tim used the word white space are we doing -- there were some white spaces where there's some programs that we should add.
A good example of that could be cyber security.
There's a huge need and growing need as the Russians are now stealing 1 billion e-mail addresses.
Cyber security is huge.
We've got like 5 different offerings in cyber security but we can do a better job of filling in -- there's a few white spaces in some of the offerings and then again messaging it.
So it's both the what it is and then it's how you message it that we recognize we could do a better job of and that's why we're investing in this programmatic focus.
And yes the point is it's not cost cutting it's drive growth.
And as Tim mentioned it takes a little bit -- it's going to take a little while for that really kick in.
So in the near term it's more of that the 2/3 1/3 of the cost reduction efforts that Pat talked it's the pricing and scholarship that Tim talked about and then -- and that's the bridge to get to the impact of the programmatic focus.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are there program leaders that are running P&amp;L at this point for 2015? Yes yes exactly.
So there's leaders leading teams cross-functional teams of folks from academics from marketing from student services and operations and so forth.
And then there's a leader of each one of those programmatic areas.
And they're in place -- there's some filling in of the teams still to be done and we're in the middle of rolling that out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And might we then begin to start from the outside begin to see some of that different messaging and so forth kind of rolling out into the market during the course of the year? Absolutely yes.
And our next question comes from Jeff Meuler of Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just I think a follow-up on that last one.
But I just want to ask philosophically why is the strategy to just roughly maintain breakeven or positive free cash flow at the BTM segment? And I ask that from some of the things you've said but in July the starts were down 13% year-over-year and it doesn't sound like you're optimistic for too much better in September.
And then Tim said there's going to been an 18- to 24-month lag once that returns to positive growth until you get back to growth.
So I mean it seems like it's going to be a while best case scenario before you get back to growth.
And it's been declining for I don't know 4 years in a row now pretty substantial every year.
So why not just take more aggressive action now and not assume that you're going to get back to growth mode to get it to a reasonable operating margin and then if growth comes you get leverage off of that? Well the strategy is not to maintain.
The strategy is to get back to growth.
What we're just saying is that in the near term we're making that commitment to do what we can to keep in positive territory.
And I think we've certainly been very aggressive over the last couple of years.
It's been a couple hundred million dollars of cost restructuring and we're going to continue to do that.
I think Tim's point was that $70 million that's the plan but there's more that we can do and that we will do if it turns out that we need to exactly as we did in FY '14 where there was an initial plan and then we over delivered on that plan because we had to.
So that's the way that we look at it here in the near term while we work the strategy which is to return ourselves to growth at DeVry University.
I just -- I would add that one of the big challenges we have is supporting all the students that we currently have at the institution.
So this is where -- we just can't get the cost out as fast as we'd like.
And to Daniel's point we do see a stabilization and return to growth and so how do you do all these things and not damage of the quality of what we're trying to do and supporting the students.
Right.
If you were to -- sometimes if you reduce the resources too much you could actually hurt your persistence at your referrals.
You could actually do more damage to the growth side of it.
So it's a balance and that's how we see striking the balance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then there's a lot of talk about the environment.
You talked about the environment and confidence of prospective students and maybe I'm one of the people like you were telling Corey that's confused.
But Daniel I thought it interesting given how big of divergence there is between the BTM trends and the health care trends over a multiyear basis.
So maybe if you could just help us think about the differences in the environment and what's temporary what's structural between the IT and business world and the medical and health care world? It's very interesting because here you have Chamberlain College of Nursing in the same markets in the same city in the same physical campus.
They're collocated in most of those 13 campuses.
And quite a divergence as you pointed out.
We think it's that a it's a perhaps a perception among those prospective nursing students that a clearer path from that investment to the return because people know that there's tons of nursing jobs out there a huge shortage and mid-50s starting salaries.
Plus coupled with just that passion to be a nurse that exists there.
And you have that in veterinary school and in medical school and some other programs.
And it's very interesting.
As you look segment-by-segment I mean we did see some of the automotive educators reporting just recently.
Very very weak.
And boy they do such a great job over there.
I mean they're premier educators of automotive mechanics who do a wonderful job.
And you wonder why is that down? But again I think it's the prospective students in that segment.
Contrary to the fact which is on the back end they all get jobs they're just having a hard time seeing that.
And it's something that many of the folks in this call might have a hard time seeing because this is a haves and a haves not economy to quote Arthur Brooks at AEI the economist.
The haves economy is growing 5% or 6% he estimates.
The haves not economy is growing at 0 at best.
And so that grinding last few years of the economy has really weighed on that confidence.
And so people are saying contrary to the facts and what the Federal Reserve study just showed again that the return on going to college return on investment is very very strong.
Their personal experience might be well gosh a friend of mine went to college and he didn't get a job so I am hesitant.
And also we've had a new cycle over the last couple of years saying "Oh boy college isn't worth it anymore." Well we're starting to see new cycle shift a little bit.
That was just one example of the story.
I mentioned I saw it on CNN just the other day a whole segment on college is worth it.
And so think -- we think that as you start to see that new cycle change and you start to see it go to can't find programmers can't find accountants can't find nurses that hopefully people will see more confidence.
And then we'll see some of that pent-up demand that we believe has been building here start to be released.
And certainly that would be a helpful trend.
And our next question will come from Jeff Silber of BMO Capital Markets.
I know it's late I'll try to be quick.
Just going back to the cost cutting in the BTM segment.
Can you give us a run rate of how that kicks in over the course of this year? And is it safe to assume that without that the unit would not have been profitable in the current year? Yes absolutely.
The latter is true.
Patrick any thoughts on the run rate? The run rate the restructuring charges that we recorded in the fourth quarter results a lot of folks who left the organization prior or just at the start of the fiscal year and then as I stated we have some more people who will be taking a voluntary separation plan.
So it will pick up in the balance of the quarters but it will be fairly even throughout the year.
Okay great.
Just then just a quick follow-up.
I know this is going to be in the K but can you give us some color how your financial responsibility ratio look for fiscal year 2014? Yes.
So with respect to financial responsibility ratio we're well above the minimum threshold and well above 1.5.
As you know the score maxes out at 3 and we're very close to maxing out.
And just back to BTM one thing we did want to clarify that as we said we expect on a fully allocated basis that the segment to be profitable on a full year basis.
Similar to last year we did have a loss in Q1.
We could be very close to breakeven or have a loss in Q1 of this year but again profitable on a full year basis.
Okay.
I think we're going to have to close.
So Laura if you could -- I guess we're going to wrap it up here.
Dan do you have some closing statements? Yes.
I'm sorry we've just run out of time.
I apologize if we were too long-winded in our answers.
But I do want to thank everybody for your questions and remind everyone that our next quarterly results call will be on October 23 and that will be our first quarter results of fiscal '15.
Thanks everybody for your continued support of DeVry Education Group.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the DeVry Education Group Fiscal 2015 First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joan Walter Senior Director of Investor and Media Relations.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry Education Group's leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Vice President of Finance.
I'd also like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements with respect to the future performance and financial condition of DeVry Education Group that involve risks and uncertainties.
Various factors could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied.
These factors are discussed under Risk Factors in our Form 10-K for fiscal year 2014 filed with the SEC which is available on our website at www.devryeducationgroup.com.
DeVry Group disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Additionally during the call we may refer to non-GAAP financial measures which are intended to supplement but not substitute for our most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our press release which contains the financial and other quantitative information to be discussed today as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is also available on our website.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until November 14.
To access the replays please refer to today's release.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Well thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
DeVry Education Group's strategy of quality plus diversification plus long-term focus differentiates us and positions us well for growth opportunities.
For DeVry Group as a whole we have growth in both new and total students.
DeVry Group revenues increased for the second consecutive quarter and except for DeVry University we grew revenue in all of our institutions.
Our strategy has 2 overarching objectives: to turnaround and transform DeVry University and to continue our growth via diversification.
So let me provide an update on our progress toward these objectives.
Despite the declines in new student enrollment in the September session we made progress in our longer-term goal of turning around and transforming DeVry University.
The turnaround plan starts with our enhanced programmatic focus.
We've been asked to describe our programmatic focus strategy and how it's different from what we've done in the past.
We believe students are attracted to institutions with differentiated programs supported by a strong university brand.
In prior years we addressed unmet demand as we managed at the university level growing by adding new programs and campuses and increasing online enrollments.
That was right for the time and we built a strong and well-recognized brand for DeVry University.
Now we need to manage much more at the program level ensuring each program is designed to best meet the needs of its students and employers and that we better communicate the value proposition of each program.
We're building the teams to support this programmatic focus.
We've narrowed our programmatic verticals to 3 namely Business and Management Engineering and Information Sciences and Emerging Programs.
Each vertical will have a focused team that's responsible for enrollment market research program features and quality and successful student outcome.
A good example of this approach is accounting and an offering we've put together called DKB.
That's DeVry University Keller Becker.
Students can get an undergraduate degree in accounting at DeVry University and then they move on to Keller for a Masters Degree because they need 150 hours now to sit for a CPA.
And then they also get the Becker CPA review with dual credit in many of the courses.
And this saves them about $10 000 in tuition and they can complete the program 2 years faster than traditional accounting programs.
The programmatic focus strategy will take time to implement fully and although we've made progress there's much more work to be done.
In the meantime we'll work to improve our results by enhancing our marketing and recruiting efforts optimizing pricing and reducing our cost structure.
The key element of pricing optimization is the strategic use of scholarships to enhance the value proposition that we provide to our students.
Our scholarships have 2 objectives: attracting new students and improving student persistence.
We were disappointed in the performance of the Career Catalyst Scholarship in the September session so we're adjusting our scholarship strategy.
One example is a new Degree Completer Scholarship we'll be offering in January to students who have prior college credits.
There are more than 31 million students who have enrolled in college and left without receiving a degree or certificate.
We believe DeVry University's focused degree completer programs along with a pricing strategy that meets their needs will encourage them to pursue their goal of finishing their education.
Taken together we believe our efforts to improve our enrollments are starting to have an impact.
While it's still down November looks better than September.
And though it's early January looks better than that.
And as you know we're reducing our cost structure while striving to maintain and even enhance our service to students.
We'll continue to work hard to control costs throughout the year and Tim will provide more color on this in a few minutes.
I'm seeing Rob Paul and his leadership team at DeVry University operate with a strong sense of urgency.
One thing that gives me confidence in our plan is that they were the key architects of Carrington's turnaround plan and Carrington has made tremendous strides.
While there are some differences between the 2 plans there are a lot of similarities as well.
The team understands what DeVry University needs right now.
The DeVry Group's second overarching objective is to continue our growth by diversification in our healthcare international and professional institutions.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we delivered strong enrollment growth this quarter particularly in our Masters and Doctoral programs where there continues to be strong demand.
One important driver of growth for Chamberlain is our employer partnerships.
Now last quarter we reported that DeVry University has 400 employer partners.
Not to be outdone Chamberlain provides opportunities for further education to the employees of some of the largest most prominent organizations in healthcare including Kaiser Permanente the Cleveland Clinic Walgreens and United Healthcare.
Chamberlain works with more than 350 partners which is helping to drive growth that we're seeing right now.
We're also continuing to expand the number of Chamberlain campuses.
Chamberlain's second location in Houston opened in September and we just began taking applications for Las Vegas and Troy Michigan for classes that begin in January.
With the addition of these 3 campuses Chamberlain has 16 locations across the country and there could be one more yet in fiscal 2015.
We continue to work a pipeline of potential markets across the country that we're evaluating for the coming years.
Chamberlain also continues to exemplify our commitment to academic quality.
Chamberlain's President Susan Groenwald was recently inducted as a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing.
For those of you who know the world of nursing induction into the Academy is evidence that the individual has made outstanding contributions to nursing and healthcare and that they have the potential to make a continuing positive impact.
I attended the induction ceremony in Washington D.C.
last Saturday night and I can report to you that it was an inspirational experience.
First of all it's like the Oscars of nursing.
And as they crossed the stage and extolled the accomplishments of each fellow each one seemed more incredible than the last.
I have to say we're very lucky to have someone with the stature of Dr.
Groenwald to lead Chamberlain.
Let me move on to DeVry Medical International where we continue to enhance academic quality at our medical schools.
We recently entered into multiple large affiliation agreements that allow our students to complete the clinical portion of their program at quality teaching locations across the United States.
The expansion of our clinical network gives students more options and improves the learning environment.
At Carrington we grew revenues in the quarter and we were profitable at the institution level.
The consolidation under one Carrington College institution is progressing well as we've begun to merge and standardize programs across our network of 17 campuses.
During the quarter Carrington began working with the recently closed Anthem College to accept transfer students in several healthcare programs.
Carrington has established an agreement with Anthem Education in multiple markets assisting student transfers in Arizona California Nevada and Oregon.
We anticipate that approximately 120 students will transfer and I really want to commend our team because they really stepped up to support these students and work closely with public officials and regulatory bodies in those states.
We're pleased to help these students complete their college education.
We believe our scale gives us an advantage in the career college segment.
Our diversification strategy is also paying off at our International and Professional Education segment.
Becker Professional Education was recently awarded 3-year accreditation from the Accrediting Council for Continuing Education and Training or ACCET.
This enables Becker to expand its CPA CPE USMLE and project management prep courses with additional organizations that value ACCET status including government agencies and Armed Forces as well as international students.
Becker's membership in this organization reaffirms the quality of our programs.
Moving onto DeVry Brasil.
Recently a fellow shareholder suggested we spend time each quarter to feature a particular institution in order to promote greater understanding of our diversified organization.
We think that's a great idea.
So today I'm going to spend some time discussing our institutions in Brazil and why we like the market.
And later Tim will provide some color on our financial performance there.
DeVry Brasil serves more than 36 000 students.
About 1/3 of our enrollments are in technology and engineering another 25% of enrollments are in healthcare then the balance is in business law and a few other programs.
Chart 2 in today's press release contains a map of our locations in Brazil.
And you can see there that we've had great success in diversifying across the North and Northeast regions of the country.
During the quarter we expanded geographically with the acquisition of Faculdade Martha Falco or FMF in Manaus.
At our Fanor Institution which is #5 on the map in Fortaleza we received approval from the Ministry of Education to offer several new distance learning degree programs.
These include industrial engineering business administration and IT management.
Also during the quarter we received final approval for our new campus in San Luis.
As a reminder this one is an organic campus expansion.
We anticipate our first class in February.
We're also on track to start classes in February at our recent acquisition in Joo Pessoa.
We're very excited about the opportunities that exist for us in Brazil to grow both organically and through our solid acquisition pipeline.
We have a strong management team an excellent acquisition and integration playbook and a reputation as the acquirer of choice especially in Northeast Brazil.
And so what makes Brazil an attractive market? The first is Brazil's large and growing population and it's growing college participation rate.
Enrollment at post secondary institutions in Brazil totaled 7 million students as of 2012.
That's approximately 15% of the addressable population of 18- to 24-year-old.
To give you some context the comparable rate in the United States is 41% versus 15% in Brazil.
So you can see the difference there.
Brazil has outlined a goal of increasing the participation rate of post secondary enrollment to 12 million students by 2020.
So all of this means strong demand especially from the growing middle class.
Second the return on educational investment for a college degree in Brazil is one of the highest in the world.
Those with a college degree earn substantially more than those without one 171% more.
Again this is a factor which drives demand for higher education.
Then the third factor is a regulatory environment that supports private sector education along with public sector and independent colleges and universities.
In Brazil they have one set of rule for all colleges something we advocate for the United States to implement.
As part of this system the government in Brazil has enhanced its student financial aid system which provides more access to higher education for students from lower and middle-income families.
So for all these reasons we believe Brazil is a very attractive market for growth.
DeVry Group has built a high-quality differentiated platform in Brazil which is contributing nicely to our growth and our economics.
So to summarize this second strategic objective our diversification in higher growth career fields degree levels and geographies continues to position us for long-term growth.
The strategy drove year-over-year revenue growth at all of our healthcare professional and international institutions this quarter.
So let me now turn the call over to Tim and Patrick to review the financials and enrollment results.
Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'll start with the financial results and then go to our reporting segments.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2015 revenues from continuing operations were $462 million up 2.5% year-over-year.
This is the second consecutive quarter of revenue growth for DeVry Group.
DeVry University revenues were down as expected with all other institutions growing their revenues in the first quarter.
We continued our cost reduction efforts during the quarter resulting in the recording of a $13.3 million restructuring charge related to a voluntary separation program and real estate optimization primarily at DeVry University.
Excluding special items total costs from continuing operations for the quarter were $424.1 million down 1.6% reflecting these ongoing initiatives.
We reported net income of $20.4 million for the quarter resulting in earnings per share of $0.31.
Earnings per share from continuing operations and exuding special items were $0.47 for the quarter.
Our effective income tax rate was 17.1% for the quarter and we expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for the year will be in the 17% to 18% range.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenues of $206 million were up 17% during the first quarter highlighted by revenue growth at DMI Chamberlain and Carrington.
Segment costs grew at 11% versus the prior year.
And as a result operating income for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter was $38 million excluding special items an increase of 52% from the prior year.
This increase was driven by the revenue growth and controlling cost growth.
At DeVry Medical International new students in the September semester declined 3.6% and total students declined 0.8%.
Since last year we made progress in enrollment management including increasing the number of inquiries we receive in this increasingly competitive market.
We expect better enrollment results in the January semester and we're still targeting long-term enrollment growth in the low-single digit range.
Chamberlain new student enrollment grew 14% in September over the prior year period.
Total students grew 33%.
These increases reflect strong demand for our pre-licensure BSN our post-licensure RN to BSN Family Nurse Practitioner and Doctor of Nursing Practice agrees.
As expected Carrington was profitable in the quarter at the institutional level.
New students in the period decreased 4% from the prior year and total students decreased 0.9%.
The decline is related to the timing of our start dates resulting in one less session start in the quarter.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment.
Revenues in the segment increased 22% during the quarter driven by strong growth at DeVry Brazil and Becker Professional Education.
Total student enrollment in DeVry Brasil grew 15% while new student enrollment increased 38% over the prior year.
In addition to these student enrollments DeVry Brasil enrolled nearly 2 400 students in Pronatec a federal government-sponsored certificate program that aims to increase the number of technical and vocational students in Brazil.
We saw an organic growth at Unifavip and our other institution drove results the quarter.
Because acquisitions have played a key part of the successful Brazil story we'd like to give a little color on our acquisition track record in Brazil and why we're confident in our ability to continue to drive growth via acquisition.
Since the initial acquisition in 2009 we've acquired 5 additional institutions and today we operate 15 campuses.
We've dealt -- developed a very solid acquisition integration playbook and each one has been executed better than the last.
The result is all of our acquisitions are performing either at or better than our acquisition plans.
The compound annual revenue growth rate from 2010 to 2014 was in the mid-30% range and the IRR is well in excess of our cost of capital.
Last year DeVry Brasil produced revenues of approximately $125 million and we expect revenues to be more than $150 million this year.
At Becker revenue grew 18%.
The increase was driven by the September launch of Becker One.
Becker One is our new curriculum delivery system that allows Becker students to receive content updates on a continuous basis versus once a year.
That annual update normally occurred in November.
Because of the earlier launch revenue increased about $4.5 million in the first quarter and likewise we expect revenues to decline about $4.5 million in the second quarter versus prior year.
For the quarter the segment's operating income was nearly $5 million versus $372 000 earned in the prior year.
And finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenues were down 12% during the quarter as a result of lower enrollments.
New undergraduate students for September were down 20% versus the prior year.
Total undergraduate student enrollments were down 15% versus the prior year and total graduate course takers declined about 13%.
We continue to operate in a highly challenging environment with some students choosing to defer their college decision despite the data that indicates college leads to a better career path.
As we turn around and transform DeVry University which is a process that's going to take some time we will continue to control the things we can.
Namely optimizing our pricing structure enhancing our marketing to convey our value proposition and controlling cost.
Exuding special items the segment generated operating income of $135 000 for the quarter which compares favorably to the $5 million loss we experienced in the prior year.
A key operational goal continues to be maintaining positive segment economics which means positive segment margin and cash flow.
Our emphasis on cost control across the organization but mainly at DeVry University helped us achieve our cost reduction goals for the quarter.
During the quarter we continued to focus on optimizing the real estate footprint identifying 9 future end-market campus consolidations pending regulatory approvals.
We've increased our savings goal for the year from $70 million to at least $90 million as a result of the disappointing enrollment results at DeVry University.
Looking ahead to the second quarter we expect revenue will be down modestly versus prior year as anticipated declines at DeVry University and the impact of Becker One will slightly outpace revenue growth at our other institutions.
We are planning modestly lower operating costs in the second quarter to offset the impact of the revenue decline.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Well thank you Tim and good afternoon everyone.
Our liquidity and financial position remain solid.
It differentiates us from others in private sector education in the U.S.
Our cash flow from operations for the quarter was $141 million.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $473 million at September 30.
Now that was up $164 million from $309 million last year.
DeVry group continues to be an efficient user of our shareholders' capital.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $21 million which were primarily deployed to our medical and healthcare and international institutions to drive future growth.
For the year we expect capital spending to be in the range of $100 million to $110 million with approximately 80% being deployed to our healthcare and our international institutions as we invest in new programs locations and infrastructure.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $170 million down 7% from the prior year as a result of lower revenues at DeVry University.
For the quarter bad debt as a percentage of revenue was 2.6%.
During the quarter we incurred $13.3 million in pretax restructuring charges as a result of workforce reductions and real estate optimization programs.
We will continue our discipline of managing our expenses in line with enrollment expectations.
Lastly we resumed and extended our share repurchase program to December 31 2015 with the goal of offsetting dilution.
As a reminder this is our eighth program which has $77.2 million remaining as of September 30.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thank you Pat.
We're committed to our long-term vision of becoming the leading global provider of career-oriented educational services.
DeVry Education Group's strategy of quality plus diversification plus long-term focus will enable us to achieve this vision.
While I'm not happy with where we are at DeVry University.
I do see progress on our turnaround and transformation plan with the team working incredibly hard on better delivering quality academic outcomes and student service more efficiently.
We're also focused on investing in the expansion of our healthcare professional and international institutions given our strong cash flow and financial position.
Before we take your questions I'd like to take a moment to congratulate the DeVry University Advantage Academy on their 10th anniversary.
Some of you may know that the Advantage Academy is a dual enrollment dual degree partnership with Chicago Public Schools that we developed with the former head of CPS Arne Duncan.
High school juniors and seniors have the opportunity to earn a college associate degree while also completing their high school at no cost to them or their families.
Since its inception almost 1 000 students have graduated in the program.
And according to the Illinois Board of Higher Ed Advantage Academy's 2012-2013 high school graduation rate was 99% and the cumulative associate degree completion rate is 86%.
That's quite an accomplishment and we're proud to be able to help these students achieve their educational goals.
So with that we're very eager to hear your thoughts and your questions.
Joan? Thanks.
I'd like to ask Laura if you could please give our participants the instructions for asking a question.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Trace Urdan of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a couple of questions.
The first about the program leaders within DVU and this initiative.
I'm wondering kind of how far that goes at this point? Are the program leaders inside DVU operating with their own P&amp;Ls? And if they are are they making kind of different decisions about pricing and marketing and are they putting in kind of budget requests for more capital to do different things than what had been going on before? Can you talk about that a little bit? Absolutely Trace.
It's great question.
It's really a shift from managing at the institutional level to managing much more at the program level.
Yes they do have P&amp;Ls.
We're doing a better job with our systems of tracking the economics at the programmatic level and that's something that's new and different.
We didn't have that before.
Yes they are making recommendations for deployment of capital or other resources.
I don't think it's going to be a very capital intensive endeavor.
It's much more about human capital and just getting closer to our students and our employers at the program by program level.
Maybe just a quick example would be in EIS Electronics and Information Systems one of the things that's come out of the early programmatic research is just the importance of certificates.
So you think about Cisco and the Cisco certification that you might get out of a networking program.
We have to do a much better job of encouraging our students to take those certifications.
We've got the goods we're actually -- I just met with John Chambers actually.
He was in town and we had a breakfast meeting and before I could even sit down he said "You guys have 300 alumni working for us and we want to talk about how we can get some more." And one of the other things we talked about is the network academies it turns out that we have the largest network academy of any college and university the Cisco Academy.
And in fact after the military we are the largest academy.
So that's something that is kind of like the best kept secret and we have to do a better job of making that known.
And that's -- again that's part of programmatic marketing is marketing -- strategic marketing what the needs are honing the program itself and then communicating the value of that to the students in the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I also wondered if you might elaborate a little bit I know that you see healthcare as a real market of opportunity for you.
And I'm wondering if there are other healthcare offerings that you don't have in the marketplace now that you would like to have? And then I wondered maybe related to that Daniel if you could comment on specifically what you -- how you see the market for medical assisting kind of evolving over time relative to the market for nursing because obviously we're seeing tremendous growth from nursing and the medical assisting market still seems to be a little bit sluggish and I'm wondering if you have a view on that.
Yes my view on that part to take that part first is that there's a need for both -- not broadened.
When you said medical assisting I think you're really -- you may be referring more broadly to Allied health ancillary care programs whether medical assisting surgical tech pharmacy tech all those tech programs.
It seems to be that there's a huge need there as well.
I think the supply/demand imbalance at the registered nursing level is even greater.
So that's a little bit of it.
I think the student connection and prospective student perception of the return on that investment of time and money is even stronger.
And so that may be a little bit what's underlying some of that market demand phenomena you're pointing to but very strong long-term outlook for both.
And then in terms of the first part of your question other areas that we'd like to be in that we're not there are actually many and that's an area of active strategic planning that we're doing right now and our team is doing a really good job.
They've identified several areas of public health like the Masters in Public Health think about that physical therapy occupational therapy pharmacy.
So there's a number of areas of healthcare that we're not in that we'd like to be in and I think ultimately will be that create future opportunities for growth for us.
Our next question comes from Jason Anderson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Regarding your BTM obviously you kind of forecasted it would be down pretty good.
But it seems to be heavier than normal.
I know you did provide some color but is there anything different going on there? Has the market deteriorated further? Are there any other internal issues that you can note? No Jason.
I would say that DeVry University just continues to operate in a prolonged cyclical period of weakness that's having an impact across higher education as we see prospective students many of them lacking confidence in the job market and sort of being hesitant to commit to going to college.
You don't see that among the upper half it's more among the lower half.
And while there's still that hesitancy to go back to school we are seeing signs that consumer confidence is slowly coming back and so that could help us.
I think there is maybe not -- that wasn't really your question but we've heard from some others somewhat of a misperception that these factors are just impacting private sector institutions.
It's not the case.
We do see and continue to see many independent and public sector institutions not the Harvard's and Stanford's but sort of the good mid-tier publics and independents being impacted.
Just saw the other day in the Chronicle of Higher Education a new survey of small private colleges mid-sized state institutions showed that 38% of them didn't meet their freshman enrollment or their revenue goals.
University of Southern Maine we saw 50 faculty positions eliminated to close their budget deficit.
Even law schools see a 4-year enrollment slide.
University of Toledo I just saw an article took a big hit a 26% decline in their first year law students.
And so again not going to see that at Harvard's and Stanford's.
We are seeing that across that mid-tier that kind of regular school that is much more in the realm of a DeVry University.
But here's why we're optimistic about the future.
Again there's more than 30 million people who have some college but no degree and that is a great opportunity for us.
We're going to do a better job attacking that with our programmatic focus strategy.
We're seeing opportunities to provide a more focused degree completion offering to those students and that gives us optimism.
And then of course our diversification strategy outside this area into healthcare and Professional Education in Brazil and around the world also is something that gives us strength and optimism for the future.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Then just one more.
I'm kind of playing off of that and Trace asked a little about it too.
The program leader structure and management now of that -- under that structure do you -- when -- how long I mean it seems it would be kind of long-term but is there any chance for opportunity or benefits here in '15 or are we looking more at '16 and beyond to see any I guess noticeable traction there? Well you're right putting those strategies into place doing the research program by program does take some time.
And that's why in the meantime we're really focused on improving our effectiveness in the marketing and recruiting process.
We see opportunity there right now optimizing our pricing and then of course watching and managing our costs effectively and I think we're doing a very good job there.
So that's why Rob Paul has reminded me whenever I say turnaround plan it's turnaround and transformation plan.
There's 2 parts.
There's a longer-term transformation.
We have to respond to the long-term trends that we see in U.S.
higher education and right now we've got to turnaround our results.
So it's both and I think we are going to see and at least we expect to see improvements in this fiscal year.
So thank you for that.
The next question comes from Jeff Meuler of Baird.
Research Division</strong> First just Tim did you say you expect DeVry Group revenue and OpEx to both be down slightly on a year-over-year basis next quarter.
Was that the message? I did.
Research Division</strong> Okay I guess on BTM.
The good news is you guys are doing a great job of controlling or managing costs and I know that's a lot of hard work and operating income was up year-over-year despite a pretty significant revenue decline.
But obviously the bad news is the new enrollment trend.
How much more of an enrollment or revenue decline could you sustain and still maintain your goal of keeping the business unit with favorable or positive business unit economics? Yes I'll try that.
It's something I worry about a lot.
Certainly stronger enrollments make -- are maintaining the segment economics much easier.
But you'll notice when you run the math that we've been pretty aggressive on costs the percent of cost recovery of lost revenue was almost $1 [ph] and that's up significantly if you go back and look at the last couple of years.
So I think it's really the transformation side of the discussion that Daniel's talking about.
We're spending a lot of time thinking about what changes do we need to make in how we deliver the education.
We do feel good about the quality of what we do and the value proposition and how we positively impact our students' lives.
So certainly I'm very hopeful that we find a bottom and stability here.
I guess we've been smaller than we are today.
Last year we did $930 million of revenue in that segment.
You don't have to look very far to see when it was a $500 million institution.
I'm certainly not suggesting that's where we're going but I think we've got to wake up every day and deal with the cards that we have.
And as Daniel said we're working aggressively to improve things.
He mentioned in his comments that while we're very disappointed in September.
November we thought would be better and early indications of January better.
So I'm kind of got my fingers crossed that the work that we're doing in the marketing is going to pay off sooner rather than later.
But just it's hard.
As you mentioned but we're working it and I think we'll let you know when we feel like we're running into trouble.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Daniel I was a bit surprised by one of your answers to a question at a recent investor conference where you got asked about would you consider spinning off your Brazilian assets.
And I think you said everything is on the table.
So is that or another more drastic action to the corporate structure something that the board is actively looking at or is it just you don't want to rule anything out or I guess what would maybe cause the board to go down and evaluate looking at more drastic action in terms of the current corporate structure? Yes I'm just indicating Jeff that we're open and we're listening.
We're listening to our fellow owners we listen to you guys and your thoughts and contributions.
We do research out in the marketplace.
We listen to our advisors bank advisors strategic consultants.
And we're just indicating to you that in contrast to not being open or having your head in the sand or being fixed in your position we're open and we just constantly evaluate.
We know it's a dynamic world and we're always open to looking at new strategies.
That's all I'm indicating.
Research Division</strong> So open but no active exploration on it? Yes always open.
Always open to alternatives and new strategies yes.
The next question will come from Sara Gubins of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about what revenue per student was for undergrad in the first quarter and what the trend was? And are you still expecting revenue per student to be down about 1% to 2% during fiscal '15? It's Pat.
So revenue per student undergrad DVU in the first quarter was up about 3% year-over-year a little higher than what we expected largely benefiting from underutilization of some planned scholarships and then benefiting also from higher than versus the prior year average credit hour in the September session.
But for the full year we're expecting that our revenue per student DVU would be down in the 1% to 2% range.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then separately could we get some more details on where the cost cuts came from the kinds of roles? And also conceptually you said that you were disappointed by the undergrad starts and that led to an increase in the amount of cuts in costs that are planned.
And I'm wondering how quickly can you increase or flex your cost cut plans when you're seeing variations in enrollment trends at DeVry University? The first part I'll unpack that with respect to the first quarter restructuring.
The charge in total is $13.3 million.
About $12 million of that related to workforce reductions in a voluntary separation plan at DeVry University impacting faculty from a voluntary separation plan as well as campus-based administrative personnel.
And then the remainder of the charge related to some additional real estate consolidations for both DeVry University as well as Carrington.
In terms of the acceleration as we look we're very focused on optimizing our average students per class and balancing that.
So we're working on that very acutely and that's driving savings on the cost of education level as well as Tim had announced in his remarks on the call that we're pending the additional consolidation of 9 end market locations for the balance of the year here and potentially a few more.
Sara just add to that it's Tim.
We have a bit more visibility to these enrollment data than you guys have.
We see them a little bit ahead so we're thinking about this and thinking about our objectives and so when we see weakness then we're back to the team and we have a lot of work going on not just on as we mentioned the turnaround but we're thinking about transformation and those things are designed to allow us to deliver a good experience or a great experience at less cost.
So there's a lot of things that we see and I guess we will continue to be as nimble as we can.
It's not easy but you can see we're accelerating the rate of recovery of lost revenue.
So it's a sense of how much time and energy we're spending.
The next question is from Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions.
Just you'd mentioned on DVU may be some better trends in November and January.
I don't know if you wanted to put an order of magnitude on that.
It doesn't sound like you've changed your revenue per student expectations for DVU or for BTM despite maybe the change around pricing.
Is that the right on revenue per student -- what's the order of magnitude on the improvements in November January? Then I've got a couple of follow ups.
Well let me try on the student.
So we are -- as we've mentioned very disappointed and down 20% on undergraduate news.
We believe that November is better than that.
Probably maybe half the decline kind of in the high single low double.
So improvement not where we want to be and while it's very early in January we're seeing some things -- we're seeing some signs that some of the work that we're doing around change in scholarship and some of our digital search techniques are paying off.
So more on that later but I guess what we didn't want investors or shareholders to think is that what we saw in September would continue in November.
So it's a little hard to tell.
It's been a bit of a challenge but that's a sense of what we're seeing.
Was there something else that we didn't answer? Research Division</strong> Just on the revenue per student.
Did the changes you're making in pricing and I guess the completion of scholarships that doesn't impact your sort of minus 1% to 2% on revenue per student? One of the challenges in the September quarter is we just didn't giveaway as many scholarships which was part of the reason why we didn't have as many students.
So we still believe that the minus 1% to 2% is kind of the right number to be thinking about just given the nature of the market and as we adjust our pricing and scholarship strategies we think we will use those and help drive better enrollment results.
Research Division</strong> And being that it's late October your visibility in November must be decent correct? Whereas January is probably not so? Yes exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could just move on is there a number on organic a new enrollment number that we should think about for Brazil.
And then Carrington ex the sort of one less start what's the underlying trend at Carrington? And then I've got a final one please.
Sure.
So for DeVry Brasil all of the starts in this session were all organic meaning that the last acquisition we would've had in our results would've been [indiscernible] our medical school which we completed on July 1 of last year.
[indiscernible] their enrollments and revenue were in line with overall DeVry Brasil.
Research Division</strong> Carrington on an underlying basis maybe on a same-store basis? Same-store basis would have been well you have to adjust for the...
1 fewer.
1 fewer start but would have been up more in line with revenue in the mid-single digits and then with that start shifting into the second quarter we would expect new student enrollments to be up higher than what we saw here in the first.
Research Division</strong> Okay great and Dan if I could ask you one just a final one on DeVry Medical International.
You talked about some enrollment counselor issues a year ago and it seems like it's kind of popped up again.
I just thought there was a lot more ex qualified potential doctors a lot of excess demand.
You're always turning away good people.
Is that not the case? Yes we do expect stronger results in the January class and much of this in my view is operational and we need to improve the admissions process.
So the good news is that we have fixed the beginning of that process.
We have a stronger level of inquiries coming in.
Now we need to continue that good work that the team is doing right through to the application and to the starting of actual enrollment stage of it.
That's where we've got a lot of our focus and I would just add to that I think we can do a little bit better job in marketing and branding of our institutions and then there's some other things as well.
So we think we can control a lot of operational factors and get back and that's why I think Tim indicated we're still confident in the long-term trend of the low single-digit long-term enrollment growth and then you put a little bit of tuition on top of that and then leverage and everything else and that's how you get to the underlying economic growth opportunity that we have at DMI.
Research Division</strong> So just it sounds like it's a lead issue not a conversion or show rate? No it's kind of the opposite.
A little bit more further down the funnel if you will.
Research Division</strong> So more of a conversion rate? Yes.
The next question comes from Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> You've got John Crowther on for Peter.
Not trying to go back to the scholarship point too much but just wondering if you could give us a little bit of insight into maybe why you saw a little bit disappointing performance in your words on the Career Catalyst Scholarship given that it seemed to be having some positive traction over the last couple of quarters leading up to here.
And then maybe just talk a bit about the Degree Completer Scholarship.
The differences there and why that might lead to better enrollment or results in the back half of the year? Yes absolutely.
Thank you and I can understand that's a very important question why you'd be asking that and we were disappointed that the scholarship strategy wasn't as effective as we'd like.
We're still analyzing the reasons.
It's a little bit early but 1 hypothesis we have is we think there were more competitive offers in the market than there were in the prior the year ago period when we had that offer in the marketplace.
In the meantime we're responding to this by rolling out a new scholarship as you just indicated targeted at degree completers.
And so what that's about is going and approaching 31 million or so Americans with some college but no degree.
And those with some college but no degrees that's really a sweet spot for us at DeVry University.
We do a great job of serving those students and that's a core competency for us but we haven't really had this level of the focused scholarship targeted to that audience.
So again this is something that came out of the programmatic focus research that we did and we found that there's a real opportunity there.
So we think that with this sharper focus that we can attract and retain those degree completers a little bit better and therefore increase our enrollments.
Okay and then just on the -- in the comments you called out the success or growth that you're seeing from corporate partnerships on the healthcare side.
Also talked about the number you have on the DeVry U side as well.
Just wondering maybe you could give an update on how those corporate partnerships are going and your sort of view on those as being a potential driver of better enrollments over the next couple of quarters? That's something that we think is very important and yes so 400 corporate partnerships at DeVry University 350 at Chamberlain.
The 400 DeVry University yields about I think about 4 000 students and there's a quick skew to that.
So a large percentage of those 4 000 are coming from a pretty small percentage of the relationships.
So we see a very strong opportunity to grow our enrollments through those employer partnerships by adopting the best practices of the bigger ones.
And some of them have hundreds of students in Walgreens or -- sorry Walmart or big employers like that.
And it then it also applies not only to big corporations but to the federal government.
Many federal governments agencies some state governments some municipalities associations places like that.
So a real area of focus you put your finger on there and something that we'll keep you posted on.
And the next question comes from Jeffrey Volshteyn of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about a potential change in the PLUS loan eligibility and how it may impact enrollment for DeVry University.
I recall a few years ago when PLUS loans were sort of tightened and there was a negative effect on enrollments.
Just wondering if you've done any analysis? Sure and we have -- I appreciate that question.
Just to note that the negative impact that you mentioned from a few years ago was pretty minor.
And by the same token the relaxed credit requirements resulting from the new changes will probably have a minor positive impact on our students being able to access PLUS loans as well.
So not a lot of news to report here.
One reason that I say it's minor is we don't have a high-volume of parent PLUS mainly due the large number of independent students who we serve.
In the higher aggregate limits for subsidized and unsubsidized loans that those students have and thus they don't have to utilize parent PLUS as maybe some other colleges and universities who serve a lot of dependent students might have.
It might be a little bit more impactful for our grad students for the grad PLUS loans so we'll be watching that.
And in addition I'd like to hasten to add that we support the additional loan counseling that will now be required.
I'm a big believer in those kinds of practices to make sure that students and their parents have the best possible information and financial awareness.
Big big focus for us.
So thanks for that.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just give a couple more follow up questions.
On the $90 million cost reduction program is it possible to understand timing throughout 2015 of how those costs are going to be achieved.
Is it more based on transactions and real estate? Timing will be fairly even given that we've increased our goal.
Obviously we'll have some more.
The run rate will slightly uptick as we exit the year.
And those Jeff as you know you're around but maybe others that's delivered costs savings in the year and you'll see that in the BTM if you look at their costs and expenses last year and compare it to this year we're committing that it would be $90 million or more less than it was a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last one from me.
Did you mention flat margins for medical and international segment? Did I hear you right? No.
And the next question is from Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> So I missed a portion of your prepared remarks.
So if I ask something you have answered already don't -- I don't want to waste everyone's time just say you answered and I'll check the transcript.
But the first question I had is that last quarter you sounded somewhat optimistic on the trend for graduate enrollment.
It looks like it didn't at least -- it looks like it didn't pan out the way you were hoping.
Is that accurate and can you just talk about kind of what you're seeing in the landscape for the graduate side? Sure and we didn't cover that before so you're safe Corey and it's a good question.
I appreciate that because you have a very good memory if you're not punctual.
On the other side you have a very good memory.
And you're right we did say that and that didn't pan out.
It wasn't -- it was a little stronger than the undergraduate side but would have liked to see a little bit more there.
At the same time we do remain optimistic and we think we have a very good opportunity.
Keller's got a really strong brand and when we do a better job of getting out into the marketplace we do see more productivity there.
So this again great example of programmatic focus.
The team is much more focused and dedicated in looking at the opportunities for Keller so you might see that manifest itself in some communications out there in the marketplace that are focused on Keller a little bit more.
And we do see the graduate market is a good one for us.
I can broaden that a little bit to the graduate market for nursing to our MSN and DNP and then opportunities for joint degree programs.
We've rolled out getting ready to roll out -- actually have rolled out the MSN MBA.
It's an opportunity at Keller and Chamberlain.
M.D.
MBA is something that we're looking at for the medical school students.
DVM MBA that's where you get the idea.
It's also a very nice opportunity for us in Brazil and graduate enrollments have picked up for us with a focus on graduate in Brazil as well.
So the grad market is a great place to be.
It's a place that we're adding resources and have a lot of optimism for the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the healthcare segment did you talk about the drivers of the growth in medical international revenue being a lot better than the growth in enrollment? Yes.
Well we partly did but essentially you're looking at increased clinical weeks during the quarter so we did a better job of helping our students move on to the clinical third and fourth year of medical school and then tuition increase.
Research Division</strong> So you expect that level of increase through the rest of the year relative to the enrollment growth? I think that might be the pattern.
Again the one other thing that we did say is we expect January to be an improvement in new student recruiting at DMI relative to what we just saw in September.
Research Division</strong> Okay but revenue per student growth you think that can persist for the rest of the year? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question I have is on the scholarship.
So maybe this is trying to slice this too finely but when you talk about doing a better job of attracting people who have some college credit.
If you look at the demographics of DeVry University I will think that a lot of the people already are in that category.
Is that wrong or is it just that do you want to do something to those people even though you do attract a bunch of them? We do attract many of them.
It is a sweet spot for us.
At the same time one of the revelations of the programmatic focus research was some of our students are actually going into a program that's really not focused on degree completion.
It's focused sort of on first-timers as well as degree completers and it's a bit of a -- not the best fit.
So what we realize is we've got to do a better job of honing our -- some of our programs to be a better fit for the needs of a degree completer more easier for transfer credit articulation that kind of thing.
So that's an example of how with a better focus on the program design together with this kind of transfer scholarship we think we can do a better job of attracting and I wanted to add retaining both of which should result in better enrollment.
And next we have a question from Jeff Silber from BMO Capital Markets.
It's Henry Chen calling in for Jeff.
Just a quick one for me on Chamberlain.
Can you remind us what is the additional capacity from the new campuses and as it relates to that just any updates on how you're thinking about the long-term growth rate for Chamberlain? We see continued growth for Chamberlain both with the pre-licensure campus-based programs and from the post licensure mostly online programs including RN to BSN and then the Master's and doctoral programs.
So we see a lot of long term growth opportunity.
I think with those new campuses 3 and possibly 4 this year the base coming into the year of 13 that kind of gives you a sense of the relative mix.
And do you have a little extra color? The way I can think about is some other data points along those lines is that out of the 13 campuses we've got 11 that are what we consider mature 3 or more years of operation 2 are developing and then we expect 1 new one.
But in addition to that we're also funding 4 additional campuses that aren't yet operational.
So we mentioned a couple that we're getting ready for a start to grow.
So I think those of you that file story know it takes a couple of years to turn these campuses from a cash burn to a positive.
The way I also like to think about it is we think about the end of '15 about -- a little more than half of the Chamberlain revenue will come from our post-licensure programs the RN to BSN the MSN and the Dr.
of Nursing Practice.
And that means a little less than half is coming from our campus based programs that are growing nicely.
So those are some other data points that might help you as you think about the Chamberlain -- the great Chamberlain story.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Daniel Hamburger for any closing remarks.
Okay let me thank everyone for your questions.
We really appreciate it and suggestions.
Our next quarterly results call is scheduled for February 5 and we'll be announcing our fiscal 2015 second quarter results.
Thank you all for your continued support of DeVry Education Group.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the fiscal 2015 Second Quarter DeVry Education Group Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please also note today's event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Ms.
Joan Walter Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am please go ahead.
Thank you Jamie and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry Education Group leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Chief Accounting Officer.
I'd like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements with respect to the future performance and financial conditions of DeVry Education Group that involve risks and uncertainties.
Various factors could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied.
These factors are discussed under risk factors in our fiscal 2015 second quarter 10-Q and our fiscal 2014 10-K both filed with the SEC and available on our website at www.devryeducationgroup.com.
DeVry Group disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Additionally during the call we may refer to non-GAAP financial measures which are intended to supplement but not substitute for our most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our press release which contains the financial and other quantitative information to be discussed today as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is also available on our website.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until February 27.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for the information.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
Before I review our second quarter results I'd like to pay a tribute to Dr.
Connie Curran our board chair who passed away in November.
Connie joined our board in 2003 and became board chair in 2013 succeeding Harold Shapiro.
Her vision and experience in board governance was a tremendous asset to DeVry Group.
And what she contributed to the growth and success for our organization will continue to benefit us for many years to come.
I'd also like to welcome Chris Begley as our new board chair.
Chris has a passion for education and his tremendous business and board experience will continue to guide us.
While challenges remain at DeVry University DeVry Group continued to see growth in new students during the second quarter.
As we expected we saw revenue growth at all our institutions except DeVry University and Becker Professional Education.
We announced 2 more acquisitions in Brazil.
And we also made progress on our 2 overarching strategic objectives.
As a reminder those are turnaround and transform DeVry University; and secondly to continue our growth via diversification.
Let me provide you an update on our progress toward these 2 objectives.
At DeVry University November and January results were disappointing.
We had the right plan and the right people executing the plan and the team continues to make progress on our goal of turning around and transforming DeVry University.
As we look toward the March class we expect an improvement in enrollment compared to January.
The turnaround plan starts with our enhanced programmatic focus.
Students are attracted to institutions with differentiated programs supported by a strong university brand.
Over the years we've built a strong and well-recognized brand for DeVry University.
Now we're focused on managing much more at the program level ensuring each program is designed to best meet the needs of its students and employers and that we better communicate the value proposition of each program at the local market level.
We've now built the teams to support our programmatic focus across 3 areas: business technology and emerging programs.
Let me share a couple of examples that illustrate what we're doing here to stabilize enrollments and to compete more effectively.
The first example is in accounting.
75% of CPAs are approaching retirement in the next 5 years.
So that's a large opportunity that we're well positioned to help our students take advantage of as DeVry University is one of the largest universities with students studying accounting and has a terrific curriculum including a partnership with Becker's CPA review.
We've now embedded Becker content and its special teaching methodology directly inside our DeVry University undergraduate accounting courses.
And we're calling this Becker Built In.
We believe leveraging Becker's strong reputation in the accounting world enhances our value proposition.
Our emerging programs vertical includes our health sciences media arts and technology and liberal arts and sciences and represents just over 20% of total enrollment.
Our programmatic team found that there's expected to be a shortage of 50 000 jobs in the medical records and health information fields in the next 10 years.
This insight led us to develop our first undergraduate certificate in medical billing and coding.
This program provide students with a lower cost pathway to begin their education at the certificate level and proceed to associate and bachelor levels over time.
Our programmatic focus is also helping our speed to market.
The team conceived developed and brought this program to market in just 4 months.
Let me tell you a story that illustrates our confidence in the value proposition of DeVry University's programs.
A friend of my son is a recent graduate with a bachelor's degree who is a very bright and motivated student and completed his 4-year degree in just 3 years.
Upon graduation he had not 1 but 3 job offers.
He ultimately chose to work for 1 of the big 4 accounting firms in information security at a starting salary of more than $85 000.
Historically we found that this kind of strength at the back end works its way to demand at the front end.
And the second part of DeVry University's turnaround plan is reducing our cost structure while striving to maintain and even enhance our service to students.
On last quarter's call we announced an increase in our value creation goal from $70 million to $90 million as we align our cost structure to enrollment levels at DeVry University.
One example of how we're approaching this area is our continued adoption of eBook students.
This provides value and savings for our students when compared to purchasing traditional textbooks while growing revenue.
And this is why we use the term value creation.
Reducing costs enhancing revenue improving service and value to students are all elements of our value creation process.
I'm seeing Rob Paul and his leadership team at DeVry University operate with a strong sense of urgency.
Our programmatic teams under our new Chief Marketing Officer Melissa Esbenshade are working hard to stabilize our enrollment and to compete more effectively.
This is the team that led the turnaround at Carrington College and I'm confident they'll do it again at DeVry University.
We look forward to providing more detailed update on the turnaround and transformation plan next quarter.
DeVry Group's second overarching strategic objective is to continue our growth by diversification in our health care international and professional institutions.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we're continuing to expand the number of campuses.
This year we'll add campuses in Houston Las Vegas and the Detroit area and we'll co-locate with DeVry University in North Brunswick New Jersey in May.
This will bring us to 4 new campuses for the year and 17 in total.
We continue to work on a pipeline of potential markets across the country.
Chamberlain also continues to exemplify our commitment to academic quality.
During the quarter the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education granted accreditations to 2 of our programs our Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree the BSN was reaccredited for 10 years.
And our Doctor of Nursing Practice degree received its first programmatic CCNE accreditation that was for 5 years.
As our featured institution this quarter Tim and I would like to spend a few minutes focusing on Chamberlain its strong value proposition and the bright future for nursing education.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics registered nursing is among the top occupations in terms of job growth.
And it's projected that there will be 1 million additional nurses needed by 2022.
So this is a sizable market for years to come.
Here's the way we think about Chamberlain.
We have a campus-based pre-licensure and then the online post-licensure programs.
On the pre-licensure side we have 16 campuses that we expect to grow to nearly 30 by the end of the decade.
We offer a 4-year degree that can be completed in 3 years which is a tremendous value for students.
We have strong clinical networks which have competitive advantage and an indicator quality.
Now on the post-licensure side programs include the RN to BSN; the Master of Science in Nursing or MSN; the Family Nurse Practitioner or FNP; and then the Doctor of Nursing Practice or DNP.
These innovative programs are meeting the demand for nurses who need to obtain these credentials to keep their current jobs or to advance their careers.
The one thing you might be thinking about in our RN to BSN program is how we have successfully sustained our growth in this highly competitive market.
Well we believe this is due to our superior value proposition strong brand reputation and our strong relationships with health care organizations.
End market research shows that 60% of all new RNs have an associate degree or less so we believe there will be -- continue to be a great number of associate level nurses many of whom will need to go back to complete their BSN.
And lastly the real differentiator for Chamberlain is what we call Chamberlain Care.
This is the care and support we give our students to help them achieve their goals and reach their dreams.
And that's both the hardware if you will of service excellence the processes the metrics technology.
And also the software which is fostering a deep palpable culture of care and support and service.
Students and colleagues tell us all the time that they were attracted to Chamberlain and remain here because of this culture of Chamberlain Care and it's working.
In 2014 alone Chamberlain graduated nearly 10 000 nursing professionals making us one of the largest producers of nurses in the U.S.
Let me move on to DeVry Medical International.
We were disappointed by the new enrollments in the January class.
When we spoke to you last we believe January was going to be better than the September class but we didn't achieve this goal.
However we believe the demand for medical education remains strong.
Let me comment on some of the actions that we're taking to improve our new student enrollments.
First we're increasing the number of inquiries the top of the funnel if you will.
We're starting to see better results here refilling the pipeline of inquiries.
Second we need to increase the number of qualified applicants because they weren't as many of those applicants as we wanted.
Third we're making organizational changes to provide more focus and support to each of the medical schools.
And then fourth we're enhancing our scholarship initiatives aimed at attracting and enrolling more students.
We think we have a good plan and can support our long-term target of low single-digit enrollment growth.
Then at the Carrington College the consolidation under 1 institution is progressing well.
We're seeing positive signs in markets such as Portland and San Jose with several competitive colleges shut down and we were able to help those students to finish their programs.
Carrington is growing and we think that says a lot about our programs value proposition and execution.
We believe this segment offers good prospects for long-term growth and we continue to make selective investments.
In San Jose we're in the process of moving to a new 50 000 square foot location.
The new location will have new equipment and learning facilities offering our students a great education.
Our diversification strategy is also paying off at our International and Professional Education segment.
During the quarter Becker Professional Education launched a certified management accountant exam review course in India through our relationship with our partner EduPristine.
We also announced a new partnership with the American Medical Student Association to help prepare medical students for success on the boards.
Moving to DeVry Brasil.
We announced 2 acquisitions during the quarter.
First is Faculdade Ideal or Faci which is a little easier to say which we completed in January.
It's located in the city of Belm in the state of Par in northern Brazil.
Faci serves about 2 500 students and offers undergraduate programs in high-demand career fields such as law education accounting and engineering.
Belm is an attractive market with a strong need for quality education.
We've had our eye on the city for some time and we're pleased we could bring Faci into our group of institutions.
Second is Damsio Educacional.
Damsio is a leader in bar exam test preparation with a network of approximately 220 learning centers and distant learning throughout Brazil.
Damsio also operates a highly regarded law school with campuses in So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Our first presence in Southeast Brazil.
It has a 44-year history in Brazil and serves more than 50 000 students.
And we've included a map in today's release that shows our current footprint in Brazil.
Strategically this acquisition meets both of our top 2 priorities for acquisitions namely diversifying globally and in professional education.
Test preparation is a market we know well given our long experience with Becker.
Note also that most of Damasio's revenue is in test preparation.
So Damsio helps us diversify from government funding sources.
And many of you may be wondering about the PS student loan program.
The government has stated that it's supportive of this program which is important to helping achieve the national goal for college graduates.
But the country is having to make fiscal reductions across the board and the education budget is no exception.
So there will be changes that reduce the PS program such as only allowing students scoring at a certain level on the national college assessment exam to be eligible for PS.
Other changes could include extending the payment period from the government to the colleges.
We believe that the changes will likely increase our working capital but will have a relatively small impact on our enrollment.
This is because our institutions are positioned at a high enough level that most of our students have qualifying scores on that college assessment exam.
It's interesting by almost every measure academic results enrollment results student satisfaction colleague engagement we're on track to have our best year ever at DeVry Brasil.
So to summarize our second strategic objective our diversification in higher growth career fields degree levels and geographies continues to position us for long-term growth.
Let me now turn the call over to Tim and Patrick to review the financials and enrollment results.
Thanks Daniel.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'll start with the overall financial results and go through our reporting segments.
Revenue from continuing operations declined 1.3% year-over-year for the quarter while increasing 0.5% for the first 6 months of the year.
Strong growth at Chamberlain and DeVry Brasil mitigated the challenging environment at DeVry University.
Given the challenges at DeVry University we continued our cost reduction efforts during the quarter resulting in the recording of a $10.2 million pretax restructuring charge related to real estate optimization.
Excluding special items total cost from continuing operations decreased 0.5% for the quarter and 1% for the first 6-month period reflecting these ongoing reduction initiatives.
Offsetting our cost reduction initiatives this quarter were investments to support our growth.
We reported net income of $42.4 million for the quarter and $62.9 million for the 6-month period resulting in earnings per share of $0.65 and $0.96 respectively.
Earnings per share from continuing operations and excluding special items were $0.75 for the quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 12.5% for the quarter.
We expect that our effective income tax rate for the year will be in the 14% to 15% range.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue grew 12% during the quarter and nearly 15% for the 6 months.
All institutions in the segment grew revenue this quarter with the strongest growth coming from Chamberlain which was up 32% for the 6-month period.
Segment costs grew 16% in the quarter and 14% for the 6-month period given investments to support future growth and a larger share of home office costs that support our medical and health care institutions.
As a result operating income excluding special items for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter decreased 3% but increased 19% for the 6-month period.
At DeVry Medical International new students in the January semester declined 3.8% and total students declined 7.9% for the reasons Daniel discussed.
Chamberlain new student enrollment grew 9.5% in November and 5.7% in January over prior year periods.
Total students grew 32.3% in November and 27% -- 27.1% I'm sorry in January.
These increases reflect demand for our pre-licensure BSN and post-licensure RN to BSN programs.
These increases were partially offset by a year-over-year decrease in our FNP program where we reached our clinical capacity much earlier than planned staging enrollments to ensure a high-quality experience for our students while we work hard to increase clinical capacity.
These enrollment results are contributing to another year of strong revenue growth for Chamberlain.
We expect to end the year with more than $360 million of revenue up about 25% and with operating margins close to the overall segment average.
Adding on to Daniel's discussion of Chamberlain I'd like to give you some additional context on the economics of opening new Chamberlain campuses and provide a framework for their growth going forward.
As you know we offer both pre-licensure and post-licensure programs at Chamberlain.
About 45% of the revenue is generated from our campus-based pre-licensure programs with the balance 55% being generated from our post-licensure or online programs.
The nature of our pre-licensure programs require us to make significant investments up front typically about $4 million as we construct the facility obtain the patient simulators and other classroom and lab equipment hire professors and staff all while we await approval from the various state and accrediting bodies.
It's a process on average takes about 4 years beginning with the preenrollment period obtaining approvals and enrolling students.
This is typically 1.5 years of preenrollment and then 2.5 years to get to breakeven once we actually open.
During that time we're underwriting about $4 million of operating losses until that campus reaches breakeven.
Today of our 16 campuses we have 5 campuses that are in this preenrollment stage or have been opened less than 2.5 years.
Over time we expect that our pre-licensure programs will outpace the growth of our post-licensure programs putting pressure on operating margins but increasing operating income dollars.
Even though our post-licensure programs are less capital-intensive there are bigger barriers to competition for campus-based programs and we like that positioning.
Moving to Carrington College.
Carrington was profitable in the quarter at the institutional level for the third consecutive quarter.
New students in the period increased 14.4% from the prior year driven by demand for medical and veterinary programs and a change in the timing of program starts from the first quarter into the second.
Total students increased 1.2%.
With additional help from effective expense management our economics at Carrington continue to improve.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment.
Revenue for the segment decreased 0.3% during the quarter as a result of anticipated revenue declines at Becker but had solid growth of nearly 9% for the 6-month period.
As Daniel stated DeVry Brasil's having its best year ever.
Revenue year-to-date has grown 23%.
New and total enrollments are at record levels.
At the institutional level we continue to see solid organic growth.
The integration of FMF is proceeding well and we've commenced integration of Faci and Damsio.
At Becker revenue declined 26% during the quarter.
The decrease was primarily the result of a shift of about $4 million in revenue into the first quarter when we launched Becker One.
Becker is also impacted by a continued softness in the number of CPA exam candidates.
The segment's operating income decreased during the quarter also driven by lower Becker revenue.
And finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was down 12% during the quarter and year-to-date as a result of lower enrollments.
Excluding special items the segment generated operating income of $11.1 million for the quarter up nearly 12% over last year and operating income of $11.2 million for the 6-month period.
A key operational goal continues to be maintaining positive economics in the segment which means positive segment margin and cash flow.
During the quarter we continue to focus on optimizing real estate footprint consolidating 9 in-market campus locations.
We'll meet and likely exceed our cost savings goal of $90 million for the year.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect revenue will be relatively flat versus prior year as anticipated declines at DeVry University will offset revenue growth at our other institutions.
We anticipate that operating costs will increase about 4.5% sequentially.
About 1/3 of the increase will be driven by campus expansion at Chamberlain about 1/3 is related to recent acquisitions in Brazil and about 1/3 driven primarily by an increase in DeVry University advertising expense all to support future revenue growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Think Tim.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our liquidity and financial position remain solid and differentiates DeVry Group from others in private sector education in the U.S.
Cash flow from operations for the 6-month period was $92 million.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $380 million as of December 31 an increase of $118 million over last year's cash balance.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $89 million down 24% from the prior year as a result of lower revenue at DeVry University and increases in reserves.
Year-to-date bad debt as a percentage of revenue was 3.2%.
DeVry Group continues to be an efficient user of our shareholders' capital.
We take a balanced approach to capital allocation with our main priority of maintaining academic quality through investments in our core operations.
Our other capital allocation priorities include investing in new programs and new campuses where there is the greatest demand.
A great example is the addition of Chamberlain campuses this quarter where we're investing in growth where we have a proven track record of generating solid returns.
In addition we will continue to make strategic acquisitions.
We recently committed approximately $107 million for the acquisition of Faci and Damsio.
Our final priority is share repurchases and dividends which amounted to $23 million for the first 6 months of the fiscal year.
Capital expenditures for the first 6 months were $43 million.
For the year we expect capital spending to be in the range of $95 million to $100 million with approximately 80% being deployed to our Medical and Healthcare and international institutions as we invest in new programs locations and infrastructure.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Daniel.
Thanks Pat.
I'd like to take a moment to address the President's recent proposal on community colleges.
First we applaud solutions to address our nation's workforce needs and more students going to community colleges can be a good thing for our institutions.
Many community colleges' graduates seek a 4-year degree and we have articulation agreements with many of the largest community college systems across the country.
These students tell us they're looking for the kind of care and support to small classes individual attention and career services that our institutions are known for.
So whatever the outcome of this proposal we'll continue to partner with community colleges working together to meet the country's workforce needs.
And before we open the call to your questions I'd just like to sum up by saying that we are committed to our long-term vision of becoming the leading global provider of career-oriented educational services.
While not satisfied with where we are I do see progress in turning around and transforming DeVry University with the team working incredibly hard to stabilize enrollments and to position DeVry University to compete more effectively in the long term.
We're also focused on investing in the expansion of our health care professional and international institutions given our strong cash flow and financial position.
So with that we're eager to hear your thoughts and questions.
Joan? Great Daniel.
I'd like to ask Jamie if you could please give to our callers the instructions on how to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Nick Nikitas from Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at Chamberlain and the growth deceleration over the past 2 start periods.
Can you just talk more about the competitive dynamics that you're seeing across that industry? And also just any differences in maybe the trends between online versus on-ground growth? Sure.
Thanks Nick.
And one of the things to note is that the -- in the last couple of years when you see larger percent growth numbers -- of course first of all you have a lower percent and the law of large numbers goes along.
I think we all understand that.
But the other thing is some of those numbers were driven by a couple of new programs that were introduced the DNP and the FNP that we talked about.
And so those won't recur and that gives you those big percentage growths.
Further as Tim mentioned we put a self-imposed restriction on the number of new enrollments in the FNP program just to make sure that we're keeping up the very high-quality experience that we're providing for our students.
And that was mainly because we just had so much more demand than we had anticipated that we reached our clinical capacity a little bit earlier than we planned.
So that's a little bit about what we're seeing there.
In terms -- in the overall market that you asked about the first part of your question we talked about the size and growth of the overall nursing profession.
Interestingly the Institute of Medicine has called for an increased number of nurses with advanced degrees.
They've called for 80% to have a bachelor's or higher by 2020.
And so what you see is with an aging population improvements in medical technology expand the treatment that nurses can provide to patients the Affordable Care Act expanding power given to nurses with advanced degrees all of those factors kind of lead to a market growth.
And in particular the associate market continues to grow and that bodes well for Chamberlain because many of them are going to have to go on for a bachelor's degree later.
And a really sweet spot for us is the RN to BSN program.
So that's a little bit of color on what we're seeing in the nursing area.
I hope that covered what you're looking for.
I'd just add one thing Nick that as I mentioned we're seeing significant revenue growth for Chamberlain this year.
Second largest institution in our portfolio.
As we look into 2016 we expect to see significant growth again in the mid- to high teens.
So I think as Daniel mentioned and we've been I think pretty straightforward to say look we knew the growth rate would decelerate just on the rule of high numbers.
But when you think about kind of the momentum that the institutions have and the -- we expect that the FNP situation will return to growth by the end of next year.
And then when you think about the doubling essentially of the campus footprint we think there's a lot of room here to create additional growth and support the need for various kinds of nursing degrees in the market.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just one more.
Tim just looking at the margins for Medical and Healthcare.
Year-over-year you saw a little bit of a downtick in Q2.
Looking at the back half and with the growth of the new campuses would you expect that to be able to remain flat on a year-over-year basis or should we see some contraction? Well there are couple of things going on there.
One is is that the Medical and Healthcare segment grows as a larger percent of the institution they're taking a bigger load of the home office cost.
And so that's certainly one of the impacts.
We've tried to ask the institutions not to grow their expenses at a rate greater than their revenue growth.
But sometimes we'll get some opportunities like particularly in this second quarter we had a lot of start-up costs with these new campuses at Chamberlain.
I think in terms of the overall margin for the sector I think we're in the right ZIP code.
So I think it's down a little bit partly on this additional load but I think this is something that we'll be in that same ZIP code for the rest of the year.
Our next question comes from Sara Gubins from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about what undergraduate revenue per student did in the quarter? And are you still expecting 1% to 2% declines for the fiscal year? So DeVry University undergraduate revenue per student was up about 1.5% during the quarter largely due to little lower utilization on the scholarships than what we had anticipated as opposed to the last time that we spoke.
For the balance of the year revenue per student will likely be flat.
Research Division</strong> It will be flat for the balance of the year so it will end up being up for the full year? Could be yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you doing more to try to promote the scholarship or is it less of a priority? No we're very actively promoting the scholarships.
As we saw -- and with our current campaign on the degree-completer our degree-completer scholarship program.
And again our scholarships were designed to promote new student enrollments as well as to help students persist and pursue that educational goal.
And we'll continue to use that with that 2-pronged approach.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Daniel you mentioned as you looked towards the March class for undergrad that you expect an improvement in new student enrollments.
Do you have any indications based on lead flow or sign-ups already that's happening? Yes.
Sure Sara.
What we're -- I think -- and this kind of ties to your previous question about degree completers.
We put a big emphasis on that.
And the reason is that there's a huge number of people there's actually 31 million people who started college but have yet to graduate so they -- and we've emphasized that you might have seen that -- some of our communications that are out there.
And degree completion programs are the core competency at DVU.
It's a sweet spot for us.
We do -- we take care of these students really well.
And one of the things that gives me confidence is that where we're further along in executing our plan we're doing better.
So we put an emphasis on accounting and it was actually up in January.
We put an emphasis to your question on our degree completion program and it was up in January.
So it's early.
We have a long way to go but I'm encouraged by these early signs of success.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just last on Brazil.
Last quarter you talked about revenue to be above $150 million for the year.
Could you update that for the 2 recent acquisitions? Sure.
So likely revenue will be in the $160 million range for this year.
And then again growing as we would annualize the larger Damsio acquisition as well as Faci and FMF revenue could grow in the 30% range for the FY '16.
Research Division</strong> And that includes the impact of those acquisitions or that's on top of the -- that's an underlying growth rate or that's kind of adding in for the acquisitions? That's all in.
That would include organic growth as well as the acquisitions.
For the second quarter that we had -- of course we acquired FMF on October 1.
And so the second quarter growth was about 1/3 benefited from the impact of the FMF acquisition and 2/3 organic growth.
Our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just some questions on persistence.
It looked like it took a little bit of a hit at DVU.
Any comments? The same for Ross it looks like persistence is down for the last 2 quarters.
What are you seeing there? Then finally on just Ross and new enrollment declines.
I think Saint George's has a new ownership.
Are they more competitive now in that market? Or are you still seeing competition from like the DO degrees in the U.S.? Okay.
Kind of a lot to unpack there but let me give it a try appreciate your question.
Hold me accountable if I don't cover everything remind me.
In terms of persistence undergrad persistence at DeVry University improved in November slightly down in January.
But if you kind of level that out measured over trailing 6 sessions over the year persistence has been relatively flat.
And so okay but not good enough.
And our goal and part of -- a key part of the turnaround plan is improvement in persistence good steady improvement.
And there's a number of actions we're taking to do that so I have confidence there.
At DMI steady persistence.
So pickup line whatever you might be seeing -- maybe we can help you with that.
And I would say that -- I'm not going to comment on 1 particular competitor because we have many competitors in the U.S.
and internationally for medical school.
But a couple of comments more broadly on -- you mentioned DO schools and that kind of thing there is a position shortage today and it's expected to persist.
And just to give you some color on that the U.S.
faces a shortage of more than 130 000 physicians by 2025 and that's from the AAMC American Association of Medical Colleges (sic) [Association of American Medical Colleges].
And so even though there has been growth in seats from U.S.
allopathic schools and growth from the osteopathic schools it doesn't appear that that's going to close the gap.
And we've seen quite a bit of growth among the osteopathic the DO schools but it looks like that growth has flattened recently so we think we've seen most of the impact that we're going to see but time will tell.
And we really appeal to those students who want an MD versus a DO degree.
So a little bit of color on the competitive dynamic there.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I could sneak one in for Tim.
That 30% growth rate in fiscal '16 for Brazil does that include the impact of the government -- the changes in government regulations? It does.
And that compares with about 30% -- a little bit over 30% growth this year as well all in with the acquisitions.
Our next question comes from Corey Greendale from First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> First just a quick clarification.
Tim when you said you expect operating costs to be up 4.5% sequentially were you including the restructuring charges in Q2 or excluding those? Excluding.
Corey if you look at our spend it's been remarkably consistent over the last 4 quarters.
Total expend 425 426 424 425.
And there are a lot of moving pieces.
If you think about it over the last 12 months we've had decreases at DeVry University.
And so we thought the best way to say is look it's moving out of that pattern for some very specific reasons.
And the 2 key reasons are new campus openings at Chamberlain and the acquisitions at DeVry Brasil.
But we've also seen an opportunity to accelerate some spend at DeVry University in the marketing area to further some positive things that we're seeing there.
So 3 buckets.
The third bucket is not completely DeVry ad spend but those are the 3 ways I think you should think about it.
And we see those cost being with us maybe slightly less as we go into the fourth quarter.
But it's kind of a new setpoint for a little while as we kind of work through some of these moving pieces.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Helpful.
And then Daniel you've been very hopeful in giving your perspective on the market more broadly over the past multiple quarters.
And just taking a step back on the DeVry University business.
I know that last quarter you had said you thought that January was going to be better.
You were disappointed.
Can you just talk us through visibility in that business where in the funnel -- was it that you weren't able to generate enough inquiries? Was is that students didn't actually end up showing up to class? Where is the weakness? And what are you seeing more broadly in the market? Sure.
So I'll take it in that order.
And thanks it's a great question.
It's sort of the $64 000 question I guess.
We are in a time of limited visibility.
There is a lot of uncertainty.
But we're seeing indications that the turnaround plan is gaining traction.
I mentioned to Sara a couple of those I've referred to that.
Applications are up year-over-year for the March class but it's still early.
So I really want to add that caveat.
But those early indications give us some confidence that we could see better results in the class.
And then more broadly we just continue to operate in a cyclical -- a period of cyclical weakness which is having an impact across higher education.
It's interesting if you saw the Wall Street Journal front page last Thursday the emergence of a 2-tiered U.S.
economy with wealthy households advancing while middle and low income Americans still struggle.
And we serve a large population of middle and lower income students who come and get their education so they can move up.
And more prospective students just still lack confidence in the job market and they're hesitant to make that commitment to go to college.
And now there's a misperception that these factors are only impacting private sector institutions but many independent public sector institutions are being impacted as well.
In fact the latest numbers from the clearing house are in.
I know you saw this but just for everyone's benefit overall post-secondary enrollments in the fall decreased 1.3%.
And that's 3 years in a row.
I know every generation is supposed to get more education than the one before but we're now going the wrong way.
That's total enrollments in United States from Harvard to community college everything in between down community colleges down even more.
Break that out for adults 24 and older which is obviously a key consistency for DeVry University that decreased 2.8% year-over-year.
So this is the environment.
But while there is still some hesitancy to go back to the school there's lots of indications that consumer confidence is slowly starting to come back.
And here's why we're optimistic about the future.
More than 31 million people enrolled in college in the last 2 decades but they left without earning their degree and we serve these students very well.
So we're just going to continue to work our turnaround transformation plan at DeVry University and that's a little bit of color.
Our next question comes from Denny Galindo from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The -- you mentioned that you were going to increase advertising and that was part of the driver of the increased expenses.
Are you focusing at advertising on any particular segment maybe completers grad students any particular vertical? Yes.
There was a focus on the completers.
So if you saw or if anybody wants to see it just send us an email we send you a link if you want to see for example -- an example of the communication a television piece that really talks about these 31 million Americans in the last 20 years who have attempted college but they didn't complete.
And so there's 31 million reasons to complete that degree and what's yours.
And it's really a well-integrated program like #reasonstocomplete and there's social aspects.
You go into any one of DeVry University campuses and you'll find a big board with post-its there.
Put a post-it just like in the TV spot put a post-it of what's your reason to complete and sort of reinforce that reason: for my kids for my family to make more money to improve my life to get that degree I've always wanted.
And so yes that is a particular emphasis for us right now.
And I've had a question that well we'll see about that because a lot of people talk about people going back to school isn't that common.
And that's true that's a big part of our market.
But we -- for example we've noticed with this program and focus that a lot of students are going to one of our programs that's not exactly designed for degree-completers.
And if we can to a better job of designing that program make sure it really meets the needs of those students and the employers they serve and then do a better job of communicating that value proposition we should be able to do even better in the degree completion area.
And in fact we're starting to see some improvement there.
So that would be the area of focus.
Research Division</strong> And did it lead to a quantifiable impact on the January starts? Or do you think January was too early to see a benefit from this focus? I think January was too early to see the total benefit but there were some indications.
For example there's 1 program I'm thinking of where we do have a lot of degree completers was actually up year-over-year in the January class.
So in the middle of an overall decline there was a bright spot.
And accounting as I mentioned before was another bright spot with some positive numbers in front of it.
So those are some of the indications that we're making some progress on the turnaround plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a couple of questions on medical.
You mentioned all the start-up expenses associated with the medical with the new medical campuses at Chamberlain.
Could you quantify exactly how much start-up cost you would've had in this quarter? I guess you had 1 new campus but then you were probably also getting ready for the 2 January campuses as well and maybe even you spent a little bit to get ready for the co-location campus? There was -- the way I think about it is a little over $2 million spike over kind of the normal spend that was related to these 2 openings.
So a little bit out of the ordinary in that second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just thinking about how the co-location works.
How does this show up differently than just as a stand-alone campus in terms of expenses in terms of maybe margins or any other factors that you guys look at when you're thinking about when to do a co-location campus versus a stand-alone campus? The co-location -- our analysis shows kind of on the bookend of collocating versus opening a stand-alone campus in the same area.
I'd been in the sites of the campus and whether it's leased versus owned the bookends the synergies are on the low end of $400 000 and up to $1.1 million on the high end.
Obviously...
Per year.
Per year.
And we let -- the location that best suits the institution drive that decision but if we're in the same market we want to certainly leverage that investment in our fixed assets.
And we have 16 co-locations? 16 Chamberlain locations of which 14 are co-located.
We have co-location of course in Miami where we have DMI Chamberlain and DeVry University and then we have a couple Carrington co-locations as well.
Right.
2 Carringtons.
That's why I think of it 14 Chamberlain 2 Carrington plus a DMI with a Chamberlain as a bonus.
Okay.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just on Brazil on the recent acquisitions.
Are these degree mixes that will increase a metric like revenue per student decrease it or about the same? I would say it's mix.
The Faci is -- could be a little bit higher and those are degree programs very very similar to the other -- most of the other acquisitions that we have made.
And parenthetically let me just add if you'll allow me that's a great model because we're at a step-and-repeat of a well-worn acquisition integration plan a team that's done it many times.
We feel very comfortable with the acquisition integration process and the lower degree of risk that you're always thinking about when you make acquisitions.
That is just working very very well and we want to keep a good thing going there.
Damsio with the test -- the exam review portion for the Brazilian version of the bar exams called the OAD but we'll just call it bar exam that would be a little bit lower revenue per student.
And so that's in the mix and that's the majority of their revenue relative to the law school which would -- law school would be pretty similar to the law programs that we have at the other DeVry Brasil institutions.
Our next question comes from Trace Urdan from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'd like to go back to the contraction in margins in the medical part of the business.
It looked like revenue per student declined there and I didn't -- I'm not sure that I heard you address that specifically so I wonder if we could start there? Revenues per student were declining as we have a greater proportion of Chamberlain students which would obviously have a lower revenue per student than our medical and veterinary school as well as we saw some nice growth from Carrington.
And from there their revenue per student would be the lowest.
LLC Research Division</strong> And did that business come out the way that you expected? I mean Daniel made some reference to Ross not being as strong as you had hoped.
So did -- from your perspective did the revenue come in light relative to what you thought it was going to do so? Or is this exactly sort of on plan? One thing to note is that we're still seating large classes at DMI.
And to put it in context we were up about 20 students from last year.
So we would've been flat last year with 20 more students.
That just gives you a little bit...
Yes.
In terms of the revenue Trace it was very close.
We have a lot of momentum because those are multiyear classes and we have the clinicals and a lot of other things.
It's really the new students and then the total student that will impact us going forward.
But I think right at this point it's still tracking pretty close to where we expected.
LLC Research Division</strong> And when you referenced the Health Care business taking on a greater share of the overhead is this an explicit reallocation that took place in the quarter? Or is this just the natural way that those costs are attributed based on I don't know student population or based on revenue? Sure.
It's a little bit of both.
Our cost drivers are largely based on enrollment based on seat licenses and everything would require support from the home office from an IT student financial aid perspective as well as in colleague headcount for HR and other benefits-related costs.
So as Chamberlain as an institution is growing from a student as well as the colleague perspective they're consuming a higher proportion of home office services or at a faster rate than the other educational institutions.
Just a quick comment Trace.
That's an area that we obviously spend a lot of time focusing on.
And part of the challenge here is as DVU gets smaller and the Medical and Healthcare gets bigger there's a reallocation.
But I would tell you we're very closely managing the cost at the home office and the target's been to have them declining as a percent of revenue.
We're having a little bit of trouble with that this year as we deal with an FTC investigation and you'll notice that comment in our MD&amp;A.
So those are costs that we didn't expect to have and are putting some pressure on the home office.
But we're very focused on keeping those costs as a declining percent of our overall revenues.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if I could just pin you down a little bit more on this.
Was there a material onetime shift from 1 segment into -- I guess presumably from DVU into Medical this quarter? This year.
When the year is all done there was a fairly significant change.
This quarter it's just tracking along.
And we started that at the beginning of the year.
So we make the changes at the beginning of the fiscal year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
All right.
And then just a clarifying question.
I think Tim you -- I think I heard you say that operating expenses were going to be up 4.5% sequentially.
Is that right? Yes that's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I think I heard you respond it wasn't totally clear I'm not sure it's going to be clear in the transcript either.
But with respect to the Medical and Healthcare margins are we looking to be somewhat around flat.
Is that what you meant by ZIP code on a year-over-year basis? Or...
Yes.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So taking into account the weakness this quarter by the time we get to the year-end we should be more or less in the same general vicinity? Correct.
Thank you for clarifying that.
Yes.
Tim is good with analogies and ZIP codes is one of them.
So that's good.
LLC Research Division</strong> I didn't know if it was a ZIP+4.
Exactly.
How precise do you want to get? Our next question comes from the line of Jerry Herman from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> A question about the visibility you alluded to Daniel.
Can you give me some idea of what percent of applications or enrollments for DeVry University's March term are typically received by now? It's early.
It won't shock anyone that students whether they're your teenagers or your college kids or working adults tend to procrastinate.
So things do tend to come together at the last minute a little bit.
So it is more heavily weighted to the back half of the cycle and we're just entering that.
I would say and maybe this is sort of an add-on to an earlier question about where does the issue seem to be.
We have really done a good job and commend the teams in improving the conversion rate if you will from those who inquired to those who make application and then those who subsequently enroll.
And that's true at DeVry University Keller Graduate School of Management I think we're doing really well in Chamberlain.
So a pretty broad comment there.
But DeVry University specifically which is I think you're asking me we just -- the biggest thing we need there is a little bit more at the top of the process the beginning of the process top of the funnel if you will.
So that's what we're working very hard to generate and then we're working extremely hard to do everything that we can to control -- what we can control.
And once it gets -- when someone does inquire with us I think our teams are doing a terrific job.
And that's a positive indication to me to see that those who inquire with us are responding positively.
They like what they see.
The value proposition is strong.
It resonates with that prospective student and their family.
That's good because it [ph] gets little bit more at the top.
Jerry it's Tim.
One of the things that -- there's a lot of data here.
And one of the things that we do do is have a lot of data in terms of how are these inquiries tracking compared to the same period and to the same session last time.
What's a bit different and what creates the visibility problem is that there's some discontinuity in the data.
Sometimes things just don't play out when we look at from this point to the end how many of those students are actually going to come and enroll.
And so that's what creates a bit of the visibility.
But when we're giving you a sense of what we're seeing it's always based on how are we track and compare to last year how's the team on the ground thinking they're going to deliver this thing? So there's a fair amount of data.
The fact is it's just -- we're predicting consumer behavior which is hard to do sometimes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then just a quick question on cost.
You guys previously increased your cost reduction figure from $70 million to $90 million.
I guess in light of the slightly weaker than expected volumes at DVU it was noteworthy that it didn't go up again this year.
And I guess that begs the question is there anything left to cut? Or are you cutting into the bone at this juncture? No absolutely not.
And I was I hope very clear about our goal of maintaining the economics in this sector or the segment.
And we are very involved with the team thinking about the balance of this year but we're really thinking about '16 in terms of what are the things that we need to do.
And we're thinking about the business model we're thinking about the basic things Jerry that we need to cut.
We need to deal with real estate.
We need to deal with marketing cost.
We need to deal with excess capacity.
And so stay tuned.
We didn't -- we just gave a big increase.
We know we need to continue to do it to make the numbers work.
So we're working on that.
I think we'll have more to talk about with you guys on our next call.
Our next question comes from Jeff Silber from BMO.
This is Henry Chien calling in for Jeff.
I had a question on Chamberlain.
Would you be able to share with us for the new students in the November and January session the mix between pre-licensure and post-licensure? I don't think we're breaking that out.
I'd like to give you some sense of -- Patrick? Well I was going to say in terms of the impact of the FNP we saw double-digit growth in both of those the campus-based and the non-FNP.
And the FNP was negative.
So there's still some significant strength there in both those segments or sectors.
And it's the FNP where we need to stage these new student enrollment so that we can manage the clinicals on the backside while we work to increase the capacity.
Right.
Just to clarify FNP was a negative growth rate because of our own choice...
Exactly.
To limit the number of new student enrollments that we took.
The demand is there to do that.
Right.
And we talked to the team about that.
And as we look into next year we'd expect to see FNP enrollments grow again once we've sorted through this kind of big wave of students.
So really we were way beyond our expectations in terms of how popular the program was.
And so we wanted to make sure that we can manage all the clinical stuff in the second half of that what's usually a 3-year program.
Yes.
I just want to add on to that.
Just what Tim has said earlier on the call in his remarks itself that with respect to mix think about it from a revenue mix perspective 45% of the revenue is generated from our campus pre-licensure program but the balance of the 55% from the post-licensure or online programs.
Got it.
And then -- I know Chamberlain there's the new campuses and there's some margin pressure there.
I was wondering if you have any thoughts on what normalized margins would be with the campuses ramping up in maybe from a longer-term perspective for Chamberlain.
Sure.
We think that one of the key drivers here is -- well there's a number of them but maturity of the campus the size of the campus.
But the number of new campuses that are in the mix so we expect that the campus margins will be depressed for some time because we're talking about essentially doubling from 16 to near 30.
So it carries a load.
These campuses in aggregate are profitable and contribute significantly.
I think that the -- in a more normalized growth mode expect a low double digits kind of campus contribution.
And that would still include some campuses that were being bolted on.
Today it's less than that as we have a significant load from all these new campuses that are growing.
And certainly our large and scale campuses will do significantly better than that.
And our next question is from Michael Tarkan from Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just real quick.
Did you guys mention what the Carrington new start growth number would look like if you didn't have the extra start date? We did not.
And I don't think we have that breakout.
Right.
No.
But we can follow up with you.
But we like to think of it from total students we're up about 1.2% for the quarter and revenue was up as well.
So look at -- I think if you look at it from a total -- from quarter and first 6 months it's a good way to help model that.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then on the balance sheet or on the statement of cash flow I should say I noticed that operating cash flow it looks like for the quarter it was down or was a negative $49 million or so if you back out the first quarter.
I'm just wondering what that dynamic is.
I know it's a seasonally light quarter I'm just kind of curious if you can kind of talk to that.
Sure.
You said the magic word is the seasonality of our cash flow.
Our strongest quarter just in terms of operating cash flow are our first quarter as well as our third quarter.
The reason being with our first quarter we have our new session starts for DeVry University Chamberlain as well as DMI in September our Medical and Healthcare institution.
So there's a large amount of cash coming in in that first quarter and then a fewer number of session starts in the second quarter this quarter here.
And then obviously the third quarter cash flow with an increase again with the large session starts for DeVry University and Chamberlain in March.
And then the large DMI session start in May.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there any dynamic though from a year-over-year basis that we should be aware of because it looks like it was down about $20 million year-over-year? And I looked in -- the deferred tuition number looked like it was a little high this quarter I'm just wondering if you can talk on that? Yes.
There was a dynamic of about $20 million of cash that we normally would have received in December that did shift to January of this year at DMI.
And that was just based on the timing of the session start at Ross Med.
It started about a week later than January than normal.
So as a result instead of that cash coming in in advance which would have been January...
December.
Or December it came in January this year.
Wow we've got an eagle eye.
That was very perceptive.
Well done.
Well I believe that's all the questions we have.
Is that right? That's right.
Okay.
Then I just would like to thank everyone for your questions.
Our next quarterly results call is scheduled for April 23 when we'll announce our fiscal 2015 third quarter results.
Thank you for your continued support of DeVry Education Group.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.
Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 DeVry Education Group Results Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Joan Walter Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry Education Group's leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Chief Accounting Officer.
I'd also like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements with respect to the future performance and financial condition of DeVry Education Group that involves risks and uncertainties.
Various factors could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied.
These factors are discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in our quarterly reports and Form 10-K for fiscal 2014 filed with the SEC and available on our website at www.devryeducationgroup.com.
DeVry Group disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Additionally during the call we may refer to non-GAAP financial measures which are intended to supplement but not substitute for our most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our press release which contains the financial and other quantitative information to be discussed today as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is also available on our website.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until May 9.
To access the replays please refer to today's release for more information.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Daniel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
DeVry Education Group's strategy of quality plus diversification plus long-term focus continues to differentiate us.
During the quarter DeVry Group as a whole experienced strong growth in total post-secondary enrollments.
This growth was driven by our diversification into Healthcare and International institutions.
And it's in this context that I'd like to focus our call on the announcement we made in today's release regarding DeVry University.
In prior quarters we discussed our cost management and our shift to a programmatic strategy for the institution.
Today we are announcing the next phase of our strategy to transform DeVry University and return it to growth.
This involves focusing on fewer markets updating the brand differentially investing in local markets where we have the best competitive positioning and implementing new student-focused teaching and service innovations designed to attract today's students.
Over the past three quarters we put a new leadership team into DeVry University and that team has conducted a deep dive analysis of our students our employer partners and our programs.
We also brought in outside experts to help us assess the market competition and our operating model.
The result of this process is a strategy with both urgent near-term actions to improve enrollments and transformational investments to increase our competitiveness and differentiation over the long term.
In the near term our goal is to maintain positive economics and to reset the institution for growth.
Let me highlight three key actions that are underway.
The first involves our physical footprint.
We've identified a set of markets where we have relatively stronger competitive positions and these markets will differentially invest in local communications and enhanced marketing plans.
This is in contrast to our prior national marketing approach.
At the same time 14 locations or about 20% of our campuses will move to an online-only model.
These locations were carefully selected because our research showed that many students in these markets are now studying online.
The reduction of our campus footprint and related staff reductions will free up significant resources to enable this differential investment strategy in the remaining local markets.
Second we're reducing our cost structure in other areas.
For example even as we increase spend in the local markets we'll reduce overall marketing spend by almost $35 million.
In total we project over $125 million of savings in fiscal 2016.
And note that from fiscal 2013 through fiscal 2015 we'll have reduced DeVry University's cost by more than $300 million by aligning our cost structure with enrollments while continuing to enhance quality and service.
So combined we'll have reduced our cost structure by more than $425 million by the end of next fiscal year.
And third we relaunched the DeVry University brand.
Our new communications campaign emphasizes how DeVry University is different on purpose.
There's a link to one of the elements of the campaign in today's results announcement.
We're emphasizing what DeVry University is known for which is careers and care.
Students give us a great deal of credit for our ability to deliver strong career outcomes and for the care and support we provide them to help them achieve these outcomes.
The new messaging is designed to clearly establish a distinct voice for the brand and to instill pride in the students we serve.
Taken together these and other near-term actions are designed to maintain positive economics in fiscal 2016.
Now beyond these near-term actions our goal is to transform DeVry University bolstering our value proposition and student experience.
This will help us to better compete in the ever-changing higher education landscape.
I'll highlight four strategies here.
First we'll differentiate our teaching and service model by employing new technologies.
Something all our students want is to attend class when it's convenient for them.
So we're leveraging our network of multiple campuses as one.
If students don't find the class they want when they want it at their campus they'll be able to attend class virtually at another location at a time more convenient for them.
We're partnering with Cisco Systems to invent this new Connected Classroom learning experience.
Directional microphones telepresence video technology two-way interactive smartboards all combined so that students in multiple locations feel like they're in one combined section because they are.
This technology is unique to DeVry University and Cisco.
We've already piloted Connected Classroom and students love it.
Other new educational technologies include one that enables faculty to bring math concepts to life using graphing simulations and tablet-based handwriting recognition.
And we've invested in partnership with a leading business incubator based in Chicago and that's 1871 to launch our own incubator DV X Labs.
We're investing in these innovative technologies to ensure DeVry University is differentiated by the teaching and service experience we provide our students.
And this builds on our long tradition of innovation to make education more accessible to students with diverse needs and backgrounds.
And second through our programmatic focus we're ensuring each program's content and features are designed to best meet the needs of that program's students and employers and that we better communicate the value proposition of each program.
Our comprehensive review has identified programs where we have a strong position and can differentially invest such as Keller accounting technology and degree completion.
Where we're further along in this process we're seeing better results.
For example we've enhanced our focus on our Bachelor of Technical Management program for degree completers.
We saw positive growth in this program in March.
Third we'll improve the affordability of our programs.
Here we'll optimize our pricing and scholarships identify ways to help our students shorten the path to their degree and improve the communication of price and value through all the touch points that students have with DeVry University.
And fourth we deepen our employer relationships by providing a more integrated solution to help employers attract develop and retain the best talent.
We're bringing our career services and employer education capabilities together to create an integrated focused team that we call Workforce Solutions.
For Rite Aid we've created an online retail management associate degree program to power their high-potential employees to move into leadership roles.
DeVry University has a differentiated platform to build on here with very strong career services and continuing education partnerships with over 400 employers.
Increasingly we also see opportunities for DeVry University to leverage employer relationships that other DeVry Group institutions have as well.
At present we have about 4 000 students from leading employers such as Walmart Verizon JPMorgan Chase and Boeing.
We're taking these decisive actions to improve enrollments and to transform DeVry University for the ever-changing higher education market.
By restructuring the university's footprint we're generating the resources to differentially invest in the markets and programs where we have stronger competitive positions supported by our strong university brand.
And we're placing the institution on a path for growth by differentiating our teaching and service model enhancing affordability and deepening our employer relationships.
We're confident in this plan.
We have the right team in place some of the same leaders who oversaw the successful turnaround at Carrington.
In the past 12 months more than 36 000 students chose DeVry University to help them achieve their career goals.
Now that's a strong testament to the quality and value of our programs and a strong foundation on which we're building.
Many shareholders have told us that there's tremendous latent value to be unlocked at DeVry University as we return to growth.
We agree and are deeply committed to this plan and to realizing that academic and economic value.
While we're implementing this strategy at DeVry University we're equally committed to continued growth by diversification in our Healthcare International and Professional institutions.
At Chamberlain College of Nursing we experienced solid growth and invested in new campuses during the quarter.
Our new Las Vegas and Detroit area campuses had strong openings in January.
And we began accepting applications for our North Brunswick New Jersey campus which is a co-location with DeVry University.
This brings us to four new campuses for the year ahead of our original goal and 17 in total.
We continue to develop our pipeline of potential markets across the country and expect two to three new openings in fiscal 2016.
Now there's some analysis that's been written out there about the outlook for Nursing and it's very general and very broad.
Looking at the programs and students Chamberlain serves we believe the demand for nursing education is strong and growing.
Nursing continues to rank as the fastest growing job category among all health professions.
There's a significant supply-demand imbalance for nurses educated at the Bachelor's level and above.
The associate degree market for Nursing continues to grow as well which drives future demand for our RN to BSN program.
A recent study published by the Georgetown University Center in Education projects that the supply of nurses will fall short of the demand by about 200 000 by 2020.
There's an aging population and an expanded need for nurses with advanced degrees to provide primary care including changes emanating from the Affordable Care Act.
All of these factors lead us to believe the market for nursing is strong.
Let me move to DeVry Medical International and I realize our enrollment report last quarter was a bit below where we wanted it to be.
And I want you to know we're extremely focused on this.
We're feeling good about the progress we're making and we'd expect to have a better report card in the upcoming classes.
Actions the team is taking include a new marketing approach organizational changes to provide more focus and support to each of the medical schools and enhanced scholarships aimed at attracting high-quality applicants.
We've seen progress with an increased number of inquiries.
And we're confident these actions will improve our conversion rate as well and support our long-term target of low-single-digit enrollment growth.
I'm pleased to report that graduates of Ross University School of Medicine and American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine earned more than 1 050 residency positions at hospitals in the United States and Canada.
These new physicians will continue their training at prestigious institutions like the Cleveland Clinic in Florida Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City and Rush University Medical Center in Chicago among many others.
Excuse me I'm going to need to call on one of these doctors pretty soon if I don't get better from this cold.
At Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine we set a strategy to broaden our clinicals to hospitals outside the U.S.
to enrich our students' educational experience and to extend the capacity of our clinical network.
I can now report that students began taking clinicals in Australia this past quarter.
And later this year students will be able to take clinicals at partner institutions in Ireland.
At Carrington College revenue grew by nearly 3% during the quarter.
Carrington has now experienced four quarters in a row of growth which demonstrates our ability to set an institution back on the path for long-term growth.
And our diversification strategy is also paying off at our International and Professional Education Segment.
Brazil continues to face a slowing economy and has reduced government spending in the FIES student loan program.
So you may be wondering how are we doing there and what's the outlook? At DeVry Brasil revenue grew 39% and we reported record enrollments this quarter.
Given the conditions we think our organic enrollments may grow less than originally planned more like high-single-digit new student enrollment growth versus low teens but still leading to double-digit revenue growth with tuition increases and flowing through to corresponding earnings growth.
We recently completed our largest acquisition to date in Brazil Damsio Educacional.
Damsio is a leader in bar exam test preparation with a network of 220 learning centers throughout Brazil as well as a highly regarded law school.
This transaction opens a new growth opportunity for us namely to transplant programs via Damsio's network and it diversifies us further into non-FIES revenues.
By almost every measure academic results enrollment results student satisfaction colleague engagement we're on track to have our best year ever in Brazil.
And with that let me turn it over to Tim.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</strong> Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2015 revenue from continuing operations was $490 million.
Year-to-date revenue from continuing operations totaled $1.437 billion with all of our post-secondary institutions growing revenue except DeVry University.
Total costs from continuing operations for the quarter were $433 million up 1.6% from last year.
For the nine months costs excluding special items totaled $1.283 billion relatively flat to last year actually down 0.2%.
We reported net income of $47 million for the quarter and $110 million for the nine-month period.
This resulted in earnings per share of $0.72 for the quarter and $1.68 year-to-date.
Year-to-date net income from continuing operations and excluding special items was $125 million and earnings per share from continuing operations was $1.92.
Our effective income tax rate was 13.2% for the quarter and 13.7% year-to-date.
We expect that our effective income tax rate from operations for the fourth quarter will be in the 14% to 15% range.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue of $225 million was up 10% during the third quarter.
Segment revenue was up 13% in the first nine months driven by growth at Chamberlain and Carrington.
Operating income for the Medical and Healthcare segment in the quarter was $46 million representing an increase of 2.5% from the prior year excluding special items.
During the first nine months segment operating income grew 12% excluding special items.
This was driven by solid growth at Chamberlain and continued improvement at Carrington.
Chamberlain revenue grew 25% for the quarter.
New student enrollment grew 3.5%.
And total students grew more than 27% which is overlapping very strong post-licensure growth last year.
There continues to be strong demand for both our pre-licensure and post-licensure degree programs.
Given that demand we should end the year with more than $360 million of revenue up more than 25%.
Looking to fiscal 2016 we expect new student enrollment growth for the full year at Chamberlain to be in the range of 4% to 6% with total enrollment projected to grow in the mid teens.
You'll recall the larger percentage increases Chamberlain has experienced over the last several years so let me comment on the dynamics here.
First we do have the law of large numbers phenomenon taking place.
Second we're overlapping the introductions of two highly successful programs last year the Family Nurse Practitioner or FNP and Doctor of Nursing Practice or DNP.
These continue to have high demand but we've anniversaried through their initial startup phase.
And third demand has been so strong that we decided to cap new student enrollments in our FNP program for now to ensure we continue to meet clinical capacity needs.
Stepping back we expect mid-teens revenue and earnings growth for Chamberlain in fiscal 2016.
Carrington revenue grew 3% during the water and 2.5% in the first nine months.
In the quarter new students declined 2.7% and total students declined 1.5% as a result of fewer class starts this quarter versus the same period last year.
On a year-to-date basis new student enrollment grew 1.1% and total enrollment declined 0.5%.
Carrington was profitable at the institutional level for the quarter and for the nine-month period.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment revenue of $61 million increased 20% in the quarter.
For the first nine months segment revenue increased 13%.
At Becker revenue declined a little less than 1% during the quarter and 5.4% year-to-date.
The decrease was primarily the result of continued softness in the number of CPA exam candidates but we believe Becker declined less than the CPA market overall.
Revenue at DeVry Brasil grew nearly 39% in the quarter versus prior year.
The increase at DeVry Brasil was driven by organic growth and the acquisitions of FMF Faci and Damsio which joined our organization this fiscal year.
New student enrollments increased by more than 105% and total students grew nearly 78%.
Excluding these acquisitions new and total enrollment grew 13% and 14% respectively underscoring continued strong demand for post-secondary education in Brazil.
The segment's operating income was $4.6 million down $1.7 million reflecting revenue softness at Becker.
And finally within the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was down approximately 16% during the quarter and 13% for the first nine months.
This is a result of lower enrollments and lower undergraduate revenue per student which was down about 0.3% in the quarter.
The segment generated operating income of nearly $17 million for the first nine months compared with $27 million last year excluding special items.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect revenue for DeVry Group to decrease about 1% to 2% year-over-year with declining revenue at DeVry University offsetting revenue growth at our other institutions.
We expect operating costs to be up slightly versus prior year as a result of cost reductions at DeVry University being offset by new campuses at Chamberlain the recent acquisitions at DeVry Brasil and increase in DeVry University marketing all to support revenue growth.
The Gainful Employment regulations are set to become effective on July 1.
As most of you probably know the actual data that will be used to implement the regulations is not available until June 2016.
We're evaluating scenarios based on estimates and preliminary data.
So we can't say anything for sure at this point.
But looking at the information we have we estimate that under 10% of the programs across DeVry University and Carrington College are at risk to fail the test.
We've identified a number of actions we think can be taken to bring these programs into favorable territory within the time remaining to do so while maintaining quality and value to students.
Among the alternatives we're considering would be to increase our use of scholarships.
Were we to go that route we would estimate the cost to be in the $12 million range for fiscal 2016 and it would fall in the first quarter.
So while we've done our analysis and we're prepared we have yet to make final decisions about the alternatives under consideration as there are still pending events and data that could impact the final decision.
The points I want to emphasize here is that we're dealing with a limited number of programs we have time and we have options.
And we're confident no matter the outcome we'll maintain our strong record of compliance.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Thanks Tim.
And good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the first nine months of the year was $209 million.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $402 million at March 31 up from $397 million last year.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $150 million down 7% from the prior year as a result of lower revenues at DeVry University.
Year-to-date bad debt as a percentage of revenue was 2.8%.
Our capital spending for the first nine months was $64 million driven by investments in our Medical and Healthcare and International institutions to drive future growth.
We expect capital spending for the current fiscal year to be in the range of $95 million to $100 million which is lower than our original expectations as we continue to be an efficient user of our shareholders' capital.
Recently we entered into a new $400 million revolving credit agreement.
It has a five-year term and replaces our prior $400 million dollar credit facility at market-competitive rates.
And with that we welcomed two new banks to the agreement.
Our credit facility is a key element of our capital structure to provide access to resources to pursue growth opportunities.
We continued our cost reduction efforts during the quarter resulting in the recording of a $7 million pre-tax restructuring charge relating to workforce reductions and real estate optimization primarily at DeVry University.
As we move into the next phase of our strategy to transform DeVry University we expect to incur additional restructuring charges during the fourth quarter of this year and into fiscal 2016.
Overall our solid financial position and cash flow generation in the first nine months of the year gives us the continued financial flexibility to support our strategy of quality plus diversification plus long-term focus.
Now let me turn the call back over to Daniel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Pat.
And to wrap up we're taking aggressive action to improve DeVry University's performance.
By restructuring DeVry University's footprint we're generating the resources to differentially invest in the markets and programs where we have a strong position supported by the DeVry University's strong brand.
And we're placing the institution on a path for growth by differentiating our teaching and service model enhancing affordability and strengthening our employer workforce solutions.
We're confident that this strategy together with the sustained expansion of our Healthcare Professional and International institutions will drive ever-improved student outcomes and DeVry Group's future growth.
So with that we're eager to take your questions.
Joan? Thank you.
Amy I'd like to ask you if you'd please give the participants the instructions to ask a question.
But first I was to say in response to the feedback that we've received and in order to get to as many participants as possible we ask that everyone limit themselves to one question and perhaps a follow-up.
And if you have additional questions just please jump back into the queue.
Amy? Thank you.
Our first question comes from Sara Gubins at Merrill Lynch.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hello Sara.
Okay.
We'll move on to Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Amy is there a problem with the queue? I'm not sure.
It seems maybe they have their lines muted.
Mr.
Appert? Sorry can you hear me now? Yes please go ahead.
Okay sorry.
I was doing a Sara Gubins there for a second.
So Daniel I was hoping you could maybe give us a little more color on the impact of the campus closing.
So magnitude of the restructuring costs we should be anticipating and perhaps the level of savings you think you get from this.
And then finally how does it flow through from an enrollment standpoint? I would imagine there would be a fairly significant impact next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes you're right.
Let me take that last part first is that we're narrowing our focus to accelerate our progress.
So that's right.
And we think that's the way to go because these are the markets where we based on a research found we have the strongest competitive position.
In terms of the savings and financial impact...
Sure with respect to the savings currently Peter we're projecting about $125 million of expense savings in fiscal 2016 relative to FY 2015.
And we'd expect that savings to manifest itself about 50% from staffing 25% from marketing about 25% real estate and all other.
I think another part of your question was the anticipated restructuring.
We're still working through those details.
So we'll anticipate a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter depending on the timing somewhere in the magnitude of $7 million to $10 million and then continuing into next year FY 2016 still again working on that but somewhere probably in the $30 million range.
And then any...
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> One more  Peter it's Tim.
Just one more data point that might help you think about it.
We're trying to refocus the institution.
And while we do that we're striving to maintain positive economics at the segment level.
So one way to think about the revenue impact of these things is that we're trying to maintain this single-digit low-single-digit segment margin so you get a sense of if we're taking $125 million of cost out that's pretty close to what we expect the revenues to fall next year.
Okay but that is specifically for DeVry University or that's for DeVry Incorporated in total? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> That's DeVry University.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from Denny Galindo at Morgan Stanley.
Good afternoon guys.
I had a quick...
Good afternoon.
Yeah I wanted to delve a little bit more into the discounting.
You mentioned new scholarships at DeVry International and also as a potential lever to address Gainful Employment.
And I was curious do you think that other institutions will turn to discounting and scholarships to address their Gainful Employment issues and could it potentially impact more than just the 10% of programs that you think will be impacted and might a discounting program by competitors impact kind of some of your more safe programs? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Denny it's an interesting question.
And no I don't think that it would impact more.
It could because we don't have the final data.
We're using preliminary data and making our best judgments with the data that we have.
And again the decisions are not final because there's still events that could happen and data that can flow in.
But no it would just be limited to scholarships in that scenario to the programs that are affected and not to other programs.
And no I don't think that it presages sort of a broader implication in the area of pricing sort of industry-wide.
And then quickly on Brazil just the DeVry Brasil piece is getting a lot bigger between the organic and inorganic growth.
And maybe you could just give us an idea of the mix of starts now and the mix of enrollment on some of these various categories like online versus ground FIES mix any degree types that are kind of a bigger percentage than others.
Just a little bit more color on both the starts and the enrollment now at Brazil.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So most of the enrollments at DeVry Brasil are what you'd think of as on-site not online.
There's really three ways to think of it in Brazil not just on-site and online but really on-site distance learning and online.
In distance learning the difference there is it is a synchronous versus an asynchronous model.
And typically here in the U.S.
when we think about online we tend to think of it as an asynchronous concept.
So there in Brazil distance learning is typically where you have a live professor who's lecturing and then it's being broadcast out to multiple campuses.
And so the majority of the enrollments right now for DeVry Brasil are  and the majority of the revenues the majority of the activity is campus-based on-site programs.
But one of the growth opportunities that we're looking forward to seeing increasingly in the future is the distance learning and the online.
And in particular it's the distance learning through the Damsio network of about 220 locations and that's growing too the network will grow.
And as we transplant if you will use the term transplant programs into that network that distribution network if you will allow me to use that term that is also a growth opportunity for us.
Any color on the mix by degree type? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Mostly undergraduate graduate like MBA is very small for us.
So that's yet another growth opportunity for us in the future.
And again when we say undergraduate it's yet another sort of difference from the U.S.
to Brazil.
Medical school is considered undergraduate.
Law school is considered undergraduate.
So just note that programs that we in the United States might consider to be a graduate program there you do a five-year out-of-high school program and then you sit the bar exam and you'll become a lawyer.
So it is mostly undergraduate.
Thanks for taking my question.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Quick one more data point.
It's Tim I mentioned in my prepared remarks that the new student or total students grew 78%.
And so it probably won't surprise you to know that on a constant currency basis DeVry Brasil actually grew 78%.
So consistent with that total student growth but with the strong dollar and the currency movements in Brazil it was reduced to 39%.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah appreciate that question.
And that's good feedback for us to provide more color as we move forward.
And we'll try to do that.
So hopefully that was helpful for now.
Go ahead.
The next question comes from Paul Ginocchio at Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks.
It's Adrienne Colby for Paul.
You commented on positive inquiry and enrollment trends at DeVry Medical International for the May session.
I was wondering what percent of applications or enrollments for that May session are usually received by this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> For the May session we're fairly far along there.
So it's in the late stages of wrapping up.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And as a follow-up if you could just comment on what the Carrington enrollment percentage is for new and total for March excluding the lost session? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah we like to look at that on a year-to-date because the sessions they start at various times.
So it's not one particular session that has shifted.
It's a number of programs forward and back.
So on a year-to-date basis new students were up about 1.1%.
I think that's a good way to look at it from an overall comparable perspective.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So when you overlay mix on that as they adjust some programs teach out the revenues were up 3%.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Corey Greendale at First Analysis.
Hey good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Corey.
First I had a backward looking question which is at the time of your previous earnings call I think you said that applications for the March start at DeVry University were up year-over-year.
I know in no way did you guide to new students being up year-over-year for March but it sounded like things were trending in the right direction and then it didn't turn out that way.
Can you just give us sort of a post mortem what happened from...? Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Corey That's a very fair question.
And I can understand why you would ask that.
And you're right.
March results were a little bit disappointing.
What happened is early in the enrollment cycle we did see indicators that led us to believe that as the class came together the results would be better.
One example is the team did a great job invented a new self-service tool on the DeVry.edu website that garnered a lot of interest from students.
The students were excited we were excited.
However we found that the inquiries coming out of that new technology tool didn't translate into new enrollments at the rate that we expected.
So that's an example and among others of early indications that didn't translate to new enrollments as we thought that they would.
Okay but is there anything you can point to? I mean was it  did people push out their decision or are they out of the pipeline? Or just a little more on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I wouldn't say there's any real trend there.
So in essence we're sort of left with kind of more of the same.
It's just we had a little bit of a head-fake you might say in the early part of the cycle that was behind what we discussed last time we chatted.
Okay.
And then I had a more forward-looking strategic question.
So I understand you've done a great job of adjusting the cost structure to the enrollment level.
Sounds like you're going to continue doing that.
But specifically the decision to cut the marketing expense given marketing is sort of the food that feeds enrollment.
Just some  a little more on why you're making the decision to do that and how are you thinking strategically about the size of DeVry University? Are you just strategically aiming this to be a smaller institution? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No we're aiming for it to reset the institution to then regrow from this more focused footprint.
And over time I would see us growing again and adding focused local markets and adding locations over time.
But for right now in order to  strategically we made that decision as Tim mentioned earlier.
And we talked about before of aiming toward maintaining positive economics positive cash flow.
We see this opportunity and so it's narrowing our footprint to accelerate the progress to get back to growth.
In terms of marketing just given that lower size and trying to achieve the objective that I just mentioned the cost structure has to come down.
And that's across the board really in terms of facilities marketing course materials supplies everything travel and entertainment everything's got to come down.
Now as we do that and we employ this what we think is going to be a more efficient and more effective marketing strategy including the relaunch of the national brand and the programmatic focus and then that local focus we think we're going to become more effective and more efficient in the marketing function.
And as we see those opportunities if we see an opportunity to invest a little bit more in marketing on an efficient basis we'll certainly take it.
But we're just giving you the sense of the strategy as we see it today as we look into next year.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from Jeff Silber at BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks so much.
Wanted to focus on Chamberlain a bit.
Is it possible for you to break out what both new enrollment and total enrollment growth were on a same-school basis for us? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah.
For a same-school basis Jeff for this particular March session everything was the same in essence because it was a post-licensure enrollment period only so there were no new campus enrollments in this period.
Okay that's great to hear.
That's helpful.
But in just  and I know we're kind of looking at post-licensure and pre-licensure it's a kind of mixing apples and oranges here.
But it does look like we're starting to see growth slow a bit again excluding any impact from the new campuses.
I'm just wondering if you could provide any color for us on that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Go ahead Tim.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah.
One of the things that we talked about in my prepared remarks is seeing growth new student growth next year in the 4% to 6% range.
More of that will be coming from campuses as we open new campuses and have a couple new campuses that haven't anniversaried.
But we still expect the post-licensure programs to grow in the 5% to 6% range.
So yeah a bit of a slowing.
Part of that has to do with the significant growth we had by introducing the FNP and DNP.
We've  as I mentioned have capped the FNP program so...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> For now for now.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> So we maintain proper clinicals.
So we still see significant and reasonable growth from both the campus and the  the campus pre-licensure and post-licensure programs.
Okay.
And  I'm sorry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And when you sort of step back just to put a capstone on that for fiscal 2016 and you sort of add it all up all those factors taken together we're looking at revenue and earnings growth in the mid teens.
Okay that's helpful.
And then shifting gears to Brazil.
I think you brought your long-term forecast down a bit still very strong growth though.
I'm just wondering what was behind that decision.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we are just saying that given the environment that the economy is slowing down in Brazil and that the government needs to keep its fiscal house in order so there's budget cuts across the board.
They're not aimed just at education and just being concerned about perhaps FX risk.
You take all that together we're just saying as we put our plan together whereas without those factors we might have been planning for the teams.
We're just reducing that expectation for high-single-digit new student growth which is certainly  many people might say well that's still pretty good.
And then there's also tuition increases there.
So when you couple those together you're looking at double-digit revenue growth and corresponding earnings growth.
So still a very attractive endeavor.
But we're just trying to temper that a little bit and be realistic.
Perhaps we're being too conservative.
And certainly if there's opportunities to do better than that our team is very motivated and very focused on doing that because the growth in demand for education higher education in Brazil is very very strong.
And if you'll allow me to just touch on that just to remind everybody I'd say there's three main factors that have us bullish on Brazil.
The first is just the growth in college students driven in turn by the rising population growing middle class and college participation rates.
You put all those together and it's  ambient demand is very strong.
And we see that lasting for a long time.
Secondly the high return on education investment probably the highest in the world or one of the highest in the world for wages for a college graduate versus not in Brazil and third the positive regulatory environment.
There is a need for the private sector and in fact private sector represents over 50% of all college enrollments in Brazil.
So it remains very attractive.
We also have a nice pipeline of inorganic or acquisition-driven growth.
So we still  we think that Brazil is still very very attractive for us.
All right thanks so much.
The next question comes from Jeff Meuler at Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah thank you.
Roughly how big is the FNP enrollment and what is the process and the constraint to expanding clinical capacity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the  let me take that in reverse.
I'm not sure we break that out exactly in that way.
But it's just a matter of as we've had to do with clinical capacity at the pre-licensure level for the BSN program for this clinical master's program which is what the FNP is it continues to be an area that you just have to put focus on you have to have resources and we do.
We have a very focused clinical team.
We really built that up.
I think here scale is an advantage and Chamberlain reaching the scale that Tim talked about earlier really helps us in this regard.
Having deeper relationships with hospitals is an advantage.
And we think that having relationships that span across medical nursing and ancillary care as in Carrington educational programs is an advantage in forming clinical relationships as well and we're seeing more opportunities for us to have these sort of strategic relationships with hospitals where we're sort of a major partner for their medical education.
And it's not even just hospitals anymore.
You take a look at Walgreens the pharma retailer part of their growth is expanding those in-store clinics.
And so we struck a partnership with Walgreens to have our FNP students rotate for their clinical experience in the in-store clinic.
And then of course it's good for Walgreens because they get sort of an advanced look at potential new hires coming out of the pipeline.
So those are some of the factors that are in the mix when it comes to expanding the clinical network for Chamberlain.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> But what's the constraint? Are the existing hospitals and other partners telling you they don't want to add more slots? Are you not finding new partners as a competition in the market from other educational providers that are partnering with the healthcare system? Just what are the specific constraints? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Here with the  our self-imposed our decision to cap the FNP enrollments for now is really just based on  we've had so much demand and so much growth that we just want to be prudent and careful and make sure that we have all the support structure all of the advisers and to make sure that our students are getting the best possible clinical experience.
So that's really  it's our own judgment on that one.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then medical and healthcare given that it's one of your  or has been one of your growing institutions and it sounds like you expect it to be in 2016 this is the second quarter in a row where we've had a restructuring charge.
I'm not sure if that's in the Caribbean.
But why are you having restructuring charges in that business? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yeah that restructuring charge there in medical and healthcare was at Carrington as we continued to make some smaller real estate optimizations.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes exactly.
Not in the medical schools.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Jerry Herman at Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good afternoon everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hello Jerry.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Dan just wanted to  I noticed in your commentary you used to talk about quality plus diversification equals growth and now I think you're talking about long-term focus is I think the way you put it.
I guess the question is when do you expect some of the initiatives at DeVry University to manifest in growth? It doesn't appear it's going to be in 2016 but how long should it take? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Well of course you know we don't give enrollment guidance but we do hope to see faster growth in these markets where we're differentially investing Jerry.
And that's really an important part of decisive actions that are in today's announcement.
It's to narrow that focus and accelerate our progress.
The reason that we've added that long-term focus to our growth strategy so it's quality plus diversification plus long-term focus is  and it's really always been there and we've talked about our strategy internally.
We just wanted to share that with all of our stakeholders.
It's this notion that this formula and this endeavor of higher education really works and really only works with a long-term focus.
So I know we're reporting our quarterly results today.
But believe me we're making decisions with a much longer timeframe than any given quarter.
So we're focusing  that includes investments in our infrastructure investments in strategic capabilities like our DeVry Group Care the care and support that we provide our students.
All of those sorts of capabilities.
Educational technology this investment in DV X Labs that I mentioned where we partnered with Chicago's 1871 to create an EdTech incubator.
These are all the kinds of activities that I have in mind when I say long-term focus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then one for you Tim if I can just by way of follow-up.
You mentioned that your expectation is a $125 million decline in revenue at DeVry University and likewise an offsetting $125 million reduction in cost which suggests sort of flat OI year-over-year.
But you will be well above positive economics this year.
Can you just maybe clarify that or help me with that? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Yes I mean I wasn't trying to be that precise.
We're going to have a segment margin in BTM of 2% for the year.
So when you start talking about 2% on that kind of revenue we're just trying to give you some idea directionally that we don't have a lot of room to degrade that margin and maintain positive territory.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great thanks guys.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Thanks.
The next question is from Sara Gubins at Merrill Lynch.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is David Chu for Sara Gubins.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh boy Sara she really doesn't want to be on the call today.
So...
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> No.
No.
It was me earlier as well.
So I'm not really sure what happened.
I apologize.
So sorry if you answered this already but first of all the 2% segment margins is that for fiscal 2015 or 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> 2015.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> 2015.
Okay.
And could you comment on margin expectations for the other two segments in fiscal 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Solidly positive.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> I mean should we expect the margins to be up or is that something you commented to earlier? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we've not commented on that.
We'll have more insight for you on our year-end call.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And one more question  so when will you shut down the 14 campuses at DeVry U? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah go ahead.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> That will occur over a period of time and the significant majority of those  their last session where we'll teach will be the session that starts in November of 2015 so ending right at year-end.
Some will go a little bit longer than that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah typically it's a six-month process.
But one thing I can assure you no matter how long it takes we'll take care of our students.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Do you think this will actually have like a short-term kind of negative impact on start trends? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It could.
Yes it could.
And one of the things that we'll probably need to do is give you a little bit of explanation as we roll forward of that same equivalent location concept that somebody was asking about regarding Chamberlain.
So but when taken as a whole yes it's going to have a negative impact in the near term.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Denny Galindo at Morgan Stanley.
Hi there.
I just had one more.
I was trying to keep it only to two earlier.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you for that.
Yeah.
On the industry it seems like the industry has just gotten more competitive  I'm talking more about DeVry U here.
It's gotten a little bit more competitive this year.
I think others had seen their starts decline as well.
And is there anything you can comment about why maybe the industry is seeing these issues this particular year? Have the discounts that have been put in place stopped working? Are leads now of a lower quality? Is the conversion rate dropping? Is there anything else that seems to be happening industry wide that's causing some of the start numbers across the industry to be down? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Denny.
It's true.
I think we're in a period here of cyclical weakness.
It seems like a long cycle but it is particularly having an impact  it's having an across higher education but particularly it appears to be impacting the segment of the population that's in the middle or the lower income strata.
Many of these prospective students even though many other people have seen maybe getting jobs but they're not and they're lacking confidence in the job market.
They're a little hesitant to make that commitment to make that investment.
And we're seeing that not just in private sector institutions.
We're seeing that in community colleges and in other four-year institutions at the independents and public sector as well.
So it is a we think a near-term factor.
And as we move along some of the reasons that give us optimism for maybe the mid-term as well as the long term is we do start to see consumer confidence coming back slowly but starting to see that.
And then the other is just this recognition and research shows that there's over 30 million people who in the last couple of decades enrolled in college but they left without completing.
And we serve those students very very well.
So for DeVry University that's an example of an opportunity.
The other thing that helps us is this diversification strategy that really gives us the resources to continue to invest even though at DeVry University we're down right now we're going to continue to invest in this strategy we've got a lot of confidence in it and get this turned around.
Okay sounds good.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
The next question comes from Jeff Meuler at Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I just first want to ask a follow-up on that last point.
Can you just help me understand your case that this is cyclical? And if it's cyclical I guess why enact a big transformation at DeVry University? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Because we're committed to maintaining positive economics here in the near term.
Also we found based on this deep dive research that our team did and with some outside help that these markets that we're focusing on are those where we really do have the strongest competitive position that right to win that sometimes people talk about.
And so we're doubling down and focusing on the markets and on the programs where we have that competitive right to win.
We just think that that's the most efficient way to serve our students.
It's the most efficient way to deploy our fellow owners' capital.
So that's the near term.
But I do think that it is cyclical in that in other words it's not seminal.
It's not that college is just going to go away and go down forever.
So even though we've seen enrollments in the United States go down among working adults do we think that goes down forever? No.
So I think it's cyclical it's not seminal.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So what are you watching for the inflection in terms of cyclical indicators? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we're certainly watching the consumer confidence figures.
We watch the employment and unemployment and all those kinds of macros.
And then internally we look at our own  the inquiries we get from prospective students.
We look at the conversion of those inquiries to an application.
And what's interesting is right now the team is doing a very good job when someone does inquire with DeVry University Keller Graduate School of Management of the process of moving them along to apply.
So in other words when someone expresses interest and engages with us or visits one of our campuses those prospective students are liking what they see at a greater rate than they were the year before.
That's very encouraging for us.
We know we have a strong value proposition.
We do need a little bit more at the top end of that process.
So that's what we're looking for.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay and then one more from me.
Of the 20% of campuses that you're moving to online-only for DVU can you provide us with a sense of how many students were at those campuses either exclusively on ground or predominantly on ground? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah in general I would say that it's many if not the majority of the course taking behavior in those campuses is already happening online.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah I guess but so it's 20% of campuses but I'm guessing they're smaller campuses.
So roughly what percent of DVU students is it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and I don't have that figure at hand.
I'm not sure we're  but we can sort of certainly follow up.
But you're on to the right track there that it should have sort of that disproportionate impact but give us the  free up the resources from the infrastructure and so forth that allow us to differentially invest in the remaining 60-plus campuses where we're focusing.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay thank you Daniel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio at Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi I just had a follow-up.
If you could comment at all on the FTC investigation if there are any milestones coming up or anything else that can help us understand the timeline.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No no real milestones there.
We're certainly fully cooperating with the folks over there and having dialogues with the staff.
And our intent is to show them the quality of our processes and that the investigation should come to its logical close.
So we just point you to our other disclosures and that's about all we have to say about the matter right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Okay well that's going to do it for us today.
We'd like to thank everyone for your questions.
Our next results call is scheduled for August 18 when we'll announce our fiscal 2015 fourth quarter and year-end results.
Thank you for your continued support of DeVry Education Group.
Good day and welcome to the Q4 and Year End DeVry Education Group Results Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Ms.
Joan Walter Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Walter the floor is yours ma'am.
Thank you Mike and good afternoon everyone.
With me today from DeVry Education Group's leadership team are Daniel Hamburger President and Chief Executive Officer; Tim Wiggins our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Unzicker our Chief Accounting Officer.
I'd like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements with respect to the future performance and financial condition of DeVry Education Group that involves risks and uncertainties.
Various factors could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied.
These factors are discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Quarterly Reports and Form 10-K for fiscal 2014 filed with the SEC and available on our website at www.devryeducationgroup.com.
DeVry Group disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Additionally during the call we may refer to non-GAAP financial measures which are intended to supplement but not substitute for our most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our press release which contains the financial and other quantitative information to be discussed today as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is also available on our website.
Telephone and webcast replays of today's call are available until September 15.
To access the replays please refer to today's press release for information.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Daniel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Joan and thank you all very much for joining us today.
As we reflect on fiscal 2015 DeVry Education Group continued to grow postsecondary enrollments driven by our diversification into healthcare and international institutions while making progress in repositioning DeVry University.
DeVry Group has the right strategy which is quality plus diversification plus long-term focus.
On our call today I'll provide an update across institutions and then Pat will walk through the numbers and then I'll conclude with some thoughts on why we're confident that despite near-term challenges we believe that our five-year strategic plan positions us to deliver strong student outcomes attractive growth and significant value creations.
So let me begin the operations review by saying that we were disappointed with our fourth quarter earnings.
Softer enrollments at DeVry University currency impact in Brazil and a higher tax rate due to the mix of our domestic and international earnings these were all contributing factors.
At the same time we're no less confident in the future of DeVry Group here's why.
We see tremendous value to be unlocked at DeVry University once we complete its transformation.
At DeVry Medical International we took actions in fiscal 2015 to return to new student growth.
While the rate of growth slowed at Chamberlain in 2015 remember we're overlapping the introduction of two highly successful programs last year and for fiscal 2016 we expect total enrollment growth in the mid-teens.
And even though we're seeing some challenges with the economy in Brazil we're confident in the long-term prospects for growth given the growing middle class low college participation rate and the quality of our programs.
And so even with the challenges at DeVry University we're taking a proactive approach to managing our expense structure.
We made good on our pledge to maintain positive economics as we work to reposition the University.
So now let's take a look at our segments starting with Medical and Healthcare.
These institutions have been a primary contributor to our diversification and growth strategy and witnessed a steady upward trend over the last few years.
In fiscal 2015 the segment grew nearly 12%.
We believe that strong trends in healthcare bode well for future growth.
Our Medical and Healthcare segment is now our largest.
In fiscal 2015 it represented 45% of our revenue more than 75% of our operating income excluding special charges.
Our strategy for Chamberlain includes opening two to three new campuses per year and deepening our partnerships with over 600 major hospitals and provider systems.
In fiscal 2015 we opened four new campuses exceeding our goal.
These included Pearland Texas; Troy Michigan; Las Vegas Nevada; and North Brunswick New Jersey.
We are pleased with the initial success at all four of these new campuses and each one exceeded our enrollment expectations.
As we look forward to 2016 we expect to open three new campuses for which we have already received approvals for two.
We plan to open an Irving Texas campus in September and a Charlotte North Carolina location in January.
We are currently seeking approval for a campus in Sacramento California.
As many of you are aware we had strong response to our Family Nurse Practitioner program the FNP.
The response was so successful that we utilized clinical capacity earlier than planned.
So now I'm glad to report that we made progress in addressing this bottleneck and we are looking forward to continued growth in serving this strong market need for FNPs.
We believe the demand for nursing education is growing driven by supply and demand imbalances for nurses educated at the bachelor's level and above.
The associate degree market for nursing continues to grow as well which helps Carrington and drives future demand for our RN to BSN program.
There's an aging population and expanded need for nurses with advanced degrees to provide primary care.
These are all factors driving nursing growth.
Moving on to DeVry Medical International and what we've been doing to improve student recruiting.
We've made organizational changes and operational improvements to the recruiting process.
We have done a better job at brand positioning as well.
Let me emphasize AUC and Ross have strong brands however we've needed to make adjustments to respond to changing market conditions.
For example we've been more aggressive in our use of social media and digital channels to drive better attendance and conversion for our information seminars.
DMI had strong academic results to report this quarter as well.
In this year's residency match AUC and Ross Med had the highest total residency placement in our history 1 075.
Our two-year match rates at these institutions for 2013 and 2014 grads were 87% and 89% respectively.
We are confident these medical schools will continue to attract students as long as they achieve this kind of academic success.
So the strategy is working and we're pleased to report new student growth of 11% and that our improvements are positioning us for growth in our September class.
So finally in this segment Carrington College.
A highlight of fiscal 2015 was consolidating our two institutions into one Carrington College and standardizing programs across our network of 18 campuses.
This was part of executing the turnaround strategy that enabled us to grow revenues in a difficult market improve our operating results and return to positive economics at the institutional level.
We are now shifting from turnaround to growth mode and the Carrington team is focused on several growth opportunities.
For example we just launched a hybrid onsite and online pilot within the Dental Assisting certificate program.
Also Carrington recently started enrolling students for new fully online programs such as Medical Administrative Assistant.
These are being offered a certificate with a degree completion option.
Moving on to our International and Professional Education segment.
The three acquisitions we completed in Brazil during fiscal 2015 FMF FACI and Damsio contributed to our solid growth.
By almost every measure academic results enrollment results student satisfaction colleague engagement we had our best year ever in Brazil.
You may be wondering how changes to the PS student loan program may impact our enrollments.
For context consider that for most of our history the majority of our revenues have been from students who self-pay.
PS was only first introduced in 2009 and didn't get into full swing until 2011.
In recent years PS has come to represent just about one-third of our revenues and we've been proactive about managing the PS level including making diversifying acquisitions such as Damsio which has small exposure to PS.
Even with the changes we still think we can grow our new enrollments organically in fiscal 2016 about flat in the first half of the year and most of the growth with the second half's larger class.
We expect revenue growth north of the 20% range in local currency and beyond organic growth we have proven to be an effective acquirer and continue to develop a strong pipeline of high quality acquisitions.
At Becker Professional Education we've begun to see headwinds shift to small tailwinds in our core CPA program overcoming the past few quarters' shortfalls.
While the number of CPA test takers was down in the market overall our fiscal year enrollment was up 5%.
We expect to see growth continue in the future.
Quality is strategy number one for DeVry Group and Becker CPA exemplifies this strategy.
Last year more than 90 000 people took the CPA exam and of those 90 000 candidates only 59 were awarded the prestigious Elijah Watt Sells Award.
Of those 59 53 prepared with Becker's CPA Exam Review.
Since 2005 more than 90% of Watt Sells Award winners prepared with Becker.
Now lastly I'd like to walk you through the progress of our transformation strategy at DeVry University.
As announced last quarter the strategy comprises both urgent near-term actions to improve our results and maintain positive economics and transformational investments to increase our competitiveness and differentiation over the long-term.
I think the team has done an excellent job of executing on the near-term strategies.
We're moving 14 locations to an online-only model and this reduction of our campus footprint is freeing up significant resources to differentially invest in the remaining local markets.
We're reducing our cost structure in other areas as well.
For example even as we increase spend in those local markets we'll reduce overall marketing spend by about $35 million.
In total we project more than $125 million in reduced cost structure in fiscal 2016.
And we've relaunched the DeVry University brand.
Our new communications campaign emphasizes how DeVry University is Different.
On Purpose.
We're emphasizing what DeVry University is known for which is careers and care.
Several of the investors I've spoken with have commented on our Different.
On Purpose campaign.
While it was just launched in July we're seeing very early signs of success.
For the last couple of years we've seen brand awareness indicators flipping but with the launch of this campaign we've now seen an uptick in both brand recognition and memorability.
So we're encouraged by the early results of the combination of our programmatic and local focus supported by our strong brand.
Having executed on these significant near-term aspects of the turnaround plan now our focus is squarely on executing our strategies to transform DeVry University.
Here we're differentiating our teaching and service model.
As an example of that students tell us they want to attend class when it's convenient for them and many attend online for the schedule flexibility.
Yet online is mainly asynchronous and students also want more connection with their professor and with their fellow students.
So what if you could combine schedule flexibility across dozens of campuses with real-time connection? This is the insight that led us to partner with Cisco to invent a new Connected Classroom learning experience.
Directional microphones telepresence video technology two-way interactive smartboards all combining so that students in multiple locations feel connected.
The student experience is far beyond prior generations of video-enabled classrooms.
I'm pleased with how our team is applying technology in new and innovative ways and they are excited to show you this differentiating technology live at our upcoming Investor Day.
Through our programmatic focus we're ensuring each program is designed to best meet the needs of that program's students and employers and that we better communicate the value proposition of each program.
Where we're further along in this process we're seeing better results.
We identified an area of strength in healthcare information and added a new certificate program in Medical Billing and Coding alongside our Associates in Health Information Technology.
The program is stackable allowing students to seamlessly continue with their Associates degree.
In addition the program is more affordable with lower tuition and a complimentary course built in.
In May and July combined we enrolled more than 700 new students into this program.
We also remain intently focused on further strengthening our workforce solutions partnerships with America's leading employers.
At present we have more than 7 300 students from leading organizations like Comcast Best Buy Target AT&amp;T.
So in sum we're taking these actions to maintain positive segment economics and to transform DeVry University for the future.
By restructuring the University's footprint we're more focused on the markets and programs where we have the strongest competitive position supported by a strong university brand.
And we're placing the institution on a path for growth by differentiating our teaching and service model enhancing and launching new programs and deepening our employer relationships.
We have the right strategy and the right team in place some of the same leaders who oversaw the successful turnaround at Carrington.
Many shareholders have told us there's tremendous value to be unlocked at DeVry University as we return to growth.
We agree and we're deeply committed to realizing that academic and economic value.
So with that review of the operations let me turn it over to Tim.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</strong> Thanks Daniel and good afternoon everyone.
I'll start with an overall view of the financial results then go through our reporting segments.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 revenue from continuing operations declined 2.5% to $473 million.
For the full year revenue from continuing operations decreased by approximately $13 million or 0.7% to $1.910 billion.
The decrease was driven by the continued decline in enrollment at DeVry University and weakness in the Brazilian reais as compared to the U.S.
dollar.
This was partially offset by growth in our medical and healthcare institutions.
Note that without the currency impact total revenue in the fourth quarter would've been up nearly 2% and would have grown 1% for the full year.
Total cost from continuing operations excluding special charges for the fourth quarter were $425 million down 0.2% from last year.
For the full year cost excluding special items totaled $1.708 billion down 0.2% compared to last year.
We reported GAAP net income of $29.9 million for the fourth quarter and $139.9 million for the full year.
This resulted in diluted GAAP earnings per share of $0.46 for the quarter and $2.14 for the full year.
Net income from continuing operations and excluding special items was $37.2 million during the fourth quarter which resulted in earnings per share from continuing operations and excluding special items of $0.57.
For the full year net income from continuing operations and excluding special items was $162.4 million resulted in diluted earnings per share of $2.49.
Our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 5.9% for the quarter and 12.1% for the full year.
Our non-GAAP tax rate excluding special charges was 19.1% for the fourth quarter and 17.7% for the full year higher than we'd expected due to the mix of domestic and international earnings.
With that overview let's now shift to our operating segment results.
Starting with the Medical and Healthcare segment revenue of $214.1 million was up 8% during the fourth quarter.
Segment revenue was up 11.7% for the full year to $859.5 million driven by growth across the segment led by Chamberlain.
Operating income excluding special items for this segment in the quarter was $31.2 million representing a decrease of 10.3% from the prior year.
The decrease reflects the significant investments we made to expand Chamberlain's campus footprint.
For the full year segment operating income grew 6.6% to $153.4 million.
Chamberlain revenue grew almost 21% for the quarter.
In May new student enrollment grew 2% and total students grew almost 22%.
For July new students grew 5.5% and total students grew nearly 24%.
This is on top of very strong post-licensure growth in both sessions last year.
Looking to fiscal 2016 we expect mid-teens growth in total enrollment revenue and earnings for Chamberlain.
Carrington revenue grew almost 1% during the quarter and just over 2% for the full year.
Carrington reduced total expenses by 4% for the year.
In the quarter new students grew by nearly 57% as a result of an extra start at the end of the fourth quarter.
Total students increased by 2%.
On a full-year basis new student enrollment grew 12.8% and total enrollment grew 0.2%.
Carrington achieved positive economics at the institutional level for each quarter of the year and I'm really proud of the hard work by Team Carrington this year.
Turning to the International and Professional Education segment revenue of $83.3 million increased 15.5% in the quarter.
For the full year segment revenue increased 13.5% to $258.8 million.
The decline in the Brazilian reais as compared to the U.S.
dollar reduced our reported revenues.
Without this currency effect revenue for our International and Professional Education segment would've grown 43% in the fourth quarter and 29% for the full year.
The segment's operating income excluding special items was $18.8 million during the quarter down $1.7 million reflecting the impact of foreign currency in Brazil and the increased investments.
For the full year operating income excluding special items decreased 9.9% or $4.2 million to $38.7 million primarily reflecting impacts of currency.
Without the impact of currency segment operating income would have grown 12% in the quarter and 7% for the full year.
At Becker revenue increased 3.1% in the quarter but declined 2.9% for the full year.
The full year decline reflects the result of softness early in the year due to lower numbers of CPA Exam candidates a trend which has since started to abate as we picked up momentum in the back half of the year.
Revenue at DeVry Brasil grew 24% in the quarter and almost 27% for the full year.
The increase at DeVry Brasil was driven both by the acquisitions of FMF FACI and Damsio as well as organic enrollment growth.
Within the Business Technology and Management segment revenue was down 18.3% to $176.4 million during the quarter driven by continued declines in the May session at DeVry University.
For the full year revenue declined 14.6% $794.2 million.
In July on a same-campus basis new student enrollments declined 13% and total students declined 8.7%.
As Daniel mentioned we're transitioning from our prior national marketing strategy to a new local market focus and at the same time reducing our campus footprint by 25%.
These are big changes.
While the local marketing program gains traction and we transition through the teach-outs we expect that near-term new student enrollments would be under even greater pressure.
As a result we continue to focus on reducing our cost structure and we're on track to achieve our target of at least $125 million in cost savings in 2016.
We remain committed to maintaining positive segment economics for fiscal 2016.
The segment recorded an operating loss of $1.9 million for the seasonally weak quarter excluding special items.
The loss reflects lower enrollments and an increase in marketing spend versus prior year to support the transformation strategy.
For the full year operating income declined $15.6 million to $14.9 million excluding special items while generating $55 million in free cash flow.
The team did a good job of controlling expenses exceeding the cost reduction target of $100 million for the year.
For every dollar of lost revenue in fiscal 2015 we were able to recover $0.87 in cost reductions.
Now turning to the outlook for the first quarter in fiscal 2016 we expect first quarter revenue to decrease about 5%.
The decrease is a result of continued weakness in the Brazilian reais and declining revenue at DeVry University which offsets revenue growth at all our other institutions.
We expect operating costs to be down 2% to 3% versus prior year as a result of cost reductions at DeVry University offset somewhat by growth investments.
These investments include new campuses at Chamberlain and recent acquisitions in Brazil.
For the full year revenue is expected to be down about 5% and earnings before special items to be flat to slightly up year-over-year.
We expect our effective income tax rate from operations will be 18% to 19% before special items.
As most of you know gainful employment regulations became effective July 1.
Last quarter we spoke about the options we had for addressing any programs that might not pass the test.
We continue to refine our analysis and action plans and have now reduced the estimated revenue impact from the $12 million we mentioned previously to a $5 million to $6 million range.
We expect the impact to be about $4 million in the first quarter.
I'll now turn the call over to Pat to talk more about our balance sheet and financial position.
Pat? Well thanks Tim and good afternoon everyone.
Cash flow from operations for the year was $203 million.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $353 million at June 30 down slightly from last year.
Our net accounts receivable balance was $139.2 million up about 5% from the prior year primarily due to the impact of extended payments from our PS program in Brazil.
Our bad debt as a percentage of revenue is lower than most and for the year we brought it down further to 2.5% compared to 2.7% last year.
Our capital spending for the full year was $88.7 million an increase of $9.4 million with 90% invested in our medical and healthcare and international institutions.
The third tenet of the DeVry Group strategy is long-term focus and we will continue to invest our owners' capital for the long term in infrastructure to support our academic quality and diversification strategies.
Now we're targeting to keep our capital spending for fiscal year 2016 to be about flat roughly in the range of $90 million.
We continued our cost reduction efforts during the fourth quarter resulting in a $12.4 million pre-tax restructuring charge relating to workforce reductions and real estate optimization primarily at DeVry University.
We also recorded a $1.8 million pre-tax charge related to Becker's Eastern European and Russian operations.
We expect to incur additional restructuring charges in fiscal year 2016 as we continue to execute our transformation strategy for DeVry University.
During the fiscal year we returned approximately $50 million to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends.
We repurchased 220 000 shares during the fourth quarter at an average price of $32.88.
This share repurchase activity represents an approximate 20% increase sequentially.
We are confident that our strong financial position and cash flow generation during fiscal year 2015 will give us the flexibility to support our strategy and we look forward to providing you with more detail at our Investor Day.
Now let met turn the call back over to Daniel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Pat.
As we look back at the fourth quarter and the full year of fiscal 2015 we're pleased to see improvements in several areas: Chamberlain enrollments particularly FNP DeVry Medical International enrollments Carrington College reaching positive economics DeVry University showing early indicators of success in local and programmatic focus DeVry Brasil completing three acquisitions and Becker enrollment picking up the pace as we enter fiscal 2016.
So as we see the trends in healthcare professional and international continuing to produce growth we feel good that we have the right plan at DeVry University and all the hard work is going to pay off.
Before opening up the call to your questions I'd like to provide some additional comments regarding our upcoming Investor Day next month which will be held on Wednesday September 16 at the Chicago campus of Chamberlain College of Nursing and DeVry University.
We think that the time is right to host an Investor Day because we're growing increasingly confident in the growth and value creation potential of DeVry Group and we want to share our confidence with you and give you the opportunity to hear that in more depth and from more of our management team.
We recognize that the last few years have been challenging.
At the same time we've continued to build a stronger more diversified DeVry Group.
While that journey still has remaining steps we're confident that our hard work and our strategic plan position the organization for growth.
We recently updated our five-year strategic plan out to 2020.
To summarize our strategy is quality plus diversification plus long-term focus equals growth.
Quality is strategy number one and students are attracted to a nursing college with great NCLEX results a university with excellent employment outcomes medical schools with terrific results on the medical boards and so forth.
Our diversification in healthcare professional and international education has positioned us as one of the strongest organizations in our industry and we're investing for the long term in organic growth in core capabilities such as our workforce solutions to build closer relationships with our hundreds of employers and in continuing to build DeVry Group's culture of care.
Looking out to 2020 we're also excited about the economics of executing this plan.
Continued growth in both Medical and Healthcare and our Professional and International segments combined with stabilization and very modest growth expectations for DeVry University should generate solid future growth and leverage.
And for DeVry Group as a whole we believe we can achieve organic revenue growth in the mid-single-digit range and EBITDA growth in the low teens range over this five-year planning horizon.
We're looking forward to sharing deeper detail for that vision at a segment and an institutional level at our Investor Day next month and we hope to see many of you there.
So with that we're eager to take your questions.
Joan? Thank you.
I'd like to ask Mike if you could please give participants the instructions to ask a question.
And let me just say that in response to feedback we've received and in order to get to as many of your questions as possible we ask that everyone limit themselves to one question and perhaps a follow up.
And if you have additional questions just please jump back into the queue.
Mike? Thank you ma'am.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
At this time we will just pause momentarily to assemble our roster.
The first question we have comes from Denny Galindo of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Denny.
Thanks for taking my question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Yes first one on guidance just a little clarification there.
Could you give us an idea of what you're expecting from DeVry University for that full-year down 5% revenue? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Sure Denny it's Tim.
One of the places to go to get some sense of that without providing specific institutional guidance is the $125 million of expense reduction the minimum and I would overlay that with our goal to maintain positive segment economics.
So we had a $15 million segment margin there.
I think that margin will be down this year but we're still very much focused on making it positive.
So it gives you a sense of the kind of revenue decline that we're expecting at DeVry University.
Okay.
Because most of that expense would come straight out of DeVry University is what you're saying.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Exactly.
That $125 million is DeVry University.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then shifting gears on gainful employment you did mention that were some gainful employment adjustments you made.
I think most people think of that as meaning DeVry University but we've recently had some questions on the impact in DeVry International Medical in terms of gainful employment.
And I was wondering if you could give us a little background on maybe what the average student is taking out in terms of debt what their income is and if there's going to be any gainful employment impact on that DeVry International Medical piece.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
And I don't have the figures for debt per student from DeVry Medical International in front of me.
But I would say that we do have more of a focus on the vet school than the medical schools and interestingly when you step back it's kind of an example where the regulation doesn't fit and has unintended consequences on a high-quality program like Ross Vet where we have fantastic student outcomes employment outcomes student loan default rate many years is close to zero or even some years is zero.
And so given this fundamental value we think there are solutions here.
And I would also point out that the first set of so-called gainful employment measures are not scheduled to be published until January 2017 and then any consequence of that if there is any wouldn't be until January of 2018.
And so the bottom line is we've got time and we've got options and we're in the process of analyzing all those options and we'll keep you posted.
But most of it does seem like the vet is the only place there might be some adjustments at this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The other place was some programs at DeVry University in Carrington and last time we spoke we had talked about a $12 million range for mostly student tuition grants and those impact revenues not an expense line.
That's a little bit of what's behind the revenue commentary.
But we've taken that down now to the $5 million or $6 million range and we've got new data new information on how that's going to be rolled out which enabled us to update that and find some solutions which take that number down from what was $12 million now to only $5 million or $6 million.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Next we have Sara Gubins Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Sara.
On a same-campus basis for DeVry University the release mentioned that new starts were down 13% in July and total enrollment was down a little less than 9%.
Is that similar to recent patterns when you exclude those 14 campuses that you're shutting or has it either been improving or getting worse? And could you talk to us about how underlying retention is trending? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Well let's see taking that in terms of retention I think retention has been  give me one second here.
Yes over the last couple of sessions here  make sure I get this  here we go session to session undergraduate persistence was improved in July.
If you measure over the last say trailing six sessions it was down slightly.
So better in the last  the run rate in the last period.
And I would say that persistence is a very important part of the transformation strategy for DeVry University.
We think we have strong opportunity here.
And a lot of the transformation projects that we've been talking about are aimed very squarely at improving student persistence things like a new faculty advising model.
And the teaching and learning model that I mentioned the Connected Classroom that provides better schedule availability and helps students get the course they want when they want it which is one of the underlying drivers of persistence.
So we expect to see improvements based on that investment.
In terms of the other  I think it's just we don't have enough data Sara to really give you a sense.
It's going to be choppy here.
I think what we're looking at is really a shift from what was more of a national strategy national marketing strategy to much more of a local media investment.
And so you've got those lines are shifting around.
But it takes time to build the local based on the pilots that we've done.
And so it will be a little while I think before those lines cross and it's early here.
As you heard Tim mention for September we expect that we'll be sequentially worse while we expect the teach outs to anniversary the local marketing to then kick in.
So it's more of a back half of the year where we expect to see that improvement.
Okay great.
And just quickly the 14 campuses that you're closing have those now been closed? Are you starting to see the impact? I'm guessing yes given that you gave us the same campus basis.
And I think if that's correct you had talked about thinking that the majority of those students might stay as they  might shift online.
I'm wondering if you've seen that.
Sure Sara.
So we are in the process of closing those markets.
So there's 14 markets where we're going to serve through a online presence only and about another six campuses where we're still going to be in the market with a physical presence but consolidating within that market.
So when it's all said and done we'll reduce our campus footprint by about 25% going from about 80 plus campuses today down to around 60 or so.
With respect to those markets where we'll be serving either online-only or consolidating we've ended admitting new students to those on-site locations so that's where we're going to see some of that choppiness that both Tim and Daniel have expressed.
And then in terms of cost student transference and students where we are closing students certainly have an option and we're encouraging them to complete their degree with DeVry University through online and those transference rates are at our expectations.
Thank you.
Next we have Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Just a follow up from Sara's question.
What percentage of the enrollment are those 20 campuses that you're talking about? It's about 11% of our total student enrollments at DeVry University.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just on Brazil you talked about it growing 20% in local currency next year.
How many points of that is organic versus acquired? Thank you.
For this year anyways the growth rate is about two-thirds was acquisition and one-third organic.
That will start to moderate out as we move into next year because we'll be anniversarying FMF which we acquired October 1 and of course FACI January 1 and Damsio February 1.
So that'll probably shift out to be about 50/50 for the first half of this year and then obviously by January 1 or February 1 we'll keep completely anniversary those acquisitions.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Peter Appert Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
So Tim you mentioned I think it was $35 million in marketing save out of the $125 million.
Can you give us any color on the other components of that? I'm asking this in the context of trying to understand if you have any flexibility to dial that up or down depending on how the enrollment numbers are going.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> I'll let Pat answer the first part and then I'll give you a sense of dial up dial down.
Peter of the $125 million projected expense reduction within DeVry University for fiscal 2016 about half of that will come through staffing a quarter through marketing which is $35 million that Tim referenced and Daniel and then the remaining quarter through real estate and other.
Thank you.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong>  So Peter some of the expenses obviously vary with enrollments.
And so for disappointed enrollments we'll see some benefit there but then we will go back to the drawing board if we're disappointed in the enrollments and look at our campus footprint again look at our marketing spend.
We kind of go back.
We do believe there's additional opportunity if we have to to make additional cuts there.
And we've got this target of maintaining positive segment economics both operating income and cash flow.
We've got a bit more room on the cash flow.
I mentioned that DeVry University generated $55 million of free cash flow last year.
So we're very focused on that.
We've obviously got our fingers crossed that the local marketing program will work and work quickly but we'll just have to see how the year plays out.
But we will continue to work on that if we need to.
Thanks for that Tim.
And then on that last point do you guys have any  I'm looking for evidence the shift in the DeVry University marketing strategy is working.
Any metrics you can look at in terms of leading indicators that would suggest that the local ad strategy is actually driving better inquiries or something else you look at? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I would say that we are seeing in terms of the dynamic with inquiries applications conversions I think you're kind of getting at I think the team is doing a terrific job in the process of advising prospective students who inquire and therefore the conversion rate or the percentage of inquiries to applications is actually up.
So that's good.
So the prospective student who talks to us who visits the campus et cetera they like what they see and that application rate is up.
The issue is more at the earlier stage of the process.
The inquiries are not where we'd like them to be which we're addressing with the new marketing strategy.
And there we have seen some interesting early results.
We ran a technology campaign in Columbus for example that focused on our Cyber Security Programming offering and it highlighted local technology employers.
It included an event that we call Hack Your Future and so you kind of get practice hacking your way into a system and it drew hundreds of attendees and we saw some lift in applications.
So it's very early.
It takes time for these things to germinate and work their way through the system.
And I would say  so that's the bad news is the top of the process the early part of the funnel.
The good news is it's a more efficient model sort of fewer more qualified inquiries; fewer more qualified applications and more efficient process for our staff to handle and process those students through the process.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Peter this is Tim.
One thing that gives me some comfort as we look at this program is that we're significantly increasing spend in those markets that we've targeted and so what we're trying to do is lift our share-of-voice which we think just wasn't where it needed to be given our presence in those markets.
So I think given it's certainly a tough environment but I'm confident that that will create lift in those local markets along with a lot of the other things that we're doing.
Great.
Thank you.
Next we have Corey Greendale First Analysis.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hello Corey.
First just a clarifier on the guidance.
For the fiscal 2016 guidance of earnings being flat you're talking about EPS or operating income? I'm asking because of the moving tax rate.
I just want to clarify what number you mean.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> EPS.
Okay.
And then Daniel when you're talking about  and I know we'll talk a lot more about this at the Investor Day but the long-term guidance I just want to understand what year you're starting from.
So you're talking about mid-single-digit organic growth starting from fiscal 2015 so you incorporating a down year and even with that you're going to get five-year mid-single-digit organic growth or just can you clarify that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We are saying 2016 to 2020.
So 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 that's five-year second half of the decade five-year strategic plan horizon that's what we're talking about.
And from where we sit now do you think 2016 is the bottom on both revenue and bottom line? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We think we can return to growth at DeVry University over that timeframe.
There's a process of moving through that and then sustain the growth with everything else and given the makeup now with 75%-plus of the earnings coming from Medical and Healthcare obviously you can see the dynamics there.
So yeah that's what we're talking about.
Yeah.
And then maybe I'm going over my two questions but I'll make this quick.
For Tim on DeVry University what is the assumption of the cadence of cost savings? Does it kind of come down immediately in Q1 and stay there or more gradually? And could you help us with modeling revenue per student for Brazil given the moving pieces between currency and seasonality and the acquisitions? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> That one we'll probably have to take offline.
A lot of the expense reductions for DeVry University were implemented in the last month or  well couple of months right.
So it's front-end loaded and it's a commitment to deliver $125 million less cost in 2016 compared to 2015.
All right.
Thank you.
Jeff Silber BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks so much.
Just wanted to circle back to the campus footprint closures.
Can you tell us just in terms of a timeline will all those students be taught out this year? Or will there be some potential impact in fiscal 2017 as well? With respect to the students depending on the remaining credit hours required certainly that could go beyond this fiscal year.
It's our anticipation that the significant majority of the locations we'll have vacated them by the end of this calendar year so 12/31 of 2015 there may be a location or two that goes out into FY 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Calendar year 2016.
Or calendar year 2016.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And I'll ask a revenue per student question.
But I'm going to ask about the DeVry University.
What should we be expecting gets incorporated into your guidance and can you talk about the level of scholarships you plan on implementing this year? Thanks.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Sure.
Great question.
For DeVry University undergraduate revenue per student Jeff for the first quarter of 2016 so it'll likely be down in the 5% to 6% range and that's going to be impacted in part by our tuition grants for gainful employment and then for the balance of the year quarters two three and four our revenue per student will likely be down around 4%.
Just to put some context around that during FY 2015 revenue per student was off in the 1% to 2% range.
I think for the fourth quarter of 2015 it was off about 0.5%.
So you can see the delta there; even pulling out the impact of gainful employment we'll be up about 300 basis points or so driven by our scholarships.
So we'll be piloting some scholarships to further address the affordability of overall college education and again our continued use of our strategic scholarship program to ensure that we are attracting students to help them achieve their goals and then of course to help students continue to persist.
All right.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> And one last question on there a little more context revenue per student is also being slightly impacted by our very positive Medical Billing &amp; Coding Certificate.
That comes at a lower credit hour - Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Cost per credit hour.
Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Cost per credit hour.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks again.
The next question we have comes from Jeff Meuler of Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
You guys discussed DVU same campus enrollment trends.
Can you give a sense for at Chamberlain if I look kind of at like full year 2015 what was same campus new enrollment growth? I'm just trying to get a sense for how much of the growth is being driven by the campus openings versus how much underlying same campus growth there is.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah okay.
You're right that's an important question because I think some people have sort of missed that when they have seen the new  the difference between the new student growth at Chamberlain and then that much bigger total student growth you're on to obviously the dynamic that you get that total student growth as you are filling up those new campuses or as you are filling up the ranks of a new program such as FNP or DNP.
So Pat do you have any color on that? Sure.
Color on that so our campuses at Chamberlain that are mature meaning that they've been open for a period of at least three years total revenues there grew very nicely in the mid-teen range and then our developing campuses would have more than doubled during that period of time.
So our total campus-based revenues grew in the low 20% range in FY 2015.
And just to remind you put some context around that in terms of Chamberlain's total mix of revenues about 45% is being generated from our BSN or our campus-based programs with the remaining 55% coming from our post-licensure online programs.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And if you look at the online programs plus I think you referred to them as the mature campuses those in existence for three or more years what would the operating margins or EBITDA margins however you want to say it for Chamberlain be? So what are steady-state Chamberlain operating margins? Treasurer &amp; Senior VP</span></strong> Maybe I'll answer it in this context.
So our overall Medical and Healthcare margin was right around 17.9% or 18% for the year and Chamberlain on a standalone or fully allocated basis is just slightly ahead of that operating segment margin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
Of course within your  you've got DMI and the growth that we're starting to see there come back.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good.
Next we have Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for taking my follow up.
I just wanted to ask about PMI plus 11% on new enrollment so it looks like you've got it fixed.
Can you just break that out versus Vet versus Medical AUC versus Ross and what changed to get that new enrollment higher? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so what changed to get it higher is we've been working on this and we acknowledge that it's been a little bit frustrating couple of quarters where we had some operational hiccups.
We think it was more us.
There's still a very strong very solid long-term demand obviously for physicians and for veterinarians globally by the way but obviously here we're focused on United States and Canada for the most part but increasingly we see global opportunity.
And I think it was a combination of some reorganization to better support the medical schools in particular.
That's where more of the issue was.
The vet school was pretty steady through that little hiccup that we had.
And also we have very strong brand reputations and we saw a real opportunity to do a better job of communicating of taking some things that were working for a long time  I think I mentioned the information seminars.
That's been a tried-and-true part of the DMI recruiting process for a long time but we were still doing it the same way we've always been doing it yet the environment was changing around us: more social more digital.
It's not just radio.
Radio's still there but you've got to supplement that and you've got to follow up with different technologies in different ways.
And so by doing that we've improved the results and of course that goes hand-in-hand with the academic results because students see those residency match rates.
That has been very important for us and all of that was what was behind the May number of 11%.
We don't expect to see that as a long-term trend because 11% is a little bit of a catch-up for making up for lost time but we think we can still  we're in good shape here for September and long-term see continued low single-digit enrollment growth over the long term.
Inc.</span></strong> So  great.
So September 2015 you think low single-digit off that 842 new enrollment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I'm saying we're still kind of catching up for lost time here so it could be better and we're feeling good about September.
I'm just saying from a long-term I get back to that sort of five-year long-term average we think that's a more prudent way to forecast and if we do a little bit better sometime than long-term trend great.
I just wouldn't want to say you know that double-digit is a long-term trend.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And there doesn't seem to be much difference between AUC and Ross in terms of growth or is that wrong? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No there's a little bit more at AUC.
Do you want to comment on that Pat? Yeah a little more at AUC historically but the improvement that we saw in the May session was largely at Ross Med and Ross Vet's performance on new student enrollments has been very consistent.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
That's good.
We do see increasing international opportunity as well for international students.
Most of our history has been U.S.
and Canada but we've had more and more interest from international students coming to the schools and I think that will probably show up a little bit more at AUC than at Ross on the margin but also at the vet school I should hasten to add there; a lot of international interest in our vet program.
Thank you.
At this time it appears that we have no further questions.
We'll go ahead and conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference call back over to Ms.
Joan Walter of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Walter the floor is yours ma'am.
Thanks Mike.
We'd like to thank everyone for your questions today.
Our next quarterly results call is scheduled for October 22 when we'll announce our fiscal 2016 first quarter and September enrollment.
Thank you for your continued support of DeVry Education Group.
And we thank you ma'am and to the rest of the management team for your time also.
The conference call is now concluded.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Again we thank you for your participation.
Take care and have a great day.