Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Irene Prezelj Executive Director Investor Relations of FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you Ms.
Prezelj you may begin.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon.
During this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the earnings release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Clark Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Harvey Wagner Vice President and Controller; Jim Pearson Vice President and Treasurer; Bill Byrd Vice President of Corporate Risk; and Ron Seeholzer Vice President of Investor Relations.
I'll now turn the call over to Tony.
Thanks Irene and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
In the 3 months since we've met with you in New York we've made significant progress integrating Allegheny and implementing the strategies we outlined.
Our second quarter results are in line with our expectations and we are on track to meet our objectives and capture the benefits we outlined for you at that meeting.
At this point I'm very pleased with our performance.
And given our confidence in our business strategy and our ability to achieve our merger targets we have narrowed our 2011 non-GAAP earnings guidance to $3.30 to $3.50 per share.
Mark will talk more about the revised guidance including expectations for the third and fourth quarters when he discuss his financial results a little later.
He will also provide updates on the major areas we outlined in May including debt reduction asset sales and our liquidity position.
For my part I'll provide a detail around our progress with the merger savings and review some other recent developments for you.
Let's start with the merger.
Through the end of the second quarter we have completed merger-related initiatives that will allow us to capture approximately $132 million in pretax benefits on an annual basis.
That's over 60% of the merger-related savings we expect to achieve by year end.
Keep in mind that the $132 million benefit is an annualized figure so only a portion is reflected in the second quarter results.
But this is consistent with the timing and realization we expected.
The completed actions include once-and-done items like restructuring our combined credit facilities reorganizing the executive team and canceling many overlapping or duplicative contractual arrangements such as insurance policies and Alleghany's outsourced information technology services contract.
Most of the remaining actions are associated with enhancements and how we operate as a combined company things like increasing retail sales improving supercritical fossil fleet performance implementing various supply chain initiatives and optimizing fuel transportation.
These are captured generally over time and build as we improve the efficiency of our operations.
At this point the merger and integration are going very well.
I'm pleased with our progress.
In fact we are a little ahead of schedule and I remain confident that we will achieve the synergies we've outlined at this spring.
Respecting FES our solutions company as you know one of the most significant benefits of the merger is the addition of the supercritical generation that can be deployed by FirstEnergy Solutions within our competitive business model.
During the second quarter FES continued to have tremendous success in growing its customer base and now has 1.65 million customers a 65% increase over the second quarter of 2010.
FES also has made significant gains in direct governmental aggregation and mass-market sales during the second quarter.
Government aggregation sales have increased 41% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and our initial mass-market efforts in Ohio and Western Pennsylvania have exceeded our expectations.
In July we signed our first mass-market customers in Illinois complementing our governmental aggregation efforts in that state.
We are planning to expand our mass-market efforts into Maryland later this year.
We are starting to see both wholesale forwards and retail prices increase to reflect the anticipated environmental changes.
Turning now to some recent developments starting with those environmental regulations on the Fossil side of our business we are continuing to review the EPA's new Cross State Air Pollution Rule or CSAPR which will require significant reductions in nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide emissions from plants throughout most of the eastern half of the United States.
The new rules are more aggressive than the CARE rules they replaced and they are likely to have an impact on the amount of generation that will be available beginning in 2012.
In general we believe we are in pretty good shape relative to other coal generators thanks to the work that has been completed across our fleet.
Looking at our competitive base load generating capacity most of the air pollution control equipment is already in place to meet the EPA's new NOx and SO2 emission reduction requirements.
Of the 14 supercritical coal units in our competitive fleet Eastlake 5 is the only one that is not scrubbed for SO2 and there are only 4 units without SCRs.
On a percentage basis including our nuclear units 95% of our competitive fleet is either non-emitting or well controlled for NOx and SO2.
I would like to emphasize that our analysis of the EPA's rules is ongoing and we do not plan to make any final decisions or announcements about plant status until after we have thoroughly evaluated CSAPR and the final maximum achievable control technology or MACT rules for mercury and hazardous air pollutants that are expected to be finalized in November.
One final point in this area we have about $40 million in existing CARE allowances in our inventory that we will continue to use through the balance of 2011.
So the impact of any potential impairment to these allowances that are unused from that old EPA program would be relatively insignificant.
On the Transmission side of our business during the second quarter we celebrated 2 milestones.
First in mid-May our 150-mile trail line was energized.
Taking this 500-kb line from concept to operation in 5 years was a tremendous accomplishment by the team.
And as PJM noted during the recent heat wave the completion of the trail line means 1 000 megawatts of power was added to population centers along I-95 quarter this summer.
On June 1 we completed the integration of ATSI's operations into PJM.
So at this point all of our transmission assets are now part of a single RTO.
Finally we continue to actively voice our support of competitive markets especially in Ohio where there is much debate on this topic.
We firmly believe that competition is the best way to offer lower generation prices to customers increased productivity and efficiencies from existing generating facilities provide the appropriate market signals regarding the need for new generation and promote jobs and economic growth.
1.6 million customers throughout Ohio are already taking advantage of competitive markets by choosing their supplier of electric generation.
We will continue to aggressively support customer's rights to participate in competitive electricity markets and their ability to take advantage of the benefits that only competitive markets can deliver.
Now I'll turn this over to Mark for our second quarter review.
Thanks Tony and good afternoon everyone.
Today I would like to guide you through our second quarter and then I'll spend a few minutes updating you on our progress against many of the financial targets we outlined during our analyst meeting in May.
As Tony said our second quarter 2011 results are consistent with our expectations.
Excluding special items non-GAAP earnings were $0.65 per share compared to $0.82 in the second quarter of 2010.
On a GAAP basis this quarter's earnings were $0.43 per share compared to $0.87 per share last year.
As Tony also mentioned we have narrowed our non-GAAP earnings guidance to $3.30 to $3.50 per share which reflects our confidence in the full year.
As you refine your models for the remainder of the year our earnings guidance implies estimated earnings for the second half of 2011 of $1.94 to $2.14 per share.
As this is the first year with Allegheny and to provide greater clarity I'll add that we anticipate achieving about 60% of those earnings in the third quarter and 40% in the fourth.
As I walk through our second quarter results it may be helpful for you to refer to the consolidated report to the financial community we issued this morning.
As detailed on Page 18 of the consolidated report there were several special items that decreased this quarter's GAAP earnings by a total of $0.22 per share.
By comparison in the second quarter of 2010 special items increased GAAP earnings by $0.05 per share.
There were 3 merger-related items that decreased GAAP earnings by a total of $0.12 per share.
These included merger accounting integration costs and regulatory charges.
The resolution of litigation related primarily to remediation cost for legacy manufactured gas plants in New York reduced GAAP earnings by $0.05 per share.
Mark-to-market adjustments of certain wholesale power contracts decreased earnings by $0.03 per share and 2 items reduced GAAP earnings by $0.01 each impairments of nuclear decommissioning trusts securities and non-core assets in the process of being sold.
Moving now to the key drivers of our second quarter non-GAAP results I will start with the merger.
Results from the Allegheny companies contributed $0.20 to second quarter earnings.
Earnings also increased by $0.04 per share as a result of fair value adjustments under purchase accounting that impact interest expense pension and OPEB cost depreciation expense regulatory asset amortization and purchased power cost.
And while the shares issued in conjunction with the transaction decreased earnings by $0.22 per share the merger continues to be accretive to our quarterly earnings.
As Tony said we are pleased with our progress to integrate Allegheny and we expect to achieve the benefits we described when we met with you in May.
Turning now to other second quarter drivers.
Higher O&amp;M expense decreased earnings by a total of $0.07 per share.
This was driven by 2 planned nuclear outages and several planned and unplanned fossil outages partially offset by lower overall expenses on the utility side.
Commodity margin decreased earnings by $0.04 per share principally as a result of the unplanned forced outages.
A more detailed summary of this item appears on Pages 2 and 3 of the consolidated report including additional information on megawatt hour volumes and prices.
At our FirstEnergy Solutions subsidiary contract generation sales increased 4% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
As Tony mentioned FES made significant gains in direct governmental aggregation and mass markets.
And as you would expect growth in these channels is matched by a corresponding decrease in POLR sales.
With respect to our hedge position our 2011 book is essentially full.
Well 2012 contracted sales and revenues are nearly 75% and we are approaching 40% for 2013.
All of these are very consistent with the glide path we outlined in May.
Generation output for the quarter was 10% below the second quarter of 2010 or 1.8 million-megawatt hours.
As I stated earlier this decrease resulted from both planned and unplanned outages including an extended outage to repair the generator at one of our Sammis units which is now back online.
As a result of lower generation output and higher contracted sales wholesale sales decreased 713 000 megawatt hours or 64% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Lower generation output also resulted in an increase in purchased power costs offset by a reduction in fossil fuel expense during the quarter.
Going forward we expect to temper any fuel increase -- fuel expense increases as we continue to capture merger synergies and other opportunities to restructure our existing coal contracts.
Benefiting from the move to PGM on June 1 we saw increased capacity revenues.
And finally we incurred higher capacity congestion network and line loss expenses associated with our increased retail sales principally in Pennsylvania.
Continuing with other second quarter drivers financing costs including lower capitalized interest and higher interest expense reduced earnings by $0.04 per share.
General taxes decreased earnings by $0.02 per share compared to the second quarter of 2010 that reflected favorable tax settlements and higher depreciation expense reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
This was essentially the net impact of the in-service of the Sammis AQC project and the write down of the Lake and Burger plants.
Finally distribution deliveries were down 1% overall with slight decreases across all categories.
I would characterize industrial sales as spotty while commercial sales continued to lag.
Although perhaps difficult to remember after the recent heat wave or should I say the current heat wave we've had relatively mild conditions across our serviced territories during the months of April and May which largely neutralized the impact of June summer weather.
For the first 6 months of 2011 the impact of weather on kilowatt-hour sales was basically flat compared to 2010.
Looking forward while we still have 2 months remaining in the third quarter the expectations is our distribution revenues in July should benefit from the extreme heat that we're now experiencing.
And for the second half of the year we currently expect industrial sales to increase at a rate of about 3%.
At our May analyst meeting we provided an approximate breakdown of how we expected each of our 3 business segments to contribute to earnings.
And through the first half of 2011 results are very much in line with our expectations and that makes for a good transition to discuss our progress against other financial targets we identified at the analyst meeting.
We shared with you our plans to deliver strong financial results with consistent earnings positive cash flow and a strong balance sheet.
We outlined our strategies to grow our competitive business and achieved benefits from the merger.
And as Tony said in May our team has a track record of doing what we say and we're going to do just that.
Earlier today Tony described how in the 5 short months since the completion of the merger we have already captured $132 million in synergies and we expect to achieve more than $210 million in merger benefits by the end of the year.
We are also on target with respect to our debt reduction goals.
Year-to-date we have reduced net debt by more than $100 million and we expect additional redemptions and maturities to bring our 2011 net debt reduction total to approximately $825 million.
We're using the proceeds of the December tax legislation combined with asset sales and free cash flow to continue to reduce our balance sheet leverage.
We completed the sale of the Fremont generating station last week which will increase our overall liquidity by approximately $510 million.
I would note that the $825 million of debt reduction total does not include proceeds from the plant sale of Signal Peak.
That sale process continues on track.
And if completed the proceeds will provide additional cash for further debt reduction and increased overall liquidity.
And our liquidity position is strong with $4.6 billion available at the end of the quarter.
As you may know in June we successfully renewed and restructured $4.5 billion of revolving credit facilities consisting of a $2 billion 5-year credit facility for FirstEnergy and its regulated entities and a $2.5 billion credit facility for FES and AEP supply.
We were very pleased with the overall response and commitments of our banks and want to express our thanks to them.
Only 3 months have passed since we outlined our overall financial strategy.
Despite that short timeframe we have made considerable progress towards our goal of strengthening our balance sheet divesting non-core assets generating positive cash flow maintaining a strong dividend and capturing merger synergies.
Given how far we have come in a short period of time we are confident in our narrowed non-GAAP earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.50 per share.
I can assure you that our team remains focused on meeting its commitments and continuing our success.
Thanks for listening.
And now I'd like to open up the call to your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Tony I was just wondering if you'll give a little more thought on kind of the dynamics in Ohio provisionally in AEP settlement maybe this week and Duke's plant out there they're going a different direction.
What are the routes you guys see available to try and keep Ohio on the path to a competitive market environment rather than going back to regulation for those guys? Well I think if there's a -- if you think about the AEP case and probably synergy is going to be about the same or Duke's about the same there's multiple parties not just FirstEnergy engaged in trying to assure the competitive markets are the way to stay in Ohio and move both Duke and AEP more towards that model.
We're not the only voice in this debate although obviously we're one of the larger ones.
But obviously there are customers involved.
There are other marketers involved.
And quite frankly I think it's a hard sell overall to the basic process in Ohio is one in which whatever path you choose it must be lower or less value than using a competitive market.
And if in fact they want to sell at lower-than-competitive prices so be it.
I don't think that's where their heads are at.
I don't think that's where they're going.
And from what I understand their filings wouldn't support that.
So I think the debate's still very lively and very much at the beginning here in the state.
Given the volume of customers that have shopped in Ohio are you finding Duke and AEP's service territory folks are willing to kind of permanently step out of their service to avoid non-by passable charges and I assume you guys talked earlier before.
Do you do see any success capturing kind of that permanent customers shift right now? Well I think we are Dan.
I think we're having some pretty strong success despite rules within each of those areas that are not conducive to shopping.
So we are moving customers.
I think if in fact they knew that they could avoid the non-by passable charges by shifting before they're established I think you'd see much more shopping much more activity in those areas.
Okay.
And I guess just one more question on kind of the shopping trends you're seeing.
In Ohio looks like you've kind of lost momentum on a lot of shifting on the side of your utility base.
Do you think Pennsylvania can get to that same level of shop 70% 80% 85% shopping overtime and kind of what timeframe do you think that would occur under? Well go ahead Mark and then I'll answer some of -- I know you want to say something.
Dan this is Mark.
We've always talked about we only have so many megawatt hours to sell.
And to the extent we reduced some of our sales in Ohio and moved it someplace else.
All it does it means is that we're moving that megawatt hour kilowatt hour to where we can generate a greater margin.
In Ohio shopping at around 75% and I would expect it to stay pretty close to that.
Pennsylvania I believe is up to 50%.
And it's going -- our expectation is it would grow because it really somewhat opened up in net add NLEC [ph] at the end of December.
So it's not so much we're dropping here or adding there.
It's where we can get the most margin for that megawatt hour.
Tony you want to say something? Yes.
And I think what you'll see over time in Pennsylvania is shopping will approach the level that you're seeing in Ohio.
I just think it will take a little longer because you don't have the ability in Pennsylvania to use tools like government aggregation which allow you to make groups of residential customers look more like larger commercial and industrial customers which means it takes a little longer to move customer by customer into those markets.
But the fact of the matter is as customers get information as it becomes clearer and clearer to them that there is an advantage to competitive markets and they want to take advantage of it.
There will certainly be suppliers out there like FirstEnergy.
And FirstEnergy Solutions will hopefully be the preferred supplier of all these customers and they'll seek contracts with us over a longer term.
And I didn't see an updated hedging slide but are you guys on course to get this shift in customer mix that you expected from the analyst day? Yes very much so Dan.
Our next question is from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
A couple of questions.
I think I heard you right that you're not planning to sort of give us some kind of holistic view of what the environmental rules mean for the -- your fleet until you get a final MACT rule.
But based on what you've seen with the CSAPR rule and the reactions you've seen in the forward curves around the region do you feel the market's generally reflecting that effectively or something different? I think the market is beginning to appreciate the impact these rules may have on available generation.
And I think it's just starting because there's just pieces of information coming out.
I think the PJM auction kind of set a tone for that.
The new CSAPR rule which have accelerated requirements with respect to SO2 and NOx and have limited trading capability within those -- within that potential compliance regime I think it's -- I think we're at the beginning of trying to understand how this in fact impact prices going forward.
And I don't think there's any question that it will.
Okay.
And then just following up on that I think you've mentioned you have 4 of the supercritical units that are not controlled for NOx.
If you were to decide you needed to do that for next year how quickly could it be done? Well it can't be done in a year I can tell you that.
Now that's part of what we're looking at right now.
I don't think it have to be done by next year because they do have some controls on them.
And we might be able to use of interim controls like SNCRs and better burners at some of the Allegheny plants.
So I'm not quite ready to give you or to outline exactly all of the options we have near term and long term.
Okay.
Can I ask a specific one on firstly to what extent do you have customers under contract in Duke's territory that whether contracts run beyond the current ESP.
And if there are such customers what's your sense of how they would get treated if the ESP was to go forward? Is there a risk they'd effectively be paying you for capacity and also having to pay Duke's capacity charge and how would the contracts deal with that? This is Bill Byrd.
We do have some contracts which go beyond the current provider of Duke's ESP not huge numbers of customers but we do have some that’s specific to how the capacity would work from the customer perspective.
We just have to work it out.
It isn't provided for in our contracts and we have to see how it would be dealt with in the regulatory side and then works out with our customers.
Your contract is silent on that topic basically.
Yes.
Basically Jonathan anything you do inside of a market that makes things non-by passable in a competitive market makes it very -- it raises all kinds of issues and questions with respect to timing and with respect to who and how long they're willing to pay for things.
Okay.
And if you allow me just on one another topic we've seen some stories about some operational issues at Signal Peak and it sounds like you might be pushed backs of the timing expectations on the sale a little bit but maybe I didn't hear that right.
What are your thoughts around timing of potential sale there? Jonathan this is Mark.
We haven't changed our timing.
I think we slowed it up until we moved the longwall into the second panel.
That was done early July.
There were some operational issues there which required some additional supports.
Mine Health Safety Administration has signed off on our plant on the process of doing that.
They've signed off our ability to resume production.
But we're still on schedule.
We've narrowed it down 8 meters as we said before.
We didn't really want to get anyone into the mine until those panels were removed.
So management's sole focus was getting that done.
We're back into the sales process again.
And in my mind we're right on where we expect -- anticipated being in terms of schedule.
That's a 2012 event rather than '11 from a cash standpoint from the sound of it? It could be 2011 but it would be probably later in the year.
There are number of different options to pursue with respect to the sale.
And the asset has a lot of value and we'll take our time working through which option seems to be the best for us and our partner.
Our next question is from the line of Steve Fleishman Bank of America.
A couple of questions.
First I'll ask a few that I'm not sure any of which you'll answer.
But on the -- when you gave the merger outlook you really gave 3 year's worth of guidance and I know you don't want to be in a position to always be updating that.
But so far in the merger and all the different factors you baked in as well as the updates in the markets would you say you're still on track for the 3 years? I'll speak to the merger piece that we're certainly on track for the merger piece.
We feel very comfortable with that.
We talked about the fact there were 289 initiatives.
They've all been assigned.
Our folks are working them.
So I feel very comfortable with that.
Tony alluded to the prices seem to be moving up a little bit so you can factor that in.
We've talked about the fact that we're hedged about 75% in 2012 about 40% in '13.
So I think we're very comfortable with where we are.
Okay.
Secondly on RPM I'm wondering if you'd give any color on what ended up happening with your subcritical plants bidding into the auction? It's Bill Byrd Steve.
I think it be safe for you all to assume that we didn't sell forward the plants most at risk to the environmental rules.
So would that be like all your subcritical or some portion of them? We've said there's 1 500 2 500 megawatts of subcritical units that are most at risk from the environmental perspective so in that range.
Okay.
And then lastly just I don't know if Donny's there but just maybe some color on -- you've clearly done very well adding customers retail customers during this time what are you seeing on the competitive dynamic on retail? Is it getting a lot more? I mean you're one of the big competitors making it more competitive but are you seeing a lot of others? And what are you seeing on margins and the like? Well I think in Ohio I think we would say that customers as we've outlined before still remain somewhat sticky.
That market's been there a little bit longer.
PA is just kind of starting up since the beginning of the year so time will tell about that.
But we're comfortable with the margins that we've said.
We've only got so many megawatt hours to sell and we're going to move them around to where we can get the most.
And you got to remember that our generation was built for a particular load shape and all we're trying to do is replicate that shape at the highest possible margins.
So we're very comfortable with where we are and we're extraordinarily pleased with the efforts of Donny's group and how fast they've been able to do it.
And not only on the front-end margin but we're doing a lot of work Steve on the back end and trying to make sure that we have the most efficient back room possible.
So we don't get it on one end and then give it away at the other.
So we've been spending a lot of time on that and making a lot of progress there as well.
So we're very pleased with the overall success both in the capture of the customer and the margin and the efficiency that are being created in the back office.
Our next question is from the line of Marc de Croisset with FBR Capital.
I know you're still digesting this cross state air pollution rule.
And when I looked at it I found it to be really tough on Ohio and Pennsylvania.
And the thought occurred to me you had about $2 billion of CapEx in the outer years that I think was earmarked for environmental compliance and I'm wondering if your initial assessment of this rule changes the timing of that CapEx.
Marc this is Mark.
We gave our guidance back in May.
We said that our capital would be around $2 billion a year.
It might change a little bit as we move.
For example this year we reduced some substation expense and moved it into other areas but still staying within the $2 billion.
That $2 billion was not used to address the environmental issues.
So as Tony alluded to we're doing our homework now and we don't have a number and we won't until we get to see all the different options which we hope to have get through this summer.
But I just want to be clear that that $2 billion was what I would call the ongoing business itself.
I should say we did add $100 million in '12 and '13 for any potential engineering that needed to be done for the nuclear or the fossil units.
Okay.
I think there was a $2 billion number outside of that 3-year projection period that was just a number a very rough number for potential compliance with all EPA regulations you saw coming down this pike.
Yes.
That's correct Marc.
In that number there would have been for example there would have been investment at Eastlake 5.
Beyond bank houses which are probably the primary means for complying with the MACT rule.
And you don't see maybe a tick up in operating expenses for -- perhaps you may be short allowances in Ohio Pennsylvania.
I'm just speculating.
But you don't see any of that impact yet from the cross state air pollution rule? Well again not all this is all clear yet in terms of how the allowances and how this is going to get allocated.
For example the base year is 2005.
Most of our equipment in Ohio was not scrubbed in 2005.
It is scrubbed today so the Sammis Plant construction project as an example.
So how those allowances are going to get used across the state they don't have to cross state lines to be able to use them in other plants in time how we will in fact meet the requirements for 2012 '13 and '14.
And if I may just very quickly you called industrial activity a bit spotty.
What's happening with respect to industrial activity in your markets? Well I think that you have to remember that the first half of last year was extraordinarily strong with double-digit growth.
We obviously wouldn't expect double-digit growth as nice as that might be.
But we're seeing where you got pockets of the market that are very very strong.
For example steel and the piping for wells.
You've got the Chevy crews on a third shift over at Youngstown.
You've got the 2 auto engine plants for Ford.
You've got some strong segments and you've got some other segments that aren't doing so well but it's all being compared against that very strong first half of last year.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
I wanted to ask you about the ESP staff proposal that they're I guess passing around to parties and what have you.
Could you just give us a feeling as to where your general direction is at least what they're actually proposing? No.
To be honest with you I haven't seen it Paul.
So I don't even know if anything is being passed around.
I know that's what people are talking about but I haven't seen anything like that.
And on the guidance the bottom of the range going up what was that? Was that -- I'm sorry if I missed it.
Was that because of weather or the merger outlook or a combination of things? It is a combination of things.
I mean July was -- I read this morning in the paper was the hottest July we've add in 140 years.
I think we're getting better.
The merger started February 28.
We've got everybody in place now.
Folks know what's expected of them.
We got a better handle on where the costs are where the opportunities are.
If you recall we took some of the Allegheny plants offline intentionally to get some of their production up so I would say it's pretty much across the board.
And that's why we're very comfortable with raising the bottom end.
Okay.
And then with respect to the dispatch of the Allegheny plants is everything looking there like you guys had expected that you'll be able to increase the supercritical is that still on track? Yes.
Okay.
And then just finally on the direct sales it looks like there was a little bit of a decrease in the margin.
Is that because of the type of customer you're signing or is that because of -- is that -- what's going on there I guess? Is there any significant changes? It was only a couple of cents but I was just wondering if there was -- it seem that the rates had -- I guess the margin decreased a little bit or something there.
I think you're reading the numbers too finely.
It's just noise.
I would say the impact associated with some of the forced outages that we had as compared to last year which I think had a fairly major effect on what they can do what they could sell having to buy some purchased power.
I think it's again another reason why we're fairly comfortable with the second half of the year.
Sammis is back online.
Our next question is from the Hugh Wynne of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I just had a question regarding the fossil – output of the fossil fuel fleet at the FirstEnergy fleet you had the decrease in fossil fuel generation of about 2.1 million-megawatt hours which is very substantial about 18% particularly per fleet as well as yours.
So my question was how did that flow through earnings-wise to items like Purchase Power wholesale sales Transmission expense and what portion of that earnings impact should we think of as kind of exceptional? Were there exceptional items that drove this decline in generation? Well that's a great question.
I think it hit across the board.
You had Sammis 6 off for 91 days.
You had Mansfield 3 off for 32 days.
You had Eastlake 5 off for 7 days.
It's 161 days.
You compare that to without getting in detail some of the fossil units plant enforced last year of 107.
So we lost a significant amount of the fleet in the first half but the biggest chunk of that was Sammis which will come back.
Because you don't have Sammis you go up your cost curve in terms of generation.
So our fuel cost would go up.
It's associated with that.
The opportunity cost we can't capture because those units are now being used and need our contractual sales.
So it's across the board that Purchase Power goes up fuel cost go up and the margin goes down.
But as we've said the biggest chunk of that was the Sammis 6 unit of 91 days and that is back online and expect to be back online for the balance of the year.
Inc.</strong> No EPS impact that you could offer? It did have an impact but it would kind of -- I have to speculate as to what the opportunity sales could have been.
I'd speculate as to would that plant run or not run so I would -- I think I'll just leave it that it had an impact.
It would have been nice to have the units on particularly with the weather.
We didn't get it and even despite the fact that those units aren't on we're increasing the lower end of our guidance given the confidence we have in the second half of the year.
So despite all of that we're still confident in what we told you back in May.
Our next question is from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I missed your commentary around you have some CARE allowances.
Are you basically saying those are stranded at this point? Paul this is Harvey Wagner.
We still will be using those throughout the remainder of the year.
We're expecting that any kind of impairment that could result from that really wouldn't be anywhere near the numbers that you're seeing from others in the industry.
Okay.
And just switching gears one of the things about the Allegheny merger that you target was the ability to blend fuel.
Can you just kind of give an update on where you are there and what you have to do forward? We're proceeding with plan.
It just takes time to get the contracts in place with the transportation arrangements and the coal yard facilities set up but we're proceeding with plan.
The only other thing I would is that it takes a while for people to understand how we manage our units how we'd like those units to be managed and that's all a part of the learning curve and that unfortunately takes some time and we're being careful as we go through it.
I think these question has been asked a couple of times but you took up the bottom end of guidance.
Can we assume that what's good for '11 is good for '12 '13 and forward? We took out the bottom end of guidance in '11 and didn't speak to '12 or '13.
But It wasn't onetime the '11 things that really drove that? I can just speak to the fact we increased the bottom end of the guidance for '11 because that was the focus of what we reviewed and we're going through '12 and '13 right now.
Okay I'd like to thank everyone joining us on the call today.
And as always we appreciate your continued support and interest in FirstEnergy.
Thank you very much.
Thanks everyone.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Irene Prezelj Executive Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you.
Ms.
Prezelj you may begin.
Thank you Melissa and good afternoon.
During this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Clark Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Harvey Wagner Vice President and Controller; Jim Pearson Vice President and Treasurer; Bill Byrd Vice President of Corporate Risk; Pete Sena President and COO of FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company; and Ron Seeholzer Vice President of Investor Relations.
I'll now turn the call over to Tony.
Thanks Irene and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I will provide an update on our merger synergies the progress with our retail strategy and more details about the expected impact of environmental regulations.
Then Mark will provide an overview of our third quarter results and our progress towards our key financial initiatives including debt reduction asset sales and our liquidity position.
But before I get started I'm sure you're all interested in an update on our Davis-Besse nuclear power station so I'll address that first.
As you know we began a scheduled outage on October 1 to install a new reactor vessel head and complete other maintenance activities at the unit.
After we opened the shield building we identified hairline cracks in the building's architectural elements.
Our team has determined that this cracking does not affect the structural integrity of the shield.
During our investigation we also identified other indications included among them were subsurface hairline cracks in 2 areas of the shield building similar to those found in the architectural elements.
While our overall investigation and analysis continues we currently expect to safely return Davis-Besse to service around the end of November.
I'll note that we have had a good dialogue with the NRC throughout this process.
Respecting the remaining outage work this past weekend the new reactor head was transported into containment and our other outage activities are about on schedule.
We'll continue to keep you advised and informed of our progress.
Turning now to a review of earnings and our strategic initiatives.
Today we reported solid third quarter results and I continue to be pleased with the progress we are making toward our goals.
While the economy obviously still isn't where any of us would like it to be and power markets reflect the continued excess capacity in our region we are making progress and expect to be well positioned to benefit as conditions improve.
Based on our strong third quarter results and our continued confidence in our business strategy we are reaffirming this year's non-GAAP earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.50 per share as well as 2012 and 2013 non-GAAP guidance of between $3.20 to $3.50 per share.
Let's look now at our merger savings progress.
The Allegheny integration process is going very smoothly.
The assets and the people are a very good fit with our organization and we remain on track to capture the level of synergies we have previously identified.
Through the end of the third quarter we have completed merger-related initiatives that will allow us to capture approximately $165 million in pretax benefits this year.
That's nearly 80% of the merger-related savings we expect to achieve by year end.
I'm pleased with our solid execution in this area.
At FirstEnergy Solutions we continue to expand our retail sales particularly in the direct commercial and industrial channels and in governmental aggregation.
We recently added new communities in both the AEP Ohio and Commonwealth Edison service territories and FES continues to champion new governmental aggregation opportunities.
More than 100 communities in Ohio representing nearly 500 000 households and 15 000 small commercial businesses have governmental aggregation issues on November ballots including the cities of Cincinnati Canton Findlay and Newark.
Of course the outcome of the AEP-ESP case will determine if communities in that service area will be able to take advantage of the program due to the provisions that would effectively limit competition in that service territory until 2014.
That decision will impact more than 60 communities that have valid issues up for vote next week.
Also on the regulatory front in Ohio we were 1 of about 25 key stakeholders in the Duke-ESP case signing on to a comprehensive settlement agreement last week.
In contrast to AEP settlement the Duke plan provides generation via market-based competitive supply and provides unrestricted access to shopping for all of its Ohio customers.
This is very similar to FirstEnergy Ohio utilities plans and if the commission approves the settlement over 50% of Ohio's retail electric customers will have unlimited access to the benefits of competitive markets.
Moving now to other recent developments starting with new environmental regulations.
As we analyze the impact on our company of CSAPR the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule that addresses SO2 and NOx we continue to believe we are well positioned to address these environmental requirements as a result of the investments we've already made at our supercritical units.
And even though our compliance plans are not yet finalized our emission allowance positions for both SO2 and NOx are such that we are able to offer some of that inventory to the market through a competitive bid process expected to be conducted later this month.
Respecting the pending maximum achievable control technology rules for mercury and hazardous air pollutants we still expect investments of about $2 billion to $3 billion in our generation fleet to comply.
Our investments are expected to primarily focus on reducing mercury and particulate emissions at our supercritical units.
Again as I mentioned last quarter this analysis is ongoing.
We do not plan to make any final decisions or announcements about plant status until after we have thoroughly evaluated the MACT rules and are -- that are expected to be finalized in December and develop a comprehensive plan taking into consideration both the MACT and CSAPR requirements and the results of the allowance auction.
Finally as many of you have experienced firsthand we've had some very difficult storm season here recently.
Our eastern utilities were severely impacted by Hurricane Irene and this weekend's snowstorm.
These were unusually challenging events and our crews encountered some very tough conditions.
Hurricane Irene caused major damage and led to power outages for about 1 million customers in our Jersey Central Met-Ed Penelec and Potomac Edison service areas.
Now many of these same areas are recovering from the rare October snowstorm this past weekend.
This storm dropped more than a foot of heavy wet snow in some areas of Northern New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania.
The snowfall coupled with strong winds and in particular leaves that are still on the trees was especially damaging.
We experienced substantially more tribulated outages from broken limbs and falling trees and in some ways the damage to the system was even more devastating than the hurricane.
Almost 800 000 customers were impacted by this event.
Hurricane Irene's restoration costs primarily for Jersey Central Power &amp; Light and Met-Ed totaled $78 million.
While $53 million of this was related to O&amp;M activities $50 million of that expense has been deferred for future recovery under existing regulatory practices in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
Due to the extensive damage from the snowstorm we anticipate that we will need to literally rebuild our system in some areas.
While we don't have cost projections yet we expect the majority of those expenditures to be capital in nature with most of the rest of the costs deferred for future recovery.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark for a review of the third quarter.
Thanks Tony and good afternoon everyone.
Today I will discuss third quarter results and then similar to last quarter I will spend a few minutes updating you on our progress against some of the financial targets we outlined during our Analyst Meeting in May.
As Tony mentioned we delivered strong results during the quarter.
Excluding special items third quarter 2011 non-GAAP earnings were $1.34 per share compared to $1.28 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
On a GAAP basis this quarter's earnings were $1.22 per share compared to $0.59 per share in the same period last year.
As I walk through our results it may be helpful for you to refer to the consolidated report to the financial community we issued this morning.
On Page 18 of the report you'll note the list of special items that decreased this quarter's GAAP earnings by a total of $0.12 per share.
By comparison in the third quarter of 2010 special items decreased GAAP earnings by $0.69 per share.
And as a reminder the 2010 reduction was primarily related to the impairment of several of our smaller coal-fired plants.
The largest in the third quarter 2011 special items was a $0.06 per share reduction related to purchase accounting for commodity contracts.
Additionally non-core asset sales and/or impairments reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
Finally there were 4 items that each reduced GAAP earnings by $0.01.
They are the impairment of nuclear decommissioning trusts securities merger costs mark-to-market adjustments and finally the resolution of litigation.
Having outlined the special items let me discuss our third quarter drivers.
I'll start with 4 items that had a negative impact on results.
The first of these is $0.06 per share in higher O&amp;M expense and I'll take a moment to describe the O&amp;M drivers.
The first was related to generation outages including outage preparation costs at Davis-Besse and expenses associated with outages at our Fossil plants.
The other significant O&amp;M item in the quarter was higher incentive compensation expense.
As a reminder this expense may go up or down depending on how successful we are in achieving our financial and operating targets including goals related to increasing shareholder value.
The actual progress affects the timing of expense recognition during the year.
And finally as Tony mentioned O&amp;M costs related to Hurricane Irene had minimal impact on third quarter results.
Moving now to the second negative driver of third quarter results financing costs primarily due to lower capitalized interest related to the completion of the Sammis environmental project reduced earnings by $0.05 per share.
Third is the $0.02 per share and higher depreciation expense reflecting the placement of the Sammis air quality control projects in service at the end of 2010.
The Sammis impact was partially offset by the reduced depreciation expense related to the impairments of the Lake plants and the retirement of Burger in 2010.
And finally general taxes decreased earnings by $0.01 per share.
Turning now to positive drivers of our third quarter non-GAAP results.
Let me start with the merger which continues to be accretive to earnings.
The $0.35 per share impact of shares issued in conjunction with the transaction was offset by the $0.32 per share contribution from Allegheny and $0.04 per share from the impacts of purchase accounting.
As Tony mentioned we continue to be pleased with the integration of Allegheny and we believe that we are solvently on track to achieve the benefits we expected from this combination.
Second commodity margin was an overall positive driver this quarter increasing in earnings by $0.19 per share.
However there were several pluses and minuses within commodity margin and I will detail those now.
You can find a detailed summary of this on Pages 2 and 3 of the consolidated report including additional information on megawatt hour volumes.
Generation output for the quarter was 4% below the third quarter of 2010 or 905 000 megawatt hours.
This decrease resulted primarily from the extended outage to repair the generator at one of our Sammis units which I would note was successfully brought back online in late July.
Looking at the positive elements of commodity margin there were several moving parts in the fuel area this quarter.
The decrease in generation output contributed to lower fuel expense offsetting the trend of higher overall fuel costs and we particularly benefited from the restructuring of a long-term fossil fuel contract.
In previous discussions our ability to extract fuel savings due to the substantial size of our generation fleet was identified as a potential major benefit of the merger.
Subsequent to our closing the transaction last February we have spent considerable time at FES addressing our fuel contracts and procurement and we are now starting to see the benefit of those efforts.
As I mentioned earlier we began a fairly comprehensive RFP process on the Fossil side.
Recently we negotiated several new agreements completed negotiations related to price reopeners for 2 of our larger contracts and renegotiated a below-market long-term fuel contract.
For the quarter we realized an $0.18 per share benefit.
So we are very pleased with our solid progress to contain fuel expenses and we remain on track to hold our fossil fuel expense to $28 per megawatt hour for the year.
Commodity margin also benefited from higher capacity revenues for our generation fleet in connection with transitioning the ATSI zone from MISO to PJM a reduction in purchase power prices and fewer bilateral purchases.
And sales of renewable energy credits increased slightly despite higher costs imposed by renewable obligation requirements.
Negative drivers of commodity margin included increased capacity expense as a result of FES serving more retail load higher congestion network and transmission line loss expense in PJM lower contract generation sales as FES continues to successfully execute its strategy of reducing POLR sales as it increases to serve more retail customers and a 23% reduction in FES wholesale electricity sales.
Looking at the FES sales position our direct sales force continues contracting 2012 sales and currently stands at 85% of that target while 2013 sales are at 47%.
Now turning to distribution deliveries.
Deliveries were up 2% overall with a 6.5% increase in industrial deliveries.
A slight decrease in the still nagging commercial market offset a modest increase in residential sales.
Third quarter cooling degree days were 2% lower than in 2010 but 30% above normal.
Third quarter industrial sales growth was driven by a 9% increase in demand from steel manufacturers which are benefiting from the demand related to the Marcellus Shale drilling while the automotive segment is down 3% year-over-year.
We've seen certain pockets in that sector continue to grow such as the Lordstown Ohio GM plant which manufactures the Chevy Cruze and is now running 3 shifts in overtime.
But we also saw the closure of a Ford plant in Ohio at the end of 2010.
While the increase in distribution deliveries had no material impact on earnings compared to the third quarter of 2010 the industrial growth is encouraging and certainly consistent with our earlier expectation that industrial sales will continue to increase in the second half of the year.
Through the third quarter of 2011 industrial sales were up 4% and what's even more encouraging is that industrial sales for the first 9 months of 2011 are only 1% lower than the same period of 2007 which was the peak industrial sales year.
Moving now to an overview of our progress towards our financial targets.
This spring we described our plans to deliver solid financial results in 3 ways.
Consistent earnings positive cash flow and an improved balance sheet.
Additionally we outlined our strategies to grow our competitive business and achieve benefits from the merger.
I am pleased to report we continue making solid progress executing our strategy on all fronts.
As we stated on our second quarter earnings call we narrowed our guidance for 2011 non-GAAP earnings to $3.30 to $3.50.
We remain confident in that guidance and as Tony outlined we are very pleased with our progress to capture merger synergies.
We fully expect to be right on the annual merger target of $210 million by the end of the year.
Looking at debt reduction.
Through September we have reduced long-term debt and short-term debt by about $1.7 billion.
In addition we expect to reduce debt by an additional $700 million in the fourth quarter which includes the deconsolidation of debt associated with Signal Peak bringing the full year total to approximately $2.4 billion.
The restructuring in renewal and completion of our $5 billion revolving credit facilities provide us a significant level of liquidity which stood at $5.7 billion as of the end of last week.
With regard to the divestiture of non-core assets we have completed the sales that we outlined in May and we are extremely pleased with the outcome of these transactions.
We reported the Fremont sale last quarter and 2 weeks ago we completed the divestitures of the Richland and Stryker units and our share of interest in the Signal Peak coal mine located in Montana.
The Signal Peak deal is complex so I'll spend a few minutes on it.
As we reported on October 18 a subsidiary in the Gunvor Group one of the world's largest leading commodity traders purchased a 1/3 interest in the coal mine for $400 million.
This transaction has a number of significant benefits.
On the financial side we received $260 million of the proceeds.
Further the transaction will allow us to deconsolidate Signal Peak from our balance sheet which will result in a $365 million debt reduction and a $50 million increase to equity.
Finally a $370 million after-tax gain on the transaction will be recognized in the fourth quarter 2011 GAAP earnings.
In total the combination of equity increases and debt reduction results in more than $1 billion in added strength to our capital structure and moves our balance sheet in a very positive direction.
On the operating side this transaction also maximizes the mine and rail investments and we will be able to utilize the Gunvor Group's commodity trading relationships including its arrangements with Westshore Terminals in Vancouver to sell more high-quality low sulfur bituminous coal to such markets as Japan China Korea and Chile.
As part of the agreement we have also revised our original coal purchase agreement from 7.5 million short tons annually to an obligation to accept up to 2 million each year of the mine's production.
Overall the production forecast of Signal Peak including future service operations is in the range of 10 million to 15 million short tons per year which can be sold to Gunvor as well as to existing domestic and international customers.
In total the Signal Peak and Richland Stryker divestitures added more than $340 million to our overall liquidity and we will continue using that cash to reduce our net debt position.
As you can tell from our financial results our team remains focused on delivering on our financial commitments executing our strategy and building a strong foundation for our overall future success.
Thanks for listening and now I'd like to open up to the call for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on the comments you made about the coal contract restructuring.
Mark I think you had said $28 a megawatt hour would be -- you're on track for that number? Does that include the $0.18 gain effectively in the annual fuel cost? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And so how should we think about that as we move forward into next year? Is there a kind of annualizing effect? Are you anticipating further restructurings? Yes.
We have a number of fuel contracts in the process of being restructured and of course we're always open to restructuring coal contracts.
So the short answer would be yes.
Research Division</strong> So we're going to be at this $28 number partly courtesy of the gains on the restructurings? Or is that really where the underlying costs are actually shaking out? I'm not certain I understand.
Are you asking if our fossil fuel costs will stay at $28 per share? Research Division</strong> You've given this guidance that it stays reasonably flat around that level.
Yes we said that they're going to stay reasonably flat.
I think I would say they're going to be consistent with what we said back in May.
Research Division</strong> But is that because of the gains on contract restructurings? Or is that because -- does that fade as a factor as you look forward? Yes Jonathan this is Bill Byrd.
At any point in time there are different drivers to the fuel expense.
The $28 will reflect selling allowances one quarter and a contract restructuring the next quarter.
It's all part of the fuel expense that we report.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just had a similar question about the fuel contract.
I work out that $0.18 a share on a pretax basis is about $100 million of savings which works out to about 15% of your fuel expense in the quarter.
How much of the $0.18 was a one-off benefit from the restructuring and how much will stay with us in future years? Well I think Hugh I guess -- this is Tony.
I guess the best way to answer that is we've laid out the expectations for fuel over the next 3 years and we said they're essentially going to be flat.
So we'll be taking advantage of whatever opportunities we have to drive fuel savings whether it's through restructuring contracts reopeners or new contracts and -- or changing fuel mixes to maintain that basic cost per megawatt hour that we laid out earlier.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So this was a below-market contract.
Is that right? Yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And what -- how did you restructure it to save money? Oh we took advantage of the price and restructured over a longer term.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then you were able to take to earnings this quarter the benefit of the restructuring over the term of the contract? Correct.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Turning gears to Ohio real quick.
Could you guys just share your thoughts on kind of how these government aggregation efforts are going to go if AEP's successful in getting their settlement implemented as they proposed.
Well the community will vote next Tuesday.
I would expect if they follow the same pattern as many other communities in Ohio they're likely to vote in support of government aggregation because it produces lower prices for them as they gain more bargaining leverage in those transactions.
AEP's settlement as proposed will likely limit the ability of those communities and those customers to take advantage of the competitive market and/or their aggregation votes that they've put in place.
So they're either going to be very much delayed and very much unhappy that they're not going to have those savings as early as they otherwise would because I don't believe the numbers and caps that the AEP plan has will accommodate very much more shopping.
Research Division</strong> So how do you guys go about trying to pursue those customers in the absence of a final resolution.
Do you guys sign nonbinding contracts? Or is it something that -- an option that is going to kind of pass from your opportunity because you don't know what's going to happen with AEP? Well I think we try to work with the customers.
Some of the communities were -- obviously are working today on whether or not if they get the legislation -- legislative authority to move forward.
They are further along the path.
Other communities are probably waiting until -- to determine whether or not the voters support it.
And then you'll have to put that in the space of whether or not they will qualify under the AEP plan.
Obviously the plan if the Cincinnati plan or the synergy plan is approved Duke Ohio's plan is approved then those communities will have access to the competitive markets as early as January 1.
Dan this is Mark.
I would only add that in some cases our retail people are helping the communities organizing around what it takes to aggregate what it takes to get it on the ballot and building relationships in anticipation of hopefully the success of those ballots.
Research Division</strong> If there is a delay in shopping in AEP's territories is that going to affect your targets kind of over the next 1 or 2 years as far as what your customer mix is going to look like relative to what you guys laid out this spring? No we have a lot of places to sell whether that's moving towards west into Illinois or further east into PJM and as you know that was one of the benefits of the Allegheny transaction itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I guess just one more question.
I hate this to be an AEP conference call but the idea that they can build generation in array base and kind of just subvert the competitive process is laid out by PJM in the settlement.
How do you guys see that playing out? And is there a prospectively a legal challenge you can pursue if they are successful in getting that put into their settlement? Dan there's a lot of avenues that you can pursue with that type of proposal.
The -- obviously the very first hurdle is they still have to meet the requirements in the state of Ohio which says you have to have a need in order to be able to justify that type of process and I suspect that need is going to be -- will be highly challenged and very difficult to prove when you don't have an obligation to serve.
And I would add Dan participating in auctions outside your own service territory.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> The hairline cracks on the architectural element of the Davis-Besse stuff I understand that's clearly not an issue that pertains to the viability of the point of having it there but what about the other cracks you found? Can you elaborate a little bit on that and explain why there will only be a modest delay in the restart? Well we haven't even talked about a delay at restart at all as far as I know.
We think we'll be able to resolve the other indications that have come up and still are holding at this point to a restart date by the end of -- or towards the end of November.
Research Division</strong> So logistically what is the sort of process for determining that you can continue on your current schedule and get restarted on schedule? Like what has to happen for the NRC to sort of sign off on that? In the main this is going to be evaluated by Davis-Besse experts as well as experts we've brought in from the outside and we'll be looking at it as part of our CAPS (sic) [CAP] program to reach resolution in much the same way we've pretty much reached resolution with respect to the architectural elements at this point.
The evaluations are continuing and again at this point we see no reason to believe that this unit will not be back online by the end of November.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just to get an idea here with the restructuring of the coal contract and your sale of the coal mine interest.
Are you guys thinking that perhaps coal prices might be declining and that this is a good time to monetize? Or is there any outlook that you guys have on that with respect to these activities? Or is it just sort of -- they just coincide with each other and...
Well I think we've been fairly consistent with regarding the Signal Peak that it was non-core and it was never our intent to own it.
I would say they were more coincidental than anything and as you know we generally don't discuss our view on forward coal prices as viewing that as competitive.
But I would say Paul it was more of a coincidence that they occurred at the same time.
And then the second thing is the POLR auction that came out recently in your service territory any thoughts about what was happening there? And thanks a lot for the shopping statistics that you guys provided in your release but any more information you can give us in terms of what you're seeing just trend wise? I mean I saw what your -- what has happened with respect to the retail margin but just in general sort of going forward what you guys are seeing in terms of that? How competition -- if you could just maybe elaborate a little bit on that the competitive environment that you're dealing with both in the POLR and the retail sales.
Paul this is Bill Byrd.
As far as the POLR auction it was clearly competitive.
There were multiple bidders and multiple winners.
As far as the pricing went you've got to adjust for the different capacity components.
This auction had a much lower capacity component than prior auctions and there were slight changes in the product in how transmission expense was treated.
But when you make that as adjustments it appears to us that there's a consistency or firming of the energy component of the auction price which is a positive sign as far as we're concerned.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow-up on Greg's question a little bit there.
Just in terms of added cost with regards to call it remediation if you will or what have you at Davis-Besse how did that look? I mean you've talked about the schedule but what in terms of sort of motions do you need to move through if you will to get there? Our current analysis shows that the hairline cracks are acceptable as is and will not impact the structural integrity of the shield building thus no remediation would be necessary.
Research Division</strong> And secondly you discussed CSAPR and don't intend to update too much.
You're ahead of finalization of MACT but I wanted to get your latest sense first on your own dispatch; secondly on accelerated plant retirements and perhaps just on moving forward those or conceptually sort of seeing -- have MACT move forward as proposed currently.
And then finally do you think it's adequately reflected in carryforwards particularly in your regions? Well I'm not going to speculate on what the plans are going to be in terms of how the evaluation will turn out after or whatever the MACT rules are when they come through.
Now we're going to take a look at all the information we have and we'll make the appropriate decision to -- for FirstEnergy at that point.
I think it's kind of mixed.
We've seen some indications like Bill talked about earlier of energy prices seeming to be firming up.
I still think it's -- not everyone yet appreciates the impact these rules will have on the generating fleet and until those become clearer depending on the individual positions of the generating owners I think it's hard to say whether or not they're fully reflected in the marketplace.
Much of it is going to depend on how fast the economy improves and secondly what specific actions are taken at specific units and where they are located potentially on the grid and how that might affect market prices going forward.
It's pretty complex.
My sense is it's not all being factored in at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate it.
Then finally last follow-up on the prior question you suggested if Ohio perhaps isn't as available if you will given some of the limitations we've discussed you said looking eastwards.
Where would eastwards be if you will just to be a little bit more specific in terms of the states of opportunities? Met-Ed's service territory in part but primarily more aggressively in the Penelec West Penn Power Duquesne service territory and into Northern Maryland perhaps into Central Maryland.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Have you completed your assessment at Davis-Besse? Or are you still kind of looking around maybe taking core samples or ultrasound probing? The inspections have wrapped up and we are now completing our evaluation to determine the final acceptability of the hairline cracks.
We anticipate having the final acceptability for the 2 remaining localized regions complete by the end of the week.
Research Division</strong> And how should we think about this with regards to the relicensing process? I'm not going to speculate what the NRC may conclude with respect to relicensing the plant.
Obviously operating experience will factor into the NRC's decisions but that's what our corrective action process is for and our root cause process is engaged with right now.
Our next question comes from Adam Aron [ph] with Millennium Partners.
It's David Frank [ph].
I had a question maybe for you or Mark on how much of the 10 million to 15 million tons of production at Signal Peak is that the entire mine's output? Is that just what you guys -- attributable to your JV? Or does that include all Gunvor everything? That's the total output both the underground and the surface mining.
That's everything.
And at what point do you -- or is that sort of its maximum output? Would you expect volumes to increase? Is there a target for output from the mine? Right now David those are kind of the current targets we have assuming what we believe we can do with the underground operations as structured today as well as what we believe we can do with the surface opportunities that are in and around that facility.
Whether or not it has any greater potential long term I mean it's a wonderful piece of property with lots of reserves and it's just a question of how you deploy and when you go about trying to capture them at any point in time.
So right now this is -- you kind of set your game plan get the long-term underground facilities in place allow the markets to develop as well as our ability to ship that coal primarily into Asian markets or elsewhere and then take advantage of that by expanding our operations at that facility to capture those margins available in those markets.
Right.
Okay so you brought me to my next question which is I guess is all 10 to 15 essentially going to Asian markets? You're able to get that out through Vancouver or...
No no no we're not even at that production level yet.
So there's no surface operation yet at Signal Peak and the mine is -- while the mine is approaching operating at close to that level in terms of close to a 10-million-ton a year level of production we're not quite there yet.
And we're still in a very -- I wouldn't call it the very early stages but the mine is still going through its development phase.
It's not even yet to its longest panels or best panels in terms of the coal seam that we will be accessing the next time we make a longwall move.
David this is Mark.
I would just -- well beyond the financial positives of the transaction I mean having Gunvor as a partner along with the operating team at the mine gives us an awful lot of optionality in terms of what we can and can't do as the mine continues to develop.
Our next question comes from the line of Raymond Leung with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A lot of my operational questions were asked particularly on Davis-Besse but a couple of finance stuff.
Can you talk a little bit about -- I think you've mentioned some debt reduction of $700 million.
We have like $360 million tied with the deconsolidation so does that mean you're going to pay down the whole co debt with cash? And can you talk about the Allegheny Energy Supply maturity and what you guys are thinking about doing there in March? And the last thing is can you talk about any update on potentially combining Allegheny Energy Supply and FE Solutions? And any updated thought process there would be appreciated.
Yes the $360 million deconsolidation then there's a $250 million whole co debt which Jim plans on paying down in cash.
The AE supply transaction will also be done in cash.
And I think your last question had to do with merging the 2 entities together.
That's something that's for tax purposes.
We're not going to talk about until we get through that period of time.
Research Division</strong> And how long is that period for tax purposes? Is that one year? Harvey.
We'll be able to talk about that in 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins with State of Winsconsin Investment Board.
First just one quick one on the Davis-Besse cracking situation.
To return that plant to service at the end of November do you need to get a go-ahead from the NRC or at this point is that entirely your decision based on the current circumstances? Dan this is Pete Sena.
The NRC as you know continues to monitor our activities and they have access to the same facts that we do.
No approval from the regulator is required but of course we do expect them to review our conclusions.
Okay and then I just had a couple of questions on the detailed information you laid out on Page 3 of the release just how we should kind of think about that going forward.
In particular in Subpart C you mentioned that June and the increase the $0.12 there was in part due to the new capacity revenues beginning June 11.
Should that -- will that continue through June of '12 or how should we think about that? I would say yes but it could go up and down depending on the mix customer mix but generally I would in short I would say yes.
And then similarly on the fuel expenses.
You mentioned that the fuel contract restructuring in the third quarter increased by $0.18 per share so would that benefit continue through to the next 3 quarters? Again Dan with respect to that when we talk about fuel we talk about -- our target is about -- I think it's $28 a megawatt hour.
That's our target for the next 3 years in terms of what our fuel costs are going to be.
So this item that occurs this time will be substituted with something else.
As you go in time the whole fuel cost's relatively flat.
Okay and then I was curious on the O&amp;M part you mentioned that that was divided between outage expenses and I think incentive comp but since the incentive comp can be kind of lumpy can you break out what -- how much was for the outages and how much was for the incentive comp? Dan this is Harvey Wagner.
I'm going by memory here but I think the incentive comp was about $0.02 a share.
It was about 1/3 third of that.
And as you know that's all based on where we are with regard to our financial and operational targets.
As we progress through the year it can go up or down.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
Before we conclude I'm sure you saw our announcement this morning that Ron Seeholzer has been named Vice President of Financial Planning for FirstEnergy Solutions and Irene Prezelj has been promoted to Vice President of Investor Relations effective today.
I'm confident that Ron's experience which encompasses public accounting internal auditing budgeting and financial forecasting in addition to his IR responsibilities will help enhance our financial planning forecasting and analysis at FES.
And I'm sure you recognize that Irene has been a very trusted liaison for the investment community since she joined the IR team in 2008.
She has a tremendous depth of knowledge about the company and her promotion ensures a smooth leadership transition in this very important area.
As always we appreciate your continued support and interest in FirstEnergy and Tony Ron Irene and I along with other members of our team look forward to seeing many of you at the EI conference next week.
Thank you very much for being with us today.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.'s First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Beringer you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good afternoon.
During this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Clark Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Jim Pearson Vice President and Treasurer; Harvey Wagner Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Bill Byrd Vice President Corporate Risk and Chief Risk Officer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President of Investor Relations.
I will now turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thanks Meghan and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
We will be reporting first quarter results and quite frankly they were solid despite the very mild temperatures that Mark will discuss in more detail.
Based on these results and our continued confidence in our business strategy we are reconfirming 2012 and 2013 non-GAAP earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.60 per share and $3.10 to $3.40 per share respectively.
Turning now to a review of recent events.
I'll start with an update on our actions to address new environmental regulations including the plant retirements we announced earlier this year and the current cost expectation for compliance with those regulations at our remaining fleet.
Finally I'll look at recent state regulatory issues.
Then Mark will discuss first quarter results including recent economic activity across our region and review our retail strategy.
Okay let's get started.
As you know we announced plans earlier this year to retire units at 9 of our older coal-fired plants by September 1 2012 as a result of the new EPA Mercury and Air Toxics Standards otherwise known as MATS and other environmental regulations.
This includes units at 6 competitive plants in Ohio and Pennsylvania and 3 regulated plants in West Virginia.
As a part of this process PJM Interconnections conducted a review to determine the impacts these retirements could have on system reliability.
In March to address PJM's preliminary reliability concerns we filed an application proposing approximately 800 megawatts of new combustion turbine peaking generation to be installed at our existing Eastlake plant.
It is our intent to offer these units into PJM's capacity auction next week.
If they clear the auction we would begin construction efforts to meet a targeted in-service date of spring 2015.
In addition to bridge the ATSI region to early 2015 PJM's current planning assumption is for reliability must run arrangements or RMRs for Eastlake units 1 through 3 Lake Shore unit 18 and Ashtabula unit 5.
This involves a total of 885 megawatts which will help ensure reliable electric service for the Cleveland region.
We anticipate that the RMR arrangements will be structured so that PJM will compensate us to keep the units available for operation through early 2015.
At that time we plan to go forward with retiring those units.
In addition to the RMRs and the new combustion turbine generation at Eastlake our transmission group working with PJM has identified a number of transmission projects that can be implemented over the next several years and are expected to also improve reliability in the ATSI zone.
While we do not have final estimates for the cost of these transmission projects we are currently projecting a capital spend of between $700 million and $900 million over the next 4 to 5 years.
We expect to earn a return on these transmission investments from the time we begin construction.
The remaining competitive units slated for retirement Eastlake units 4 and 5 Bay Shore units 2 through 4 Armstrong and R.
Paul Smith are expected to be retired as planned by September 1 of this year.
The 3 West Virginia plants included in these announcements are regulated and we have provided the West Virginia Public Service Commission with information regarding the plant deactivations.
We also anticipated deactivating these units by September 1.
I know many of you are closely following the PJM capacity auction scheduled for next week.
Just so we're all clear we cannot and will not predict the pricing outcome of that auction.
We believe the actions we are taking building 800 megawatts of combustion turbine capacity at Eastlake and the transmission reliability projects will benefit the region.
We continue to fully support and encourage a utilization of competitive market mechanisms to provide the appropriate incentives to all market participants.
Turning now to the investment required to address MATS at our remaining coal fleet.
At our analyst meeting we told you Jim Lash's team identified lower cost solutions and allowed us to cut our anticipated expenditures roughly in half from $2 billion to $3 billion in our original estimate down to $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion.
As we continue to find alternative approaches to meeting these requirements including the possibility of coal firing certain units with natural gas I can say that we are now comfortable with the lower end of the revised range.
We expect to finalize our plans later this year and we will continue our efforts to further reduce these costs if possible.
Looking now at regulatory issues starting with New Jersey where the Board of Public Utilities has requested information about JCP&amp;L's earned rate of return we have received a procedural schedule from the BPU and filed a brief supporting JCP&amp;L's position.
We expect a board response in June.
We provide financial information to the BPU quarterly and we continue to believe that JCP&amp;L's electric rates are just and reasonable and that the Rate Council's request does not provide sufficient reason for the BPU to order a base case rate at this time.
Turning now to Ohio.
In April our Utilities filed an application with the PUCO for a 2 year extension through May of 2016 of our very successful Electric Security Plan.
If approved the extension would continue to allow Ohio Edison Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and Toledo Edison Company to establish retail generation prices for their standard service customers through a competitive bid process.
While similar to the process now used by those companies the proposed expansion will take the last 2 auctions under the current plan which are scheduled for this coming October and January of next year and extend the delivery time frame from 1 year to 3 years.
This is expected to benefit the Ohio customers by mitigating potential price volatility that may otherwise occur.
The current ESP which has been in place since June of 2011 has resulted in price certainty lower prices and more than $10 million in annual economic development funding and low income assistance to FirstEnergy's utility customers and communities in Ohio.
More than 20 parties including the majority of those who were signatories on our existing ESP have supported the new ESP.
PUCO has a set of plans to hold hearings on our plan starting on May 21.
If our proposed plan is approved in June we would have the opportunity to capture lower wholesale generation prices and blend those market-based power prices throughout the new ESP period.
Also in Ohio FirstEnergy Solutions continues to be a strong advocate for competition in the Dayton Power &amp; Light market rate offer and AEP Ohio's Electric Security Plan cases.
In particular AEP wants to restrict shopping in its territory by imposing above market capacity charges on competitive suppliers.
These charges would severely limit the savings customers in the AEP territory including a number of large governmental aggregation communities that passed ballot measures last fall would otherwise achieve from competitive markets and in fact amounts to a windfall for AEP.
We expect that PUCO to make a decision on the AEP case by mid-summer.
Now I'll turn this over to Mark for a review of first quarter.
Thanks Tony.
And like Tony I'd like to welcome everyone this afternoon.
Today I will discuss first quarter results and as part of that discussion I'll touch on recent economic activity in our region and the continued progress of our retail strategy.
As Tony mentioned we delivered solid results during the quarter excluding special items first quarter 2012 non-GAAP earnings were $0.82 per share compared to $0.75 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
On a GAAP basis this quarter's earnings were $0.73 per share compared to $0.15 per share in the same period last year.
I'll take a moment to remind you that earnings for the first 9 months of 2011 as well as earlier periods were revised in connection with our adoption of the change announced in January in the method of accounting for pensions and other post-employment benefit plans.
Moving on now to a review of our first quarter results.
As in the past it may be helpful for you to refer to the consolidated report to the financial community we issued this morning.
First I'll take a moment to review the special items from the first quarter of 2012 which are detailed on Page 4 of the report.
Special items have the net impact of decreasing this quarter's GAAP earnings by $0.09 per share.
By comparison in the first quarter of 2011 special items reduced GAAP earnings by $0.60 per share.
Special items in the first quarter of 2012 included benefit of $0.06 per share for mark-to-market adjustments which was offset by a $0.05 per share charge related to plant closings which includes both revenue and expenses as well as activities in preparation to deactivating the units.
A $0.04 per share decrease in earnings related to merger accounting for commodity contracts and a $0.02 per share related to tax legislative changes.
There were also 4 special items that each reduced GAAP earnings by $0.01 per share.
They were the impairment of nuclear decommissioning trust securities merger costs the impact of non-core asset sales and impairments and regulatory charges.
Turning now to the other first quarter drivers which are highlighted on Page 1 of the consolidated report.
As we walk through these we will once again discuss FirstEnergy on its stand-alone basis with the impact from Allegheny separated.
Since there was only 1 month of the Allegheny results included in the first quarter 2011 beginning next quarter our total company results will be presented in a combined year-over-year format.
And in fact the Allegheny contribution is one of the positive drivers of the first quarter as it continues to be accretive to earnings including the impact of shares issued in conjunction with the transaction.
On a merger-related note over the last weekend of March we successfully completed the integration of our ITN business networks which include about 100 different systems.
While this was and will be a significant synergy item it was also an important cultural milestone for our employees.
It was a tremendous effort.
I'm proud of our entire team for accomplishing this task in a remarkably short period of time.
Another positive driver was lower operating costs.
Last year we had a first quarter refueling outage at Beaver Valley Unit 2.
This year we benefited from having all of our nuclear units in service as well as from lower costs in our Fossil operations.
And the final positive items were lower interest expense and revenue linked to excise taxes.
Moving now to items that reduced first quarter results and since it was such a significant factor during the quarter I'll start with a discussion of the weather.
Nationally this was the fourth warmest winter in the last 117 years and the warmest month of March since 1950.
We certainly experienced the same conditions in our region where heating degree days were 25% below 2011 levels and 22% below normal.
In fact when we look at the impact of abnormal whether on our company as a whole including all 10 utility companies and generation sales the cumulative impact was $0.12 per share this quarter.
Obviously this affects our full year earnings forecast but as Tony said earlier we are reaffirming our guidance for 2012 and 2013 based on the strong performance of our retail business.
Let's now turn to the distribution deliveries which reduced earnings by $0.05 per share.
The extremely mild weather resulted in a 4% decrease in total distribution deliveries.
Residential deliveries decreased 8% while commercial deliveries were down 2% and industrial deliveries were relatively flat for the company as a whole.
However consistent with the recent trend of growth in certain pockets of the regional economy industrial activity continues to improve in Ohio.
Sales to that group were up 3% versus the first quarter of 2011.
As a number of our steel customers expand to meet demand from shale gas exploration including a new mill at  the Republic Steel facility in Lorain Ohio.
As you know our service territory sits directly atop both the Marcellus and the Utica shale formations.
In addition to jobs and growth in the steel sector this is also translating into an uptick in investment associated with drilling activity and infrastructure in our Pennsylvania and Ohio service areas.
The state of Ohio had the fourth largest increase in job growth in the nation in 2011 and data is showing that 9% of the new employment is related to shale exploration.
It's encouraging to see growth in our region and like everyone else we are hoped to continue seeing more positive signs especially in the commercial and residential sectors.
Let's move now to commodity margin which decreased earnings by $0.02 per share overall this quarter.
As always when we discuss commodity margin we're talking about the interplay of many different components.
In each quarter we like to break out the positive and the negatives.
A detailed summary can also be found on Pages 2 and 3 of the consolidated report including additional information on megawatt hour volumes.
Before I get into the individual elements of commodity margin I'll note that generation output from our ongoing competitive fleet which excludes those units we plan to retire or deactivate decreased by 2.4 million megawatt hours or 13% compared to the first quarter of 2011 reflecting lower demand and soft power prices.
Nuclear output increased due to the absence of any refueling outage in the quarter.
This was offset by a lower output from our supercritical fossil generation and lower utilization of our subcritical fleet which continues to be impacted by low natural gas prices.
While our coal inventory increased with the decline of Fossil output we also took advantage of certain market opportunities to build our inventory above what we would consider typical levels for this time of year.
This had a negative impact on cash in the first quarter which we expect to reverse over the remainder of the year.
Let's move on to the 5 items that decreased commodity margin.
These include: increased capacity expense as a result of FES serving more retail load; higher purchased power cost chiefly related to economic purchases; a reduction in FES wholesale electricity sales to the spot market; lower sales of Renewable Energy Credits; and finally a decrease in net financial hedges associated with the FES sales in generation portfolio.
Looking now at the 4 positive elements of commodity margin.
First our generation fleet earned high-capacity revenues in connection with ATSI's June 2011 transition from MISO to PJM.
We also experienced lower PJM congestion network and transmission line loss expense.
Fuel expenses were lower primarily related to the impact weather had on demand.
And finally FirstEnergy Solutions continues to successfully execute its retail strategy by hedging or selling forward to retail customers and by shifting sales volumes within and among retail channels we believe we have significantly mitigated the financial impact of the weakness in the wholesale markets.
Contract sales increased 9% in the quarter as FES experienced a 28% increase in direct sales a six-fold increase in NAS market sales and nearly 1 million megawatt hour increase in structured sales.
A significant portion of the growth in direct and NAS market sales took place outside our traditional footprint in markets including Central and Southern Ohio Pennsylvania Illinois Michigan and New Jersey.
Government aggregation sales were lower for the quarter as the result of weather but FES continues to successfully expand this channel.
In fact you'll recall that 50 communities in Central Ohio voted to adopt governmental aggregation for their electric service last November.
FES won 42 of those contracts or about 90% of those communities that have selected a supplier and began service to some of those communities during the first quarter.
While FES had a similar impact associated with weather their success at increasing the movement of sales from polar to direct and the movement within and across channels essentially offset a portion of the negative weather impact.
FirstEnergy Solutions' hedged position for the balance of 2012 is now at 91% and we are at 60% for 2013.
Let me close with a brief overview of our financing activities.
As I referenced earlier we are in the process of putting together a new $1 billion transmission company credit facility and extending our existing $4.5 billion credit facility by 1 year through 2017 which will provide us with a solid liquidity position going forward.
We are also in the process of negotiating the early buyout of the 1987 Bruce Mansfield sale leaseback arrangement which will take a future obligation off the table opportunistically.
And finally this quarter we plan to file an application seeking a financing order with the PUCO under the new Ohio securitization legislation as we've already announced.
Together these initiatives continue our progress towards the financial initiatives outlined last year and at our February Investor Day.
Combined these initiatives place us in a much stronger position for the increase in capital program over the next several years.
As Tony mentioned we are aggressively managing our MACT spend and now expect to be at the low end of the $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion range we announced at the February analyst meeting.
That is well down from the initial $2 billion to $3 billion estimate and importantly we continue to evaluate options for further reductions.
We're also addressing incremental capital spending related to building 800 megawatts of combustion turbine generation at Eastlake as well as the projected transmission reliability investments all over the next 4 to 5 years.
Although we will continue to assess our overall capital program we are likewise evaluating our funding opportunities for these projects.
As Tony said we are pleased with our results for the quarter and more important we are confident that we are on track to meet our goals and guidance for the year.
Thanks for listening.
And now I'd like to open up the call to your questions.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Dan Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It looks like you guys are on course to get the customer shift you were looking for but the EPA issues have probably complicated the story a little bit.
If they were to be successful in front of commission and you do see the reversal in the shopping caps how would the mix shift that you guys saw this quarter potentially reshuffle if you started mitigating some of the contracts because the capacity prices got goofy? I think it wouldn't change our strategy at all.
I mean we've got aggregated communities that voted to aggregate.
As I said earlier Dan we've moved additional load into Pennsylvania Michigan Illinois.
So there are a lot of markets outside of Central Ohio but we're really pleased with where the retail group is and what they've been able to do particularly shifting megawatt hours within channels and into different markets.
So I don't think it would change what we're doing one iota.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the coal generation side with the low output on the sub-criticals and the super-criticals as well can you talk a little bit about your coal supply considerations and inventories and if you're continuing to shift your expectations for coal generation output for the year versus the analyst day? Yes I think that's a great question.
We are shifting our focus.
We had some opportunities to build up our coal inventory in the first quarter.
Those opportunities are no longer are there and we will be reversing that and actually burning down our inventory over the last 9 months of the year.
And on a cash basis we expect to end about where we thought at the beginning of the year.
So cash to cash it's about even.
We just took advantage of some opportunities and we're pleased where we are.
But a little long from where we would normally be but nothing out of the norm.
Research Division</strong> So we shouldn't be perpetuating the 16% utilization rate on the sub-criticals for the rest of the year I guess is the punchline? No I wouldn't.
Our next question is coming from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about the retail business.
It looks like you've had great success in expanding your sales there.
Could you talk a little bit about the competitive dynamics in the context of the pricing that you're getting on sales relative to -- as you see trends in power prices relative to hedge prices are you seeing the ability to weather the storm in terms of the economics of hedges relative to changes in just power prices which are driven by gas? Are you seeing that sort of as a -- is that turning out to be a good buffer or are hedges on that side following directly along with power price moves? I'd take for this year 91%'s already sold.
So it's not going to have much impact next year at 60%.
One of the avenues that we're using to address the power prices and I think our retail group's done a great job is understanding the margin within each channel within each EDC within each channel so we can move megawatt hours between EDCs to try to generate higher margin and then move between channels themselves to generate higher margin on the same megawatt hour so power prices being power prices what they are there is a certain reality to it but we're pretty comfortable with where we are we're getting away from the polar more on to the direct more contract extending some of the contracts out for longer terms.
I think we're pretty comfortable.
I don't know.
Bill do you want to add anything? I agree with everything Mark said.
It's 5 to 1 [ph] so I mention that the inevitably over time our retail revenue will reflect market conditions if they don't change but that movement to market will take years given our retail strategy.
It's not something that would occur very quickly.
Our next question's coming from Stephen Fleishman of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question regarding your comments on the funding some of the new projects such as the transmission.
At one point in time you had talked about potentially selling transmission or the like.
And I'm just curious if the funding opportunities could be something where you would think about separating out transmission in some way or is it more likely traditional sources? I think it's more traditional sources.
Transmission right now is a strong contributor to earnings.
It helps support the dividend.
It generates a nice return.
I think Jim is looking at the more traditional sources of funding.
I don't know if you want to speak to that.
But no I -- we're not looking at selling any transmission asset or anything like that.
We're just trying to fine tune what the MACT spend is going to be.
We're trying to fine tune what demand sell lease purchase price is going to be and in the context of all of that we'll be tweaking our overall funding strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one other question is just maybe I don't know if maybe Bill wants to address this but just the change in dynamics in PJM coal to gas switching some of the things they've seen.
Is it affecting in any significant way that the basis of your different generation assets that's meaningful to the value of those assets? Or is it not that big a difference? It's not really that big of a difference.
The basis has shrunk with the decrease in overall market levels but we aren't seeing anything that wouldn't be explained with consistent movement with the overall market.
Our next question is coming from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first on the transmission CapEx what you delineated there over the next 4 to 5 years in terms of timing is that sort of nearer term or is that toward of '15 '16 '17 spending primarily? That's a good question.
I just spoke to the head of our Utilities group yesterday about that question.
It's pretty even.
There's a little bump up in '14 a little bump to '15 but it's not outrageous or anything like that.
It's fairly smooth over the period of time but we're just really to be honest with you in the initial phases of it they're doing a lot of work we have asked them to look at different things.
This is probably similar to MATS.
We get into it we start looking at different options scenarios trying to figure out different ways to reduce our cost.
So it's I would say for planning purposes it's smooth but it is very very preliminary.
Research Division</strong> And how much of that is at risk around potential competitors trying to do comparable transmission projects it would seem? Well I think the utilities are going to do the projects or they could assign them to ATSI or TrAIL or one of those I don't I mean that thought's never even crossed my mind.
So...
Research Division</strong> That's a good sign.
And then frankly on cost-cutting looks like a pretty strong first quarter here.
What is the trend year-to-date? How are we looking maybe more structurally beyond that? I know you guys always kind of take a hard line.
I think one of the biggest benefits as we're still seeing the synergy savings I alluded to.
Having all of our systems integrated now means that all of our operating groups are on the same working platform.
It also means that we can start reducing the size of the IT staff because they're all integrated.
So I think those of you that know Tony know that he's never satisfied with us unless we're taking a hard look at all of our expenses.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a quick last one on DR.
You guys alluded to on the ESP with regards to potential bidding and some incremental into the upcoming auction but that depended on the timing of the approval.
Could you maybe talk about how much incremental DR you're thinking about I mean that's not asking about forecasting price or anything but just anecdotally between yourselves and others what you're kind of seeing out there? Hello this is Leila.
With respect to the demand response we would have needed a commission order before the capacity option.
Given the current schedule that is not going to happen.
So I would not anticipate any demand response being embedded into the capacity option.
And let me explain the rationale for that.
Our current ESP only goes -- it ends the day before the period of the next auction would start.
So in terms of what the Utilities would have to bid they don't have any customers they don't have a tariff that would be in place for that period of time so it would be impossible for them to bid any demand response into the auction.
So by missing the deadline at least that portion of what we had contemplated going forward within on the ESP would drop off.
But as Tony mentioned there are still other benefits associated with the ESP that would hopefully require a timely order by the commission.
Our next question is coming from Jonathan Arnold of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Hello guys.
I was just -- on the transmission investment again sorry to come back to this.
Could you give me a little bit more detail about what kinds of things these -- are they lines or is it upgrading of substations and the like? And are these upgrades embedded in the parameters that PJM modeled so when they did the remodel of the auctions.
So I know you've been in talks with them about how to address reliability.
So just curious how that works into the planning process.
Now Jonathan we can give you a little bit of detail on that and I think both of these projects have been identified as part of the PJM process.
So I'll give you a high level Bill can fill in the details.
But probably 3 major components.
One there'll be some substation enhancements that'll be added to the system.
So we'll be expanding several substations and perhaps even adding a couple in the process.
We plan on taking some of the existing generation resources that are being retired and adding or making them synchronized condensers and third would be long lines.
We have some open towers that we will be stringing additional wire on into the region and more longer-term probably an additional line into the Cleveland area.
So those are basically the components.
So it's really structural in terms of substations fold-in support through synchronous condensers and some additional lines going into the region.
Jonathan if you would contact our investor relations folks after the meeting they can provide you with a link to the PJM website.
PJM posted a document last Thursday that delineates each and every transmission project.
There's 4 to 5 dozen projects and additionally they can provide you with a link to a -- the meeting material from the PJM transmission expansion advisory committee meeting on Friday which gives you more detail and information on these projects that you can ever hope to digest.
Was my summary okay? I gave you the highlights you can get into the details later Jonathan.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm taking that to mean that then most of these are in a kind of they're out there and known about.
Yes 1 of the 3 buckets.
Research Division</strong> Okay and can I ask on one other thing.
I noticed in your commentary about sales in the quarter you'd sort of attributed the decline mostly to mild weather which seems to suggest that there was some underlying pressure on usage that that wasn't explained by weather.
Is that what you're saying and could you comment on such usage generally what you're seeing with customers? I think -- hopefully I said the opposite.
Weather was a significant driver.
Residential obviously is weather driven.
Commercial generally the smaller commercial is weather driven.
Industrials were flat.
Ohio industrials are up 3% and we're seeing a lot of good shifting of margin within and around the channels of the retail group.
So in the FES's case they've actually offset some of the weather impact.
So I would say it's the opposite.
Research Division</strong> Within distribution mark when you kind of made the comment about of just deliveries so not so much about your margins but just more what you're seeing in underlying trends.
I think the underlying trend for the quarter was weather.
And then industrials are flat across the system but up in Ohio.
Our head of our Utilities group mentioned to me this morning they're adding a third shift up at the Ford facility in Cleveland.
That's the first time they've had a third shift in I can't recall when.
Lordstown just got off 3 shifts working 24 hours a day.
You've seen a lot of investment activity.
I guess I'd have to say I'm optimistically positive.
Our next question is coming from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In your 2012 earnings guidance the uplift from a full year of Allegheny was $0.26 I believe and that looks like it dropped to $0.17.
What drove that just weather? I don't know.
Harvey? I would say it's just operations.
Right.
Research Division</strong> But that $0.26 was -- also has been captured in the first quarter correct? No I think weather in first quarter attributable to Allegheny was $0.02.
I'd have to sit and -- I don't know.
We can do a more granular analysis for you offline.
Give us a call after the call and we'll walk you through it.
Our next question is coming from Hugh Wynne from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have to say I was very impressed by your ability to maintain your commodity margin largely intact even as power output fell by 1/8.
That really shows the retail strategy paying off.
But my questions go to a couple of other points.
I want to understand the sustainability of some of the earnings gains you had particularly within commodity margin your net MISO PJM transmission turned into a contribution this year of $0.10.
And is that something that's likely to reverse? Is that related to the low levels of power demand? Or is it related to the re-dispatch plan from the low gas price environment? Or is this something that we can expect to see again in the future? Hugh this is Bill Byrd.
That's largely reduced congestion expense on the grid relative to historical periods.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I understand but is it something that we'd like to see or expect to see again? Or do you think it's related to the low level of power demand or the re-dispatch of the power plants? Or something that's likely to reverse in the future? I'm not sure I'd say it's likely to reverse but it certainly reflects current market conditions and will reflect future market conditions.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then similarly on your O&amp;M you mentioned that the O&amp;M expense is down partly due to the absence of the nuclear refueling and the lower Fossil O&amp;M expense.
Is that a gain in earnings power that we would likely see reduced in future if the load following plants would operate at more normal levels? I don't think so.
I think we'd look at whether we'd do an economic purchase or run our own units particularly the subcritical units.
Clearly we're better when the nukes are running they dispatch lowest possible cost of our fleet.
No I wouldn't say that would be the case.
I think we've done more economic purchases with some of the lower power prices.
Nukes are running flat out and the critical units are running itself.
No.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I don't think we're quite not talking about the same thing though.
I'm not talking about purchase power just the operation and maintenance expense.
Is the low operation and maintenance expense related to the low operation of the load-following plants? Well we're not going to spend money on overtime.
We're not going to spend a lot of money given the low power prices.
We're not going to accelerate units coming back online justified unless the price justifies itself.
If the price stays down we'll run the units commensurate with where the market is.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And consequently incur the lower O&amp;M? Yes yes.
Our next question is coming from Gregg Orrill of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the lower estimate for the MAC spending and what's behind that? Oh I think in the main Gregg we are pushing very hard at looking at all of the options that are available to us.
I think the first analysis was a essentially a capital solution.
The second analysis is what can we do to drive capital cost out and improve the overall operation of the plant.
So for example investigating using natural gas as a co-firing vehicle which reduces the amount of obviously it reduces the amount of emissions you have to treat and improves the overall efficiency of the equipment that is already on many of our large facilities.
So we're just continuing to push hard on the engineering and the alternatives that might be available to continue to operate the fleet inside the EPA requirements but with the least amount of capital as possible.
Sometimes I think it is as simple as challenging the assumptions and the concepts our engineers come up with.
Our next question is coming from Greg Gordon from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So you guys said earlier that you expected that you would burn down some of your coal inventory by year end.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And I'm just wondering as we think about your bidding -- your dispatch behavior in the market I mean right now we're in a shoulder period.
Gas is displacing ahead of coal.
We're going to get into summer and most of your power generation resources are going to be necessary to be utilized but wouldn't coal still be dispatching as a sort of a peak resource and wouldn't you be cycling down in the off-peak or how are you thinking about bidding behavior? Are you going to bid in at assuming spot price per coal the weighted average cost of coal? Explain to me how even with the dispatch order having flip-flopped you still expect to be able to run the plants at a relatively low cost and burn down these piles.
I'm just a little bit confused given what we sort of know to be what's happening in the marketplace.
I don't know if I said we were reversing our dispatch order.
We sold out 91% for '12 so we're going -- not to be selling a lot into the wholesale market anyways we weren't planning on it.
So now Bill you want to...? And I think it's -- we're aren't talking about any radical change in anything.
I think it's a change at the margin if you will during the past quarter and past winter.
Maybe if we could back pyre instead of generated and save $0.10 we would make that decision on a daily basis.
Going forward we'll put more emphasis on the wear and tear that that creates on the unit and that same decision going forward we would say let's generate the power and not buy it.
So I think it's just a slight change in emphasis and how to balance the cost and economics if you will on the margin.
Greg I think that to Bill's point if you assumed that coal was up maybe $100 million in cash for the quarter and we buy around $2.5 billion you can get a sense that we're not talking about big changes to get back in line.
Our next question is coming from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Just a follow-up on Hugh Wynne's question on the net MISO PJM transmission expense.
If I understood you guys correctly you see these market conditions are continuing and that benefits sort of going forward for some time is that correct? Is that how we should think about? Yes.
This is Bill Byrd.
One thing I forgot to mention in responding to Hugh another aspect of that decreased congestion is first quarter of '11 a lot of our plants were still in MISO.
Now they're all inside the fence of PJM and that helps not having to cross the interface helps tremendously with our congestion expense and that will be a sustainable benefit regardless of market levels.
Okay.
And then on the net financial sales and purchases that was sort of a negative $0.05.
Can you elaborate a little bit about that? I'll let Bill comment too but I mean you have the economic purchases and you have the revenue on the other side.
So I don't know if that's what you mean.
Well I'm just sort of wondering how we should think about that going forward? Primarily those financial purchases were basis swaps per hit basis hedges which were fixed for floating swaps.
So when our underlying basis expense was lower the hedge came out negative.
That makes sense.
Okay.
And then there was a court order that came out in Michigan with AEP's capacity formula rate case that you guys were a party to that you guys I think protested actually.
And there was an order that came out yesterday.
And I was wondering just what's your thought about that and perhaps the implications for how it might be related to what we see in Ohio with the deferred case that AEP has there which you guys are also I think involved in.
Any thoughts you'd like to share with us that? Paul this is Leila.
I haven't had an opportunity yet to read the order but my sense about it is that it's a good signal in that they indicated to AEP that the proposed pricing might be high.
There are a lot of good signals in that case so obviously we'll be looking to that going forward because I think you're right in that it could be setting a tone for what happens here in Ohio.
But I think what came out of Michigan yesterday was a positive side a very positive side.
Okay great.
And then just on the energy efficiency impact on the ATSI situation does it serve what the DR I guess that you were talking about earlier that I guess will not be bidded in now.
Could you give us a sense as to how much that was in megawatts? The demand response if you kind of look at what we have in our current ESP under the tariff roughly 200 megawatts.
So that will be the asset that has not bid in.
The energy efficiency component is actually a separate kind of thing.
That piece of it will likely be bid to the auction the upcoming auction.
Okay.
Great.
And then finally the distribution deliveries.
Did that -- did those figures include the leap year? I'm sorry if I missed that.
Yes.
Jackie how about if we take one more -- we have time for one more question.
Our last question is coming from Kit Konolige of Konolige Research.
LLC</strong> So maybe you could just review a little bit more you talked about the total of 5 negative deltas in the commodity margin and 4 positives.
Should we be able to think of these as some of the pluses and minuses being related or offsetting for example wholesale sales are down contracted sales are up fuel expense versus purchase power.
Can you discuss the offsets that kind of logically fit together there? Actually you were doing a pretty good job.
So there are offsets and I think you were just going right down the list.
If you do one you have the other.
Purchase power is maybe up for economic reasons but fuel will be down.
Wholesale as we close out our position in '12 and we're already over 90%.
You would expect to see lower wholesale sales and market has an effect on that as well.
So I think you've got it nailed pretty well.
Thank you.
And thank you all for joining us today.
We certainly appreciate your continued support and interest in FirstEnergy and thank you.
Thanks everyone.
Bye now.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you.
Ms.
Prezelj.
You may begin.
Thank you Latonya and good afternoon.
During this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.FirstEnergyCorp.com/ir.
Participating in today’s call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Clark Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Treasurer; and Harvey Wagner Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Tony.
Thanks Irene and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today I’ll provide an update on our plant and retail operations regulatory matters and the impact of recent storms.
I’ll finish with a discussion of our non-GAAP earnings guidance and then Mark will talk about our earnings drivers and provide the detail on our second quarter results.
Let’s get started with an update on our generating units.
As mentioned on previous occasions we’ve been rigorously evaluating the environmental controls that will be needed to meet the new environmental regulations including the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards rule or MATS that is scheduled to go into effect in 2015.
As a result of this analysis we have significantly reduced our projected capital investment related to MATS compliance.
We now estimate investment of about $975 million across our Fossil Fleet.
This is down from the $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion estimate we provided in February and well below our initial projections of $2 billion to $3 billion.
While we still have work to do to confirm and refine our current estimate we’re clearly moving in the right direction.
At the same time we’re moving forward with our previously announced plan to deactivate units at seven of our older coal-fired plants by September 1st of this year.
Again as a result of the MATS and other environmental rules the effective units are Eastlake 4 and 5 Bay Shore 2 3 and 4 and the Armstrong or R.
Paul Smith Albright Willow Island and Rivesville plants.
We expect to continue operating Eastlake 1 through 3 Lakeshore and Ashtabula until early 2015 coinciding with the conclusion of reliability must run or RMR arrangements with the PJM interconnection.
We filed with FERC regarding RMR compensation for these units in July.
As you recall we also proposed to construct four gas-fired simple cycle peaking units totaling 832 megawatts at the Eastlake plant.
This proposal was contingent on the capacity clearing the PJM capacity auction which was held in May.
However these units did not clear and as a result we will not proceed with their construction at this time.
As we make changes in our generating fleet we are moving forward with a number of transmission projects that have been approved by PJM and will be implemented over the next several years in practically all of our service territories Ohio Pennsylvania West Virginia New Jersey and Maryland.
A number of these projects are specifically designed to help address potential issues related to plant deactivations in the ATSI zone in northern Ohio.
One of those projects includes converting the Eastlake and Lake Shore units to synchronous condensers.
We are currently projecting a capital spend of $700 million to $900 million through 2016 for these transmission related projects across the five state region and we expect these transmission investments to be an important part of our growth going forward.
Now let’s move now to a review of current regulatory activity.
In New Jersey the Board of Public Utilities agreed with the rate counsel’s request for a base rate case for our JCP&amp;L utility.
We continue to believe that there is no basis for the rate counsel’s claims in fact JCP&amp;L’s rates have decreased by approximately 10% since 2008 and are the lowest electric rates among the four New Jersey electric distribution companies regulated by the BPU.
We’re preparing for our case and plan to file by November 1st as requested by the commission.
Looking at our Ohio operations last month the Public Utilities Commission approved our utility’s proposed electric security plan which is essentially a two-year extension of our current ESP.
The new ESP will be effective from June 2014 through May of 2016 and allows Ohio Edison Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and Toledo Edison to conduct power auctions to secure generation supply for a longer period of time for customers who do not shop.
This should help shield customers from potential price volatility by blending energy and capacity prices over the term of the plan.
Also in Ohio on July 2nd the PUCO issued an order in the AEP Ohio capacity case that will require AEP to charge competitive suppliers the RPM market price for capacity.
This eliminates the pricing capacity proposed by AEP that would have limited customer choice and increased prices.
We are cautiously optimistic that these actions will restore meaningful savings for all AEP Ohio customers who would like to receive service from a competitive supplier and will enhance the market available for FES.
But that decision will not be clear or entirely clear until the PUCO rules on the AEP’s modified electric security plan which is expected later this week.
Market based capacity pricing will give businesses and customers access to electric generation prices that are at historic lows.
FirstEnergy Solutions strongly advocated for customers’ right to shop and we believe that these changes if implemented in the right way will result in lower electric bills for customers an improved business climate in Ohio.
FirstEnergy Solutions continues to prove that competitive markets work.
For example FES increased its customer base by nearly 17% since the second quarter of 2011 producing a 16% increase in retail sales.
And while Mark will talk more about FES including an update on our hedged position for the remainder of 2012 and 2013 the continued success of our retail strategy is clear.
It is better positioning our company.
Even so we are facing very depressed prices.
And at the same time we’re addressing increased environmental costs and government mandates and policies that impact both the supply and demand of electricity.
We will work through these issues and I remain committed to further developing our retail operations and positioning the company to take advantage of improving economic conditions over time.
Finally let me spend a few minutes on the storms that cut through our utility service territories in late June and early July.
During the last weekend in June a straight-line windstorm called a Derecho something I never heard about tore across central Ohio Southwestern Pennsylvania Maryland and West Virginia service territories causing outages for 566 000 of our customers.
This windstorm with winds of up to 90 miles per hour caused the most significant damage our company has ever experienced on our transmission grid.
West Virginia was the hardest hit area with more than two-thirds of the 380 000 customers in our Mon Power service territory affected.
Restoring service proved very labor-intensive.
For example in one remote location crews had to replace 19 damaged poles to restore power to only a handful of customers.
While we were cleaning up from the Derecho another wave of thunderstorms brought on by the extreme heat caused major outrages in our Toledo Edison and Jersey Central service territories.
These outrages were resolved in a matter of days.
Total restoration costs are estimated to be in excess of $130 million substantiate all of those costs will be incurred in the third quarter.
Approximately 70% of the total cost of capital most of the remainder is expected to be deferred for future recovery.
We have deferral mechanisms in place in Ohio Pennsylvania and New Jersey and we expect to file for approval to defer the cost in West Virginia later this quarter.
As we announced this morning we are reaffirming our 2012 non-GAAP earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.60 per share.
While we remain confident in our long-term strategies we will continue to assess our operations particularly at our Fossil Fleet in light of the continued sluggish economy and its effect on power prices.
Now I’ll turn over to Mark for an in-depth look at the second quarter.
Mark? Thanks Tony and good afternoon everyone.
As Tony mentioned I’ll start with the review of second quarter results then I’ll provide an update on the continued success of our retail strategy and finally I’ll conclude with several comments on next year’s forecast.
Before I move on to the details of our second quarter results I’ll take this opportunity to remind you of several housekeeping items.
First this is the first quarter we’re presenting our total company results in a combined year-over-year format fully reflecting our merger with Allegheny Energy.
Second as we did last quarter we are normalizing the revenues expenses and output related to the deactivation of our older coal-fired units.
And finally with the integration of Allegheny into our automated financial reporting systems in the second quarter we’ve modified our regulated reporting segments to isolate all federally regulated transmission operations and state regulated distribution operations as separate segments.
Looking now at second quarter results excluding special items non-GAAP earnings were $0.60 per share compared to $0.70 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
On a GAAP basis this quarter’s earnings were $0.45 per share compared to $0.48 per share in the same period last year.
As we move to the detailed review of second quarter 2012 drivers it may be helpful for you to refer to the Consolidated Report to the Financial Community that was posted on our website this morning.
Special items for the second quarter are detailed on page four of the report.
These items have a net impact of decreasing GAAP earnings by $0.15 per share.
By comparison in the second quarter of 2011 special items reduced GAAP earnings by $0.22 per share.
Looking at the special items for the second quarter of 2012 a gain of $0.01 per share related to the impact of non-core asset sales was offset by the following six items.
A charge of $0.07 per share related to plant closing costs which includes revenues expenses and activities to prepare our older coal-fired units for deactivation as a result of environmental regulations; a $0.03 per share decrease in earnings related to merger accounting for commodity contracts; a $0.02 per share decrease related to tax legislative changes; an additional $0.02 per share decrease for mark-to-market adjustments; a $0.01 per share decrease for regulatory charges and finally a $0.01 per share decrease from the impairment of nuclear decommissioning trust securities.
Moving now to distribution deliveries.
While the earnings impact of distribution sales was flat compared to the second quarter of 2011 total deliveries increased slightly; however distribution deliveries have not recovered to the levels we saw in 2007 before the impact of the recession.
Industrial deliveries were up 3% and commercial deliveries also increased slightly.
In Ohio we continue to see improving industrial activity particularly in the steel and automotive industry.
In our other states sales are essentially flat.
These increases and any earnings impact were offset by a 1% decrease in residential deliveries.
We attribute this in part to customer conservation efforts in the face of the continuing tough economy where underemployment and unemployment remain a significant factor.
This trend seems to be consistent with what other utilities in our region are also reporting.
The impact of weather was slightly positive in the second quarter.
The reason for the negligible impact is that temperatures were comparable to those we experienced in the second quarter of 2011 – a relatively mild April and May followed by a very warm June.
Perhaps the best way to express this is by looking at second quarter 2012 cooling and heating degree days.
Heating degree days were 19% below normal and just 1% below last year while cooling degree days were 33% above normal but only 5% above 2011.
This trend continued in July: while cooling degree days across our utility service territory were up 39% above normal they were 3.5% below July of 2011.
Let’s turn now to the items that are highlighted in the earnings variance box on page one of the Consolidated Report.
There were three positive drivers.
The first is lower operating costs: while we did have more days in nuclear refueling outages they were offset by decreased cost in our ongoing fossil operation as a result of fewer planned outages in the second quarter of 2012 compared to the same period last year and the benefit of merger synergies and reduced storm costs in our energy delivery business compared to last year’s quarter.
Another earnings benefit was lower general taxes primarily due to lower gross receipts.
And finally we had lower interest expense as a result of recent financing activity.
Moving now to items that reduced second quarter results first depreciation costs increased and second we saw a reduction in other income which includes lower investment income from the nuclear decommissioning trust and the absence of revenue in the second quarter of 2012 from the sale of pole attachment lease rights in June of 2011.
I’ll conclude our earnings discussion with a review of commodity margin which is detailed on pages two and three of the consolidated report.
In that report you’ll also find additional information on megawatt hour volumes.
To start actual generation output from our ongoing competitive fleet increased by 1.2 million megawatt hours compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Both nuclear and fossil plant utilization increased resulting from fewer refueling outage days across our entire fleet in this quarter compared to the same period last year.
Fuel expense was down for the quarter while purchase power was up essentially offsetting each other for the quarter.
While commodity margin had a net negative impact of $0.09 per share this reflects the interplay of various positive and negative components and overall we remain very pleased with the performance of our competitive business FirstEnergy Solutions.
You will note that contract sales increased 6% over the second quarter of 2011.
Achievements in the quarter included further expansion into the competitive markets in Illinois Michigan New Jersey and Maryland as well as growth in both the large and medium commercial and industrial account segments.
Looking more closely at the industrial sales channel we achieved a 16% increase in direct sales a 3.5 fold increase in mass market sales and structured sales that increased slightly as new load acquired outsider traditional utility footprint offset the expiration of some municipal and co-op contracts.
I think I said industrial sales channels but I meant to say individual previously I apologize.
While government aggregation megawatt hours sales decreased slightly we began delivering power to 25 additional communities in central and southern Ohio during the second quarter.
One important point to make is that during the second half of the year we will begin to deliver power under newly signed aggregation contracts with another 48 communities in Ohio and six new communities in Illinois.
And POLR sales continued to decrease consistent with the realignment of our sales portfolio as part of our overall retail strategy.
I’ll mention here that FirstEnergy Solutions’ hedged position for the balance of 2012 is 95% while we are currently at 70% for 2013.
Commodity margin for the second quarter of 2012 also benefited from lower congestion network transmission line loss expense.
On the other side of the equation negative drivers of commodity margin were lower capacity revenues primarily as a result of the lower capacity price in the ATSI zone that became effective in June 2012.
The RTO price in June 2012 was $16 per megawatt day compared to $110 per megawatt day in June 2011.
Reduced Renewable Energy Credit or REC sales were $0.02 per share and capacity increase expense increased as a result of FES serving more retail load.
Although there are myriad of the factors affecting the net reduction in commodity margin FES continues to benefit from its strategy of moving megawatt hours sales between channels.
A retail volume increase of 16% helped to partially offset lower prices of approximately $4 per megawatt hour.
In the $4 per megawatt hour decrease in overall retail rates when adjusted for transmission cost changes for Ohio customers and changes in capacity prices is actually a $1 decrease.
When you compare this to the dramatic decline of $10 in the wholesale market prices year-over-year it points to the solid success of our retail program.
While we were challenged by market conditions during the quarter we strongly believe in our strategy and our business model and we will continue to take actions we deem necessary to ensure we are well positioned for the eventual economic recovery.
As Tony mentioned we are reaffirming our 2012 non-GAAP earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.60 per share.
Look to next year we remain confident that the regulated side of the house which includes our utility and transmission operations will continue to provide a strong foundation and fully support the dividend.
We see no change in their strategic role nor in their ability to deliver.
On the competitive side of our business we’ve seen a significant number of changes some negative some positive and some yet unknown that were not anticipated in our earlier forecast.
Some of these changes relate to the regulatory side that will have an impact on the competitive side.
Just to name three examples that were not included in our prior forecast.
The new ESP 3 in Ohio the October and January Ohio auctions and the AEP ESP and of course the economy which remains more depressed than we anticipated as well as continued regulatory and political uncertainty will impact our estimates.
A simple example was CSAPR.
We expected to be in a position to excel CSAPR allowances given our fleet’s compliance position yet we still don’t have any answer from the courts as to when or whether CSAPR will become effective.
Once we have better clarity around the issues that require updating as well as incorporating changes from our normal fall budgeting process we will update next year’s earnings forecast.
Thank you very much for listening and now I’d like to open up to calls and your questions.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hi Dan.
Hello Dan.
Hey just on the 2013 number Mark I take it as you guys are withdrawing the 2013 guidance number or is this the number you’re keeping but there is you have certainly a number of issues at play that could affect it that we will have to kind of wait and see how they play out for the rest of the year? That’s a good question Dan.
I think the answer to next year’s forecast is both simple and straightforward.
There’ve been a number of substantial changes that will affect next year’s forecast.
As I said some are going to be positive some are negative and some we just don’t know yet.
What I do know is that I’m working with a pretty long list of changes I mentioned the Ohio – approving the Ohio ESP extending October-January auctions storm costs the New Jersey case coal transportation power prices transmission whether we can accelerate of course the big gorilla in the room being the general economy but let me just address two to give a little bit better flavor.
Our earlier forecast assumed a one-year auction in October and January while we believe the changes Tony mentioned the three years will help the consumer it will also help FES.
Another example was the AEP ESP and as Tony again said we think that’s very positive for the consumer depending on how the commission rules that could be very positive for FES.
And as you just said the point we’re making is that we need to update a long list of items which we plan to do along with our normal fall budgeting process.
I apologize if that’s a long answer but it’s a long list of changes that we have to get updated and that’s what we’re trying to do.
Okay I think I got it.
Thank you.
And then Tony I guess just can you share some thoughts kind of out of the RPM auction results and kind of where the pricing went with the big demand response consumption in ATSI.
How important do you think it is to get a more of a physical resource in that market in the future and your kind of your comfort around reliability in the region as we look forward? Sure Dan I think demand response when it comes in across a broad region and is not clearly identified in a particular area has some benefit but it’s not the real type of benefit that you’re looking for in what otherwise are fairly constrained areas.
My sense is we’re going to have to get a better handle on that to determine whether or not it’s usable or it’s just an interesting thing to have but it will not improve reliability in and around the area.
My own sense is that many of the transmission projects including the conversion of the generating units in the – in and around Cleveland to synchronous condensers will put us in a position to deliver reliable electric service in that area.
It’s going to take some time to put all that in place and that’s why we have the RMR arrangements being contemplated but we intend to work as aggressively as we can to meet the schedule and to be able to stay within the guide post that we’ve kind of laid out for ourselves and that is basically to not be in a position to be running any of our power plants beyond March of 2015 that we’ve otherwise scheduled to shut down.
Okay.
And I guess just one last one.
As you look at kind of the mix and the retail business or kind of the gain in customer count relative to where your projections were at the Analyst Day it looks like there might be a little behind on some of the share gains and LCI MCI maybe relative to plan.
Where do you guys think you are in capturing the new customers over the course of the schedule and it was always kind of an assumption that you have an acceleration in the second half of more the government ag activities? Well I think we knew that once our retail group went the government aggregation it was just going to be a question of how fast you can get them transitioned over which as you said was mostly in the second half.
I think we’ve had great success in the large commercial medium-sized commercial I think we are a little behind in the mass market but I know they’ve got some good plans to catch back up there.
So Dan I get a weekly report in terms of what we win and what we lose and we’re up for the year across all the different segments particularly in southern Ohio.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Hi Julien.
So first kind of following up on Dan’s first question there.
If you could provide a sense of priorities or rather impacts if you will you listed out those few items which of those are most impactful and it seems as if a lot of those are actually positive items to 2013 EPS as you think about the update.
So if you were to kind of ballpark it is this actually a revision downwards or upwards? I apologize if that’s an obvious question.
I think it’s an obvious question but we don’t have an obvious answer.
We just have to get through a long list.
I think as we said earlier the retail group is 70% closed right now for 2013 so power prices are going to impact them.
I don’t know what’s going to happen with the economy the election taxes budget things like that.
Power prices are not a positive depends on whether the commission rules favorably this week that could be a positive.
One big positive potentially is we’ve reduced the amount of spend on MATS from $1 billion to – down $1 billion to $2 billion.
We’ve got transmission spend how much transmission spend can we accelerate into 2012 that’ll affect 2013.
So I don’t know if I would characterize any one weighing more than the other.
I think we’ve got to get our book closed for 2013.
We’ve got to see what power prices are doing how much more channel switching Donny’s group in retail can do.
So as I said there are some really strong positives.
Power prices are not going to necessarily be a positive and we’ve got to wait for some regulatory outcome and of course a big potential positive would be the auction since they are now into three years.
So good question I just have a long list of things that we have to get updated plus as I said before this is really the time of the year we are doing our normal budgeting process.
So we’ve got to get just the normal budgeting updates incorporated.
All right.
Thank you.
Maybe a follow-up again kind of to Dan’s original set of questions here on ATSI as we look forward and as we’ve seen your transmission spend announced in the quarter how are you guys thinking about not to jump the gun here but the 2016 2017 auction in the ATSI zone and any kind of commentary I imagine or at least I understand that the transmission is set to go into service prior to the next auction date? Well Julien some of it will some of it will be perhaps beyond that.
The real issue I see in terms of being able to get many of those transmission facilities in place will not necessarily be driven by the construction schedule but will be more affected by our ability to acquire rights of way abilities to get outside crews in to support it and doing that and getting the permits necessary to complete that amount of work in the timeframe that we’ve laid out in front of us.
So we have some work to do there’s a lot involved in the process we’re in the early stages now we’re preparing environmental impact statements and all of the other parts pieces and parts that will require regulatory approval primarily from siting organizations and as we move in that timeframe we’ll be better able to predict when we will have the particular parts of those projects in place.
Because this is not just one project there are a number of things that are going to be done.
Substations are going to be enhanced additional ones are going to be built new lines are going to be brought in to serve those.
The synchronous condensers will be put in place.
We’ll have to see how all of those impact the schedule that we have now as well as what the loads do in the Cleveland area between now and 2016 and 2017.
Great.
Thank you for the clarity.
Our next question comes from Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks a lot.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the Ohio ESP approval and the provision where they changed the POLR auctions to three years versus one and just whether you feel that is more attractive from a FirstEnergy Solutions standpoint? And if you’d be more interested in participating in those auctions? Let me address that one first.
The primary purpose of this is providing a more gradual glide path for our customers so that we could take out the volatility that we otherwise would have anticipated happening between today’s pricing which are based on very low capacity costs in the main and what we are seeing in the 2014 2015 2016 kind of timeframe.
We thought smoothing which is kind of consistent with what our utilities have tried to do for as long as I’ve been actively involved in trying to work through what otherwise are potential spikes in pricing try to blend that out.
From an FES strategy standpoint whatever that auction is – it is our strategy continues to be focused on direct sales to individual customers pulling away from POLR obligations and POLR sales because we believe that’s the greatest opportunity for this company to be successful over the long term.
We will likely participate in auctions and we do in multiple regions and will likely also participate in these auctions but again much of that will depend on where is the status of our retail book of direct sales and how much we have available or do we want to place in that kind of call auction associated with a POLR transaction.
Thanks Tony.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Hi Ashar.
Can I just ask when should we hear back on the new guidance? Is it end of the year? Next year? Or could you give us a timeframe? That’s a good question.
No not really.
I think we got to get through the whole process as it’s a long list got to get through our normal budget process.
I think our Investor Relations folks told us that there is an Analyst Meeting early in 2013 so it can’t be any later than that and if we get it done sooner we’ll get it done sooner.
So it’s just a lot of work we’ve got to get done between now and then.
Okay okay.
And then could you just again I’m sorry to apologize for getting it repeated could you just go over the factors again the changing factors? Could you just repeat them if you don’t mind? Well these are just some of the ones off the top of my head that I put down it’s the approval of the Ohio ESP.
Okay.
The auction that’s been extended from one year to three years in Ohio for both October and January.
Okay.
So that’s a positive right? Right.
The storm costs and the request to defer those that Tony mentioned in his text in West Virginia.
We’ve got the New Jersey rate case.
All the plant deactivations that’s going to affect our coal and transportation costs and those are all being negotiated by FES right now.
Our power prices are going to affect the open position where FES is 70% closed.
I think the last time we spoke was somewhere around 50% 55% something in that range.
So they’re right on their glide path and right where they need to be.
I spoke about transmission reliability investments the fact that we don’t have some of these big capital cost related to MATS related to the peakers the $500 million there.
How much our transmission group can get accelerated on the transmission side both into 2012 into 2013.
Then the big gorilla in the room is the economy where the economy is going what’s going to happen with the tax cliff are they going to extend it not extend it.
So those are just some of the things that I wrote down really quickly off the top of my head but I can assure you that the list is three to four times that length.
Okay.
And then can I just Mark just from our purposes I have not forget I don’t have the presentation in front of me.
What had you assumed for the economy for 2013 in terms of growth? I think in the distribution side Jim do you know that – probably like 1.5%? About 1% to 1.5%.
1% to 1.5% on the distribution side but it doesn’t necessarily affect what the retail group is doing.
They’re targeting a set number of megawatt hours at the highest possible margin.
So if the economy is going backwards or forwards doesn’t really matter to us because at the retail side they’re targeting a set number of megawatt hours which I think in 2013 is 112 as opposed to 104 in 2012.
So they target megawatt hours the distribution models and forecasts around the economy which is I said is somewhere between 1% and 1.5%.
But the economy impacts – the amount available to go after in the market.
So they are integrally tied as to whether or not this economy is going to get back in growing or whether or not we’re going to stay stagnant in 2007 levels.
When in fact at the end of the day we had assumed that this economy was going to get a little bit back on track it clearly has not yet and it is impacting the estimates.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thank you so much Our next question comes from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steven.
Hi Steven.
Wonder if you could talk a bit about the trends you’re seeing in competition levels on the retail side.
Mark you mentioned margins they were down just a fairly modest $1 megawatt hour whereas wholesale prices fell significantly more is this in line with your expectations are you seeing certain emerging trends with respect to the degree of competition? Actually I have Donny Schneider he’s the President of the Retail Group.
So I’m just going to let Donny speak for his group.
Stephen clearly the competition is out there.
I think we’re doing a great job.
One of the things that we monitor very closely is what we call our attrition rates and so these are customers that we’ve traditionally held and whether or not we’re able to retain those.
And in our residential space when you look across our EDCs we’re 3% to 4% year-to-date attrition in our FE Ohio that’s more like 1%.
So we’re doing very well at being able to retain those customers.
In other EDCs where we call them our close to home EDCs where we go after customers we’re doing quite well across the board in being able to secure market share that we’d anticipated.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And just as shifting gears over to PJM there have been a number of conversations about the minimum offer price rule and that there is continued discussions about potential modification for that.
I was just curious from your perspective how that process has been unfolding anything just out of the ordinary as you’ve been going though that is it proceeding as you would hope.
How do you see that shaping up in terms of potential changes to the MOPR? Stephen this is Donny again.
Yeah my folks are involved with that.
As you know PJM has a very elongated process when it comes to these things.
So they’re actively involved.
I think it’s a little soon to tell to speculate on how that might come out.
So we’re just going to have to watch it.
Obviously it’s something we’re very interested in and we’re paying close attention to that but a little soon in the process to speculate.
Understood.
Thanks Donny.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Hey Paul.
I’m sorry.
The AEP ESP it sounds like you guys thought that that might turn out positively for you.
Is that I mean just wondering what you’re thinking is in terms of what’s going to be coming out there? And whether or not this capacity ruling was – how that figures in your thinking and also I guess remarks by Duke that they might be looking at this – the face that they’re an FR entity and therefore they might be able to get a capacity cost.
They’re at least looking into that sort of issue.
Any thoughts there you want to just elaborate a little bit on?  this is Leila Vespoli.
I think the capacity order that came out was very favorable.
They did defer one issue to AEP’s ESP and that was how they were going to handle the deferral between the 188 and RPM.
So we’re still looking to see and I guess that would be tomorrow when the commission issues its order in the APKs and hopefully we’ll get that result positively and then and kind of have a complete picture with respect to that.
With respect to...
Duke.
Duke yeah.
I apologize I forgot the second part of the question.
With respect to Duke yes they have raised issues with respect to that.
If you think about how AEP presented their case they presented a cost-based case and that’s what the commission was looking at.
So in setting AEP’s state based FRR mechanism they looked at cost.
So if Duke is thinking of trying to implement something like that from our standpoint they have an ESP that’s in place that incorporated RPM pricing.
Duke per day DPL Go ahead keep going.
And so with respect to that I think that they would have a huge hurdle to clear with respect to that.
Okay.
And then with respect to peak demand just in the third quarter here we’ve seen a lot of hot weather in the Midwest and we haven’t seen – and in the East Coast and we haven’t really seen much in terms of high peaks at PJM and I was just wondering if you could maybe sort of give us an indication as to what you’re seeing on the demand response side are you seeing demand response in the energy market which has been sort of a tariff that PJM has put in here or any sort of comments you’d like to make on that? This is Donny.
I think Mark touched on the residential space being down a little bit what we’re seeing is that for a given number of residential customers if you assume an EDC where the residential customer count has not changed the actual consumption is down a little bit with what we’d normally expect to see with these hot conditions.
So it looks like the economy the energy efficiency et cetera is starting to have a bit of a dampening effect on residential consumption.
Okay.
And then just finally on Ashar asked about economic forecast and as opposed to sort of a sales growth I was just wondering sort of a GDP forecast what have you guys been assuming for 2013 just in terms of the economic rebound? 2.5% but that really could get changed depending on what happens with the tax cliff.
Paul I don’t know what that number is but I have seen numbers like 3% to 5% if they don’t extend it.
You subtract that from anything and it’s not pretty – so but we assumed about 2.5%.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
With regards to your CapEx around environmental it’s come down pretty considerably.
Where have you found that opportunity? I think pretty much across the board I think Tony challenged the folks to come up with creative solutions and they’ve done that.
I think coal firing with gas is going to help if the power prices stay low.
There is some things we can put off moving some of the outages around it’s pretty much across the board.
We’re pretty pleased with where they are but we keep pushing them to lower that number too.
So Tony you want to...
No I think it’s just a comprehensive look at each and every unit and each and every plant.
And looking more holistically at the plant and its capabilities and what you can do with existing equipment to enhance it and improve it for example the prove performance of precipitators or tightening up so that you don’t have as many air leaks a whole series of things unit by unit specific to eliminate kind of the large bigger ticket items that would otherwise be kind of hung on the back end of the plant because you’re not making the rest of the facility as efficient and as effective as it can be.
One of the items you mentioned Mark around the uncertainty over the 2013 power prices but you took your open position from 45% to 30% and as you close that 15% how is that pricing relative to what your view was when you did have guidance out there? It’s lower.
I don’t know Donny you want to speak to...
Yeah I think in the first quarter of this year first and second quarter we saw a dropoff of about $10 a megawatt hour in wholesale prices.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed with your question.
You all have talked about the offsetting impacts of rising contract sale volumes against the decline in capacity prices and energy prices.
There has also been a material mix shift in the composition of your contract sales from POLR to large C&amp;I.
And I was wondering if you could comment year-over-year whether the mix-shift has been positive or negative to your commodity margin or broadly neutral? Hi Hugh.
This is Donny.
I would say it’s been very positive.
And I’ll just use FE Ohio as my example.
If you think about when FE Ohio first opened up and I’m using FE Ohio as an example; I could use any one of the EDCs as they progress from the beginning to where they are sometime later.
FE Ohio opened up in the spring of 2009.
When it first opened up there was very little shopping and so as you went in there and procured tranches if you were a participant in POLR you were receiving a nice margin and a nice volume.
As time has went on though that volume has absolutely crept away from those POLR providers.
Today in FE Ohio you’re probably somewhere in the neighborhood of about 80% of the customers have now shopped.
So if you had only participated in that POLR procurement not only looking now at 2012 – not only would your rate have dropped off substantially but more importantly your volume would have been completely or not completely but 86% 80% erased from where you were just three short years ago.
So our move from POLR to the LCI MCI Gov Agg et cetera has allowed us to secure that volume.
Hugh this is Mark.
I would add one additional caveat to what Donny just said one of the things that we’re working very diligently on and have a lot of algorithms on is suppose you can move a customer megawatt hours between channels or inside a channel you’ve got an LCI customer that’s served by one EDC can you move those megawatt hours over to another EDC in the same channel but a higher margin or even within the EDC? And one of the big issues that comes up in the large industrial market is can we take those megawatt hours and move them to any of the other channels like mass market or something else? So they spend a lot of time trying to move either within channels or out of channels to increase the margin.
Right okay.
And if I could just ask a follow-up question regarding the radical reduction in your MATS CapEx is the coal firing with gas likely to be accompanied by a reduction in the variable cost of running the units that coal fire or given forward prices for coal and gas an increase in variable cost? And I guess if it’s the latter is it material? Yeah a lot of that is going – Hugh this is Tony.
A lot of that is going to depend on the price of natural gas obviously and the relative price nat and coal.
We’re looking at it more from an operational standpoint.
It’s not going to have some flexibility but you also have to include all the back-end costs where you are not going to dispose of as much material so and you are not going to need as much material going in to your scrubber systems because you are not having to deal with as much of the effluent.
If the coal kind of a relative balance my sense is it is going to be about neutral.
With respect to the overall cost it could be sometimes plus it could be sometimes a little negative.
Well hats off to your engineers that’s a pretty impressive savings.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Operator how about we take one more question? Okay.
Our last question will be from Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys how are you? Great Andy.
Just want to try to clarify something.
Obviously you guys know what you’re doing as far as 2013 and you’ve articulated very clearly that there are numerous moving parts.
At the same time obviously by kind of talking the way that you guys have it has caused some angst in your stock today.
And so I just want to give you kind of one more chance to kind of come out and just try to make a little bit clearer whether we should be concerned that there could be a significant revision down to 2013 estimate? I mean although it seems that a lot of the things are on the positive side obviously the big gorilla in the room as you’ve mentioned is the economy but I just kind of want to give you one more chance to try to articulate that as your stock is down almost 4% right now? Well I can’t articulate why our stock is up or down there are a lot of factors other than just whatever our forecast is going to be but at the end of the day we’re trying to say we have an awful lot of changes to make in our forecast and we’re just trying to be honest and upfront about it.
Some of those changes are going to be positive as we closed the book on the 20% 15% 20% that has to be closed.
Chances are it’s going to be at lower prices chances are we’re going to accelerate some transmission.
I couldn’t tell you specifically today what our forecast is going to be so I don’t know how anybody else is going to be.
It is what it is.
We’re just trying to be upfront and honest that there is going to be a tremendous number of changes in our forecast from the last time we did it.
It’s a simple and straightforward statement.
Right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Andy.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments at this time.
Certainly we like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today and as always we certainly appreciate your support and interest in FirstEnergy.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your line at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you miss.
You may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
During this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Clark Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Treasurer; Harvey Wagner Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
I'll now turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Meghan and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
With our 2000 earnings forecast being of great interest to many of you we thought it would be best to start today's call with the financial discussion then Tony will follow with closing comments on the company and the economy.
Before I move to the third quarter review I'd like to talk briefly about Hurricane Sandy the most devastating storm in our country's history and its impact on 2.3 million customers in the communities across our entire service territory no doubt including some of you who may be on the call.
Outages related to the hurricane were fully restored in Ohio and Pennsylvania earlier this week and we are working to complete restoration in our New Jersey West Virginia and Maryland service territories as quickly and safely as possible.
There may be isolated pockets of New Jersey customers located in inaccessible areas or who have individual flooding or down-line issues that will take longer.
Yesterday's nor'easter created an additional 120 000 new outages in the areas affected by Hurricane Sandy and we brought in 1 600 additional crews today to assist with restoration.
In addition to nearly 1 000 -- excuse me 11 000 of our own employees hurricane restoration has been assisted by almost 9 000 outside crews that were available to us as a result of our membership in 4 mutual assistance organizations: Mid-Atlantic Mutual Assistance The New York Mutual Assistance Group Southeastern Electric Exchange and Great Lakes Mutual Assistance.
Tony will talk more about the hurricane and its impact in a few minutes.
Let's get started with a review of the quarter.
Today we were pleased to report solid third quarter earnings results that are very much consistent with our expectations including continued growth in retail.
Excluding special items non-GAAP earnings for the third quarter of 2012 are $1.11 per share compared to $1.39 per share in the same period of last year.
On a GAAP basis third quarter 2012 earnings were $1.02 per share compared to $1.27 per share in the third quarter last year.
Year-to-date 2012 non-GAAP earnings are $2.53 per share and GAAP earnings are $2.20 per share.
We are narrowing our 2012 non-GAAP earnings guidance to $3.30 to $3.40 per share which is the lower end of our previous range.
Although we continue to successfully manage our costs and improve retail margins these efforts have not been able to offset the impacts from the weak economy which continues to languish much longer than expected or the weaker sales generally and mild weather this year.
As we discuss third quarter drivers it may be helpful for you to refer to the consolidated report to the financial community which was posted on our website this morning.
Special items are detailed on Page 5 of the report.
These 5 items have a net impact of decreasing third quarter 2012 GAAP earnings by $0.09 per share.
Special items for the third quarter of 2012 include a $0.02 per share decrease related to tax legislative changes a $0.03 per share decrease related to merger accounting for commodity contracts a $0.03 per share decrease from regulatory charges and a charge of $0.04 per share associated with plant deactivation costs.
These reductions were partially offset by a $0.03 per share gain from mark-to-market adjustments.
As a note we have normalized the revenues and expenses related to the older coal-fired units that we designated for deactivation as a result of environmental regulations.
The Reliability Must-Run units are not being normalized after September 1 2012.
These units are receiving RMR payments from PJM that effectively makes their operating earnings neutral.
Now let me move to the main drivers for the third quarter starting with the positives.
The first of these is lower operating costs which include lower expense associated with ongoing fossil operations; the transfer from expense to capital of utility project costs relating to the alignment of Allegheny's work management system with the FirstEnergy system; and lower energy delivery expenses primarily due to more devoted -- more work devoted to capital projects in the third quarter of 2012 compared to the same period last year as well as lower overall non-deferred storm costs across all service territories this year versus last.
Earnings also benefited from lower interest expense as a result of recent financing activities lower depreciation expense due to a reduction in depreciation rates for West Penn Power and lower general taxes primarily due to lower gross receipts.
With respect to the negative drivers for the third quarter they include a higher effective income tax rate lower distribution deliveries and reduced commodity margin.
Distribution deliveries decreased earnings by $0.04 per share compared to the third quarter of 2011 as overall deliveries decreased 1.7 million megawatt hours or 4%.
Commercial deliveries were down 3%.
And for the first time in several quarters we also saw a decrease in industrial deliveries.
While there was some growth in the chemical and refinery sectors industrial deliveries were down 5% overall compared to the third quarter of 2011 as a result of lower steel and automotive production.
Finally residential deliveries decreased by 4% in the quarter.
Some of the year-over-year decline in residential consumption can be attributable to weather.
Despite the hot summer in much of our service territory early in the quarter third quarter temperatures were actually about 4% milder on the whole than in 2011.
Let's move now to a review of commodity margin which is detailed on Pages 2 and 3 of the consolidated report.
In that report you'll also find additional information on megawatt hour volumes.
Overall commodity margin had a negative impact of $0.34 per share.
As you know this includes the absence of the $0.18 per share benefit realized in the third quarter of 2011 related to fuel contract restructuring.
It also includes a $0.22 per share impact from lower PJM RPM capacity revenues which is primarily a result of lower capacity prices that became effective this past June.
Excluding those 2 items third quarter commodity margin increased earnings by $0.06 per share compared to the third quarter of 2011 driven by a 10% increase in competitive contract sales volume.
These gains in contract sales once again partially offset energy prices.
While overall prices were down about -- down by about $3 per megawatt hour the net impact to our sales was only about $1 per megawatt hour after adjusting out the impact of lower capacity prices.
Looking more closely at third quarter competitive contract sales we achieved a 9% increase in direct sales driven by growth in Central and Southern Ohio; mass market sales more than doubled driven primarily by growth in Pennsylvania and in Ohio; a 47% increase in structured sales; a 15% increase in government aggregation sales.
In the past year we have signed on 43 new communities in Ohio and 81 new communities in Illinois.
This week's selection governmental aggregation was approved in about 200 Illinois communities and we will be actively participating in the process to make offer to those potential new customers.
And finally consistent with our retail strategy to realign our sales portfolio solar sales continue to decrease.
Commodity margin also benefited from lower congestion network and transmission line loss expense net financial sales and purchases and lower fuel expense primarily due to a 3.4 million megawatt hour decrease in generation output from our competitive fleet compared to the third quarter of 2011.
This reflects the change in our economic dispatch strategy a nuclear outage and the plant deactivations that occurred on September 1.
Purchased power increased by $0.40 per share due to decreased generation volume and the increased retail sales I just mentioned.
Finally wholesale sales volume had an $0.08 per share negative impact on the quarter results.
This also reflects the 21% decline in prices at the 80 Hub from $43 to $33 year-over-year.
As I’ve said before our retail strategy partially mitigates the impact of the prices established in the wholesale market.
We remain very pleased with the overall performance of FirstEnergy Solutions.
We've achieved a 42% increase in the number of retail customers compared to the same period in 2011 and we look to end 2012 with 101 million megawatt hours in competitive sales.
We believe our retail strategy has 2 primary competitive advantages: First we are building our retail book to look like a utility in a regulated market using a generating portfolio that was originally built for that kind of load.
The difference today is that we can optimize our channel mix because we are not constrained by the old geographic barriers.
Second we now have more than 2.5 million retail customers which gives us a much larger customer base or denominator to spread back-office costs.
We believe that these 2 advantages results in pricing flexibility that sets us apart even in a depressed power market.
We believe this is why FirstEnergy Solutions has been so successful in the market.
Now moving away from 2012 to a more detailed discussion of our 2013 non-GAAP earnings guidance which is $2.85 to $3.15 per share.
A high-level overview of the 2013 non-GAAP earnings drivers sales forecast and generation forecast can be found on Page 22 of our consolidated report.
In 2013 our regulated utilities are projected to deliver solid earnings of $2.08 to $2.13 per share and our transmission segment is expected to earn between $0.47 and $0.52 per share.
The earnings from our regulated operations are in line with our prior guidance.
As we have said in the past these 2 segments combined provide a solid foundation with stable earnings cash and strong support for our dividend.
Corporate and other is expected to reduce 2000 earnings by $0.25 per share.
Our competitive operations are expected to provide between $0.55 and $0.75 per share in 2013.
Total sales volumes to direct retail customers or those in the LCI MCI governmental aggregation and mass market channels are expected to grow by 12% year-over-year while POLR and structured sales are expected to be down 6% compared to 2012 again consistent with our strategy to shift away from POLR.
Our competitive sales volume forecast for 2013 has been revised to 104 million megawatt hours and we anticipate an average rate per megawatt hour of $53.
At this point our 2013 sales are already 81% committed.
We are providing a range for competitive generation output next year of 78 million to 93 million megawatt hours.
We are giving a range because it provides the flexibility to respond to market conditions as we continue to leverage our fuel and dispatch strategies accordingly.
I'm sure you have questions on the drivers for 2013 some of which we can answer today.
But I also want to note that we will be posting materials for the EEI Financial Conference to our website this Sunday afternoon.
Those materials will include additional information in advance of the conference where we look forward to seeing many of you.
One final note before turning it over to Tony.
I wanted to also brief you on a project that we're very excited about.
We've entered into a nonbinding memorandum of understanding with American Municipal Power or AMP to develop 873 megawatts of peaking capacity at our Eastlake plant located in the ATSI footprint and just east of Cleveland Ohio.
This project is subject to among other things regulatory approval.
Under the MOU we would supervise construction of the units.
AMP would provide 100% of the construction financing and own 75%.
Upon completion FirstEnergy will purchase the remaining 25%.
Importantly FirstEnergy Generation will manage the project and operate the units.
At this juncture we anticipate the facility would be operational in early 2016 and would be bid into the 2016-2017 PJM-RPM auction scheduled for next May.
This proposed project is expected to reduce our need for some of the previously announced transmission projects and extend the timeframe for others.
As a result our earlier estimates for transmission spending of between $700 million to $900 million for 2016 have been reduced by about $200 million bringing the estimated transmission spend to $500 million to $700 million.
Approximately $150 million of that will be incurred in 2013.
We are very pleased with this project and its potential benefit to FirstEnergy.
As we move forward we will continue to assess our operations and look for additional opportunities to reduce our costs.
Most importantly we remain well positioned to take advantage of opportunities created by expanded competitive markets and improved economic conditions.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tony.
Thanks Mark and good afternoon everyone.
I'll begin today with a brief update on some recent events and then I'll provide my perspective on the economy and the actions we are taking to strengthen the company as we continue to address the challenges of low market prices and weak demand for electricity.
First we know many of you experienced firsthand the devastating impact of Hurricane Sandy.
The wind flooding and snow associated with the storm ultimately resulted in power outages for about 1/3 of the utility customers we serve across our entire service area.
The storm which was far more destructive than Hurricane Irene and last year's unusual October snowstorm has required replacement of more than 7 000 poles 24 000 crossarms 3 000 transformers and nearly 600 miles of wire and cable.
Storm costs are expected to be in excess of $500 million and approximately 95% of that is expected to be capitalized or deferred for future recovery.
Final storm costs will be determined during the fourth quarter.
We called upon every available resource to restore service to our customers as quickly as possible.
Our own employees from across our 10 operating companies were joined by thousands of contractors and mutual assistant crews from other utilities all across the United States.
Together they worked under difficult conditions to clear debris and make repairs at thousands of locations throughout our service area.
I'd like to extend a special thanks to the elected officials police fire and emergency management personnel for their dedicated efforts in keeping public safety a priority and helping us meet the unprecedented challenges of this disastrous storm.
We understand that losing power is a significant hardship and we greatly appreciate our customers' patience and understanding as we continue to complete this massive restoration effort.
Let's move now to a review of regulatory activity.
In Ohio a 3-year auction for generation supply for our Ohio utility customers was conducted on October 23 and resulted in a price of $60.89 per megawatt hour.
FirstEnergy Solutions participated and won 5 of the 17 tranches available for bid.
The next auction is scheduled for January 2013.
Also in Ohio the Public Utilities Commission approved our application to securitize previously incurred costs that are currently being recovered from customers under deferred recovery riders.
As filed in the application those riders were estimated at $436 million as of December 31 2012.
This was the first test of the state's new securitization law.
We expect to file an application for rehearing on November 9 to obtain certain changes and clarifications to the PUCO order.
Once the rehearing process is successfully resolved we expect to use the proceeds from the transaction to reduce debt at our Ohio utility companies.
Finally in August the PUCO ruled on AEP's modified electric security plan.
And in mid-October the PUCO upheld many provisions of its July order in the AEP Ohio capacity case.
In addition Dayton Power &amp; Light filed an electric security plan in October.
We continue to believe that giving customers the right to shop will result in lower electric bills in an improved Ohio business climate.
FirstEnergy Solutions will continue to monitor and actively participate in these cases and remain a strong advocate for competitive markets.
Turning now to new regulatory activity.
Leila Vespoli and her team will be focused on 2 new proceedings over the next year or so.
In New Jersey we will file a rate case with the Board of Public Utilities by December 1.
The filing was delayed from the originally scheduled filing date of November 1 due to the devastating impact of Hurricane Sandy on New Jersey.
In West Virginia we plan to file with the Public Service Commission for approval to transfer ownership of the Harrison plant to our Mon Power Subsidiary.
West Virginia is our only fully regulated service territory and we deactivated about 600 megawatts of regulated generating capacity there earlier this year due to the new environmental regulations.
This transfer is part of a resource plan to address the capacity shortfall and ensure reliable power for Mon Power and Potomac Edison customers in West Virginia.
Under the terms of the proposed asset transfer Mon Power would acquire an additional 80% of the Harrison plant giving the utility sole ownership of the 1 984 megawatt facility.
In addition Mon Power would sell its 8% minority interest or 100 megawatts in the Pleasants Power Station to Allegheny Energy Supply.
We considered a number of alternatives to obtain the necessary energy and capacity in West Virginia including purchasing power from the market or building new generation.
We believe this proposed asset transfer is the most cost-effective option for our customers and our company over time.
And since the facility is equipped with modern emission controls and produces electricity with locally mined coal the plan should be very positive for the economy of West Virginia.
The proposed asset transfer will require approval from the West Virginia Public Service Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Moving now to an update on some of our marketing efforts.
Our retail strategy focuses on optimizing our channel mix.
And as you heard earlier we expect to grow our direct retail sales by 12% in 2013.
As a part of this effort in late August FirstEnergy Solutions launched a major new mass market campaign featuring a 7-year fixed price offer.
This innovative product targets residential and small commercial customers in the Southern Ohio markets as well as in our Ohio utility footprint.
We are extending the offer and also plan to introduce similar fixed price offers in other states consistent with our strategy of seeking higher-margin channels while continuing to offer innovative products to customers.
This program along with others will help shape our retail portfolio consistent with our overall strategy.
We remain focused on building our retail business and strengthening our brand among customers in targeted markets.
We believe this retail strategy as well as the actions we're taking across the rest of our business will position FirstEnergy to take advantage of improving economic conditions over time.
Now with respect to the economy we certainly anticipated that it would be more robust when we developed our initial forecast for 2012 and 2013.
Instead we continue to see very slow even stagnant growth.
The impact on our company and in fact our industry is essentially flat electric distribution sales with no growth in the residential sector decreasing demand from many small and medium-sized commercial customers and very spotty growth in many sectors of the industrial customer class.
This weak sales environment is coupled with depressed power and natural gas prices over the past year or so which has put downward pressure on earnings from our competitive segment.
With a significant oversupply of generation and weak demand continuing to dominate in our region we expect these conditions to continue in the near term.
Longer term in 2015 and beyond coal plant deactivations as a result of MATS and other environmental regulations should improve the power supply and demand imbalance that we have today.
In response to these ongoing conditions we took a step back and reframed our projections and some of our short-term strategies.
We accelerated our normal budgeting process in order to share our 2013 outlook with you today.
And we completed a thorough assessment of how we operate our facilities taking the steps necessary to continue reducing costs and aggressively managing our expenses.
As a part of that process we completed an organizational study that resulted in the reduction of approximately 200 positions in our corporate support departments and at FirstEnergy Solutions.
In addition we anticipate the reduction of another 300 to 400 positions throughout 2013 due to normal attrition throughout our operations.
We also implemented changes to the 401(k) health care and other employee and retiree benefits.
We will continue to assess our operations our regulatory opportunities and financial initiatives to ensure that we continue to deliver value and remain positioned to take advantage of growth when the economy does eventually recover.
And as we pursue additional cost savings we remain focused on ensuring we have a strong balance sheet given our increased capital program over the next several years.
We have a strong management team and we are prepared to meet these challenges in order to deliver shareholder value.
As we look to the future we see several catalysts for longer-term growth.
First is the overall improvement in the general economic conditions over time should bring us back to at least modest levels of growth at the regulated utilities and we see the potential for exciting additional growth opportunities associated with the Marcellus and Utica Shale build-out within our service area.
Transmission investments within the FirstEnergy footprint will provide growth and stable returns.
The current supply-demand imbalance will likely tighten as additional generating facilities in the region are deactivated due to more stringent environmental regulations.
And improvements in the price of natural gas and power will benefit our fleet.
Finally I know there's been a lot of talk recently about dividends.
That's where I would like to close.
While it's always subject to board approval we expect to maintain a stable and solid dividend.
As the numbers earlier reflected our regulated operations provide a strong foundation of earnings cash and support for the dividend.
And I am committed to our efforts at maintaining a stable and secure dividend.
Thank you for your continued support of FirstEnergy.
And now I would like to open up the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Dan Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tony when you think about all the process you guys went through in the last couple of months to reevaluate 2013 and really much of that inquiry of yours have been on the FES side.
What is set out to you is kind of the biggest surprises both positive and negative to get to guidance where we are right now and if there's anything in there that you see as a bright spot or a negative spot amongst those bands what do you think they are right now? Well if you take a look at the entire company and the bright spot in my mind quite frankly is the resourcefulness of company management and executives to take on problems like we have in the challenges of this current economic condition and come to a positions that allows this company to move forward to position itself for the future to be able to take advantage of improving conditions going forward and to deliver in the near term fairly solid results given the circumstances in the market that we are currently facing.
Research Division</strong> Tony when you look at the O&amp;M savings and kind of the ability to bring down headcount of the decline in O&amp;M in the winds of inflation how much of that is going to be people-related? And if you think about looking to a recovery can you support a recovery at this new base or will there be some greater acceleration in costs as the recovery takes off? No I think I'm pretty comfortable Dan with the headcount and numbers that we have in place at this point.
We said it looks like about 200 positions have been eliminated.
We expect another 300 to 500 next year through kind of normal attrition through the organization.
We should be able to hold headcount steady.
As the business grows we'll evaluate the need for additional resources wherever those resources may be needed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one last one.
Just on kind of on the channels for customer positioning.
I know you gave the 2013 numbers and you don't want to get into a '14 guidance situation.
But if you were to look at trends where do you think you're going to see more growth amongst those customer classes looking at kind of some of the market developments we've had recently? This is Mark.
I think it’s just as easy for Donny to answer but we're really targeting the mass market and the middle commercial industrial market.
We think those are very fertile for us.
We like the stability offered to us by the large commercial industrial market.
We said we're going to target less POLR.
So you should see growth in both the MCI and mass market and Donny's group is being very aggressive in those markets and targeting them and coming out with new programs.
Our next question comes from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just thinking through your 2013 guidance and the projected output of the power plants of 78 to 93 terawatt hours.
And I'm just sort of thinking through in 2013 and beyond your sort of net long versus short position on power price changes and was wondering if you could give some guidance as to if the forward power price were to change how that would impact you in 2013? Stephen this is Donny.
Rather than think about it from a power plant output perspective I would draw your attention to our open book.
Right now I think Mark said we're about 81% closed leaving about 19% of our book open for '13.
So obviously as prices move that -- those sales would reflect increased prices.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
What I was trying to think through is the balance of the retail book that's about 81% hedged versus the power plant open position and trying to figure out sort of on a net basis whether you're sort of evenly matched or if a change in just change power prices would have a sort of net bottom line impact to EPS in 2013? I guess all else being equal any increase in the power price would have a positive impact on the bottom line.
If you're getting to would we run more of our own plants if in fact the power prices went up? Yes we probably would.
Right now we're keeping some of them down because we can buy it less expensive that we can produce it.
Donny's also renegotiating a number of the fuel contracts.
That'll have an impact next year depending on his success and he's had great success so far so higher power prices would in all likelihood mean more production from our side and -- but don't forget that that also impacts what we can do on the coal contract side.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then you had mentioned ATSI and some work you're doing there.
As you think about whether that zone may remain constrained or not does some of your recent activity there sort of change thinking or how do you generally think about whether that zone could be constrained? Well I don't think adding the generation there is really going to change the dynamics because PJM will make a decision based on the amount of new -- either new transmission or hard generating assets within that area to determine the extent of and where constraints may be and how they would attempt to address them.
I still like -- like we've talked in the past I still like the idea of having generation inside the City of Cleveland and I'm very pleased that we are able to work this arrangement out with AMP.
I think it's a solid plan and I look forward to proceeding with that and getting that deal put through all of the hurdles to make it -- to get started on it.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And lastly if I may just very briefly.
On pension assumptions for 2013 anything you would highlight in terms of assumptions that you've made in terms of any material changes in terms of things like discount rates or anything else we should be thinking about as we think about your pension expense? I don't think we've made any changes but we're no different than anybody else watching the treasuries for what that impact could have on the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Steve Fleishman of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
I guess first the -- is there -- have you assumed the West Virginia transaction gets done in the guidance for '13 and is that meaningful within the range of numbers you're giving? I think the answer to that would be yes and it's in the guidance but I don't know if I'd characterize it as meaningful.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then on the mass market offers that you've had could you maybe give us a little more color on what kind of take-up you've had for that offer? What kind of consumer reaction you've had? It's been very positive.
Now that's a little bit like the margin question.
We prefer not to deal with what individual margins are per channel and we prefer not to talk about the successes in the volumes we were having with respect to individual programs.
But we've been very very pleased with it; that's why we extended it past the October 31 date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then finally when you gave the guidance a couple of years ago in your channels there used to be a wholesale channel.
I'm assuming now that your generation is so much lower that you're really not going to be selling anything wholesale.
Is that the reason that's no longer showing up there? Steve it's -- a big piece of it is just when you look at forward prices in the wholesale space coupled with where we're at with generation.
It just doesn't make a lot of sense to forecast much wholesale sales.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first question on retail.
You've talked about expanding retail here.
Just kind of curious on a go-forward basis '13 and perhaps beyond matching up your load and you generation.
I mean is that an ambition here obviously gas prices being as volatile as they are or are they kind of being somewhat structurally separated here from a certain perspective? I don't think they're being structurally separated.
I think -- we want to have that retail book look more like a regulated utility and so that would be about 1/3 industrial 1/3 commercial and 1/3 residential.
That's why we're pushing a little bit harder on the mass market residential the medium commercial which is kind of the lower end of commercial.
We might pull a little bit out of the LCI downward into those channels and we'll be trying to do less on the POLR side.
So it ultimately should be pretty close to 1/3 1/3 1/3 and that's what we're targeting but that's what our generation was built for as well so...
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so maybe perhaps not to put words in your mouth when you think about like '14 and beyond is your thought process to keep your retail intact to 100 terawatt hours and over time see generation kind of leg back up into that level.
Is that kind of the thought process? Well I think we've said in the past that retail will lead generation.
As the retail side grows we may add generation.
We may go secure some other sources but retail will lead the generation portion.
In other words we want to have the sale before we commit on the other side.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Absolutely.
And speaking of the other side of the equation could you perhaps describe a little bit more of the economics of the new peaking plant that you described? I mean I suppose the primary question I would have is didn't this clear in the last auction the last ATSI capacity auction that is and are you benefiting from those kinds of economics or how are you getting paid for this? Well first we're not funding the construction of it so we were really looking at the market in '16 and '17 of which we plan on bidding into but it did not clear when we proposed it to PJM.
But my understanding from AMP is that they don't -- they're indifferent to that and they're going to build it no matter what.
They have their own requirements.
They self-serve and we're just happy to do this.
We're going to build it; we're going to operate it.
It helps the reliability issue.
It drives down some of our transmission expense.
And we're going to own 25% of it at the tail end.
So it's kind of a win-win for us and a win-win for them.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just a last quick question here.
In looking at the details on your '13 guidance RPM revenues seemed to have come down from what you guided at your last analyst day.
In terms of the year-on-year decline it looked like it's less.
You kind of described $200 million.
Now it's closer to that $160 million level from what I can tell? Yes Julien this is Donny.
We don't always clear 100% of our available capacity in those BRA auctions.
And so when you think about the numbers we give those are based on the BRA auctions.
Subsequent to that we will always participate in incremental auctions and on occasion we'll do a bilateral contract for capacity.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So implicitly what you're saying is you've locked in more capacity contracts in the interim right? Yes correct.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan of Visium.
I was just -- Mark I don't know if I am front-running the Sunday slides or I don't know if you can help me just trying to get a broader sense.
The previous guidance midpoint was around like if I'm right $3.30 or so and we are now at $3 so there's a decrement of about nearly like $0.30 -- $0.30 $0.35.
It's actually $0.25.
$0.25.
Right $3.10 to $3.40 was the prior guidance.
Now it's $2.85 to $3.15.
Now if I take the revenues numbers and if I'm throwing the wholesale piece out as Steve has mentioned but if I just take the revenue that you had previously from the channel sales and which you're giving right now the decrement is something like $0.80 or so.
If I just do the -- decrease the revenues I'm just doing it like that.
And you've mentioned O&amp;M you pick up $0.15; Mansfield leases you pick up $0.05 probably another $0.05 on this lower revenues and all that.
So I'm left with like trying to account for another $0.40 of improvements to offset that increase in channel revenues.
And I don't know if you can help me where those improvements are coming from because you mentioned the regulated business is similar to what it was before and there's been no change over there.
Can you just help me where those other $0.40 of improvements are coming from generally? Well I don't know if you're front-running or not but I can tell you that Tony alluded to the fact that we're taking 200 positions out in the corporate and the FES side.
Those are effective December 1.
So those will not be in next year.
We expect 300 to 400 to 500 people to attrit.
They will not be in next year's numbers either so -- and we changed some of the benefit programs some of the other things around.
Those are big numbers.
They're well in excess of $100 million just the things I had alluded to right there.
I'd have to go through the whole list of all the changes but it's pretty much across-the-board.
I think Tony said it really really well when he challenged all of us to go find money.
And even though Chuck might be a midpoint of $2.60 which was the midpoint we had him before there's a little bit of a mix in that.
Distribution is up a little bit transmission is down a little.
So even though his numbers might be the same as to a midpoint they're a little different.
And I would say that there's just a whole host of smallish-type things that added up to a big number.
When you take -- after you factor out the volume and the price delta that we already alluded to.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Earlier this morning PPL actually pointed auto as a bright spot in Kentucky.
Can you given a little more flavor about what's going on with steel and auto? Well I can't give a description of Kentucky but I know for example the Chevy Cruze which is produced in Youngstown had a record month last year in terms of sales of 34 000 vehicles.
So I think some of it is just a little bit of catch-up.
We were going for a while at double-digit year-over-year increases in industrial sales and then we kind of slowed up to the high single digits.
So some of it I think is just catching up.
But again the Cruze is still running 3 shifts but I don't believe they're running 3 shifts through the weekend.
Ford backed off a shift but they're still running 2 shifts instead of 3.
Steel input -- steel output is strong and that's really really tied anymore to what's going on in Marcellus and Utica.
So it could be just a plant-specific quirk or it could be an industry quirk but we're really pleased with the plants that we have in our territory because they're all running 2 or 3 shifts.
Research Division</strong> And if you look at the midpoint of guidance at $3 kind of what underlies that with respect to your expectations economically? Is that just status quo? We didn't do anything in terms of -- if you're asking did we get overly aggressive with the economy to bump the numbers up; no.
In fact I think we held them pretty consistently flat across-the-board.
Next question comes from Brian Chin of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> For Hurricane Sandy how much of that $0.5 billion cost comes from Jersey Central versus in Monongahela? I don't have the numbers right in front of me Brian but I would say the vast vast majority probably 80% or higher.
Research Division</strong> Comes from Jersey Central.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know that you guys have done historically a very good job in terms of recovering storm costs but when I look at sort of the magnitude of the cost estimates here relative to the amount of outages it seems like Hurricane Sandy is just a lot higher in order of magnitude of costs.
Can you just talk about what was it in particular that made Hurricane Sandy a lot more expensive than say Irene or the October storm? Tony flew over in a helicopter so I'll let him talk to that.
But I spoke to Chuck Jones the Head of Utilities this morning and he's been around for 35-some years and he's -- he just continues to say he's never seen anything like this before.
But Tony flew over it so I'll let him speak.
I think Brian the extent of the damage is extensive and broad affecting -- when you think about it it affected almost every customer we have in New Jersey in terms of we had over 1 million customers out.
We had to build back the system with not only some transmission but substation and sub-transmission substation damage that had to be corrected.
And the amount of trees in and across multiple power lines.
It's just the way the storm hit the way it came through New Jersey hit our service territory and several other companies because they're struggling with many of the same issues that we are very hard.
And you can tell that with the restoration effort the way it is I mean we're probably restoring at this rate faster than any other restoration any place in the country with this amount of extensive damage.
But it's still a very slow go hooking up customers with the amount of damage that's been sustained.
I mean it's significant; it's broader than what we've seen before and it's affecting many more circuits multiple -- in multiple places than what we've seen in the past.
Brian I'd just give you one quick example.
I mean if you have a substation that's flooded you have to wait until it drains out.
But in this case you might have a substation that's flooded with saltwater which means you not only have to wait for it to drain out but then you have to re-flush it out so you get the salt off all the circuits so it's like almost you're getting penalized twice.
Once to have to wait for it to drain out then you've got to deal with the salt that's all over.
So it's like this compounding effect.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then my last question on this so obviously the JCP&amp;L rate case has been delayed in terms of their filing until December.
When you make the December filing is Hurricane Sandy cost recovery going to be a part of that or is that going to be handled in a separate proceeding? Brian this is Leila yes I would expect that filing to take into account the effects of Hurricane Sandy.
We're still working through exactly how we would present that but we would anticipate including it in the filing.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Arnold of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Brian just asked one of my questions so I'm not going to ask that again.
But on this issue of the capacity delta in 2013 the $160 million versus the $210 million before you said it was due to having not placed all your capacity in the initial BRA auctions.
Was there any element of that line that relates to having entered into some more term contracts where that's kind of part of the retail margin or would that show up at a different line? I guess that's my question.
Yes Jonathan this is Donny.
The -- if you're thinking about when we doing retail sale take our 7-year product as an example obviously that spans well into the '15 '16 BRA and beyond for that matter.
And so there is a component of capacity revenue as you levelize that charge that you pull forward but that would actually show up in our retail sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what you're showing in that line is just the pure wholesale capacity PJM auction-type piece? Yes that's correct.
The last question is from Hugh Wynne of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So New Jersey in the last 14 months or so has had 3 major storms that have caused extensive damage and extended outages for large numbers of customers.
Now this last one cost your company something like $400 million in storm restoration cost.
Is the industry thinking ahead to a need to harden distribution systems in a significant way to prevent the recurrence of these costs or is that something that's certainly not kind of become an issue for discussion yet? I don't think generally that that's been proposed.
I mean a lot of talk has been out about we should underground everything.
The costs of doing that are pretty extensive and have significant impacts on individual customers and their neighborhoods as you begin to bore through the underground facilities.
No one likes these types of storms obviously and to the extent that there are things that we can do over time to make the system a little more resilient we'll be undertaking them.
Obviously after 3 storms I'd be surprised if there's a tree left standing but there certainly are more there that I expect that we had problems with last night as a result of the nor'easter coming through.
So it is a combination of whatever system you have in our space.
Essentially 95-or-more percent of what we do is exposed on a day-to-day basis to the elements.
Whether they are wind whether it's flooding whether it's surges off the coast hurricanes snowstorms all of them have impacts that need to be taken into account.
To the extent that there are other things that we can do over time we're certainly going to look at them.
But when a major storm like this comes through whether it's in New Jersey or anyplace else it has significant consequences.
We look forward to meeting with many of you at the EEI Financial Conference which gets underway in just a few days.
In terms of logistics we plan to post additional materials on our -- of our 2013 guidance along with EEI materials to our website sometime midafternoon on Sunday.
Tony and I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today and as always we appreciate your support and interest in FirstEnergy.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time; and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you Ms.
Beringer.
You may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
During this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Harvey Wagner Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
I'll now turn the call over to Tony.
Thanks Meghan and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today I'll provide a general overview of last year's results and accomplishments before moving to some of our key areas of focus for 2013.
Leila will join us for a brief regulatory overview.
And finally Jim will join the call for the first time in his new capacity as CFO.
Jim will take a look back at the fourth quarter and full year 2012 and provide a preview of our 2013 financial objectives.
I'm sure most of you already know Jim from his tenure as Treasurer so expect this transition to be quite smooth.
And of course Mark Clark remains involved in key company projects in his new role as Executive Vice President of Finance and Strategy.
I would also like to take a moment here to thank Harvey Wagner for his exceptional guidance and oversight as our Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
And I wish him best in his upcoming retirement.
Okay.
Let's get started.
Today we announced full year non-GAAP earnings of $3.34 per share in line with our guidance.
Despite the absence of a meaningful rebound in the regional economy and energy markets we accomplished much in 2012 and I'll start by walking through some of the highlights.
First we maintained our dividend which is supported by the solid and stable returns from our regulated distribution and transmission business segments and we maintained our credit ratings through very challenging economic conditions.
Our competitive strategy at FirstEnergy Solutions continues to produce significant growth.
FES now serves 2.6 million retail customers which is an increase of 42% compared to the end of 2011.
And FES grew direct retail sales by 18% during the year.
Our nuclear fleet achieved strong safety and operational performance.
This includes the industry's lowest worker dose exposure at our Beaver Valley units and our best-ever fleet forced loss rates.
Forced loss rates were industry top decile at Beaver Valley Unit 1 and top quartile at Beaver Valley Unit 2 and Davis-Besse.
At our fossil fleet we deactivated units at 7 of our older coal-fired plants in response to MATS and other environmental regulations that made these plants even less likely to be dispatched.
We also plan to deactivate several additional units in early 2015 at the conclusion of Reliability Must Run arrangements.
At our remaining fossil units we have taken an aggressive look at the capital investment required to comply with these environmental standards.
After a rigorous analysis of the necessary environmental controls we have reduced our projected spend to $200 -- to $975 million down from an original estimate of $2 billion to $3 billion.
We also took proactive measures to implement more efficient fuel and dispatch strategies trim maintenance costs enhance operational flexibility and reorganize certain areas of business to ensure more appropriate staffing levels and reduced costs in light of the economy.
On the regulatory front the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio approved our electric security plan.
This new ESP which takes us through May 31 2016 is essentially an extension of our existing plan.
Our ESP has been widely considered a success in terms of its ability to produce competitively priced electricity for customers who remain with the utility for generation service as well as creating a level playing field among suppliers competing to serve customers who choose to shop.
On the financial side we made a $600 million contribution to the pension plan in early 2012 and pursued an early buyout of the Bruce Mansfield sale leasebacks taking future obligations off the table.
And finally today marks the 2 years since we closed our merger with Allegheny.
We remain very pleased with this combination.
It has produced cost savings and increased our operating flexibility while also expanding our pool of leadership talent.
I'm very proud of these achievements.
Our focus on our 3 core business segments generation distribution and transmission offers greater flexibility and more growth opportunities and financial stability than any one business could provide on a stand-alone basis.
And our strategy remains unchanged.
We are prepared to meet the economic and regulatory challenges of 2013 while positioning our company for long-term growth.
Our plan includes a focus on controlling costs continuing to improve our operational performance and exploring opportunities to grow our regulated and competitive businesses.
I'll discuss these opportunities in more detail starting with utilities where we are working to promote growth on several fronts.
For example we have joined an industry electrification effort that is offering electric power at truck stops as an alternative to running diesel engines overnight.
This is a particularly attractive alternatives in areas that are not meeting Clean Air Act quality standards.
We are also very active in economic development efforts related to the Utica and Marcellus Shale boom in and near our Pennsylvania West Virginia Ohio service territories.
This includes initiatives like building a new Black River Substation that is about to go on online in Lorain Ohio.
Our facility will support a major steel manufacturer that is expanding in response to the growth of the natural gas industry.
In our transmission business we expect our investments within the FirstEnergy footprint to continue providing growth and stable returns.
In 2012 we consolidated ATSI and TrAIL under a large stand-alone transmission subsidiary holding company and put in place $1 billion credit facility.
We also formulated a long-term plan for the ATSI region that includes a significant number of projects designed to support reliability in the Northern Ohio area primarily in response to the plant deactivations brought on by MATS and other environmental regulations.
On a related note we continue moving forward with American Municipal Power on the potential project announced in November to develop peaking capacity at our Eastlake plant near Cleveland.
This project which is subject to among other things regulatory approval could reduce our need for some of the previously announced transmission projects and extend the time frame for others.
Finally we're also building a new transmission control center in the Akron area that will include advanced technology to enhance service reliability across our entire footprint.
Turning now to FirstEnergy Solutions our focus remains on expanding our retail business and strengthening our brand among customers in both new and existing targeted markets.
Governmental aggregation is an area where we've had tremendous success and it will remain a priority in 2013.
Last year FirstEnergy Solutions signed contracts with 160 communities including more than 100 in Illinois.
Today FES serves this sales channel with more than 17-million-megawatt hours a 10% increase over 2011 and we continue to see potential for more growth in both Ohio -- in both in Southern Ohio and Illinois.
We project annual FES sales growth of about 3% to 5% over the next few years.
In 2013 we expect continued benefits from our strategy of first mover advantage and shifting megawatt hours between sales channels as we remain focused on both volume and margin.
As you've heard us say over the years we operate in many ways like a traditional utility but without the geographic restrictions.
By design our customer portfolio continues to look a lot like that of a Midwestern utility.
That's the type of load our plants were originally built to serve and we continue to leverage our generation assets selling the power that we produce to our end-use retail customers.
But our approach is much different from others in the electric retail market space.
We have fully implemented a multi-channel sales approach which means we go deep and wide in the territories we target.
We strongly believe that this approach is far less risky and more profitable than simply focusing on one segment of the market and it's allowing us to significantly grow our customer base in a cost-effective fashion while also taking advantage of opportunities to increase our profitability.
In addition our balanced portfolio provides greater stability over the long term and diversifies our risk and our integrated asset-backed strategy offers flexibility as we work to reduce costs and maximize margins.
Finally as our competitive sales continue to grow over time and markets begin to improve we plan to reinvest or revisit our fleet investment strategy that we call "mining our assets".
This approach focuses on improving efficiencies lowering forced loss rates and upgrading equipment at existing plants as markets justify instead of making investments in costly new generation.
In the past this successful strategy allowed us to add more than 600 megawatts of capacity with far less risk and at a fraction of the cost of building a new plant.
The "mining our asset" approach provides an incremental platform for our generation capabilities to support sales growth.
We will take a very competitive-minded approach to these investments spending capital on improvements only after sales have been committed to support them.
In doing so we expect the timing of these investments to be linked closely to the growth of our retail business.
These plans represent short- and long-term examples of how we are managing our business for the current market conditions while preparing for the eventual economic improvement.
As more generating units are deactivated due to environmental regulations and natural gas and power prices rise we would expect an improved supply-demand balance and at that point the groundwork we are laying today should help accelerate our growth.
We have a strong track record of delivering on our plans and that is how we are approaching 2013.
We expect this to be a year of executing on our strategies and implementing the plans we have described.
And we believe this approach will result in an even stronger company that is well positioned for the future.
Now I'll turn it over to Leila for a look at our regulatory priorities for 2013.
Leila? Thanks Tony.
We have a full plate of regulatory and legislative issues before us this year with significant activity in 4 states.
I'll go through the agenda state by state starting with Pennsylvania.
In December we filed a smart meter deployment plan with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission or PUC.
Hearings have been scheduled for May and I would anticipate final approval by September.
The plan calls for deployment over the period 2013 through 2019 with an estimated cost of the completion of about $1.25 billion.
Cost recovery is expected to occur through the existing smart meter technology surcharge.
We also filed a change to our default service supply plan in Pennsylvania which shifted procurement to 2 auctions per year from 4.
The second 2013 auction was completed on February 12.
FirstEnergy Solutions participated and won 24 out of 75 tranches.
In response to the PUC's guidance in its retail market investigation last year we adopted elements of the PUC's earlier recommendations in our default service plan for the period June 2013 through May 2015.
We will continue working with the PUC and other stakeholders to promote a fair and robust competitive market.
A retail market investigation has also been launched by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio.
While we do not anticipate significant changes to the Ohio market rule we share the commission's objective to expand retail competition throughout Ohio.
Currently 77% of our Ohio utility load has selected an alternative supplier and Ohio competitive markets have developed well despite being hindered by some lingering subsidies.
A 3-year auction for generation supply for our Ohio utility customers was conducted on January 22 resulting in a price of $59.17 per megawatt hour.
FirstEnergy Solutions participated and won 5 of the 17 tranches available for bid very much consistent with FES' business plan.
The next auction is scheduled for October 2013.
Also in Ohio we have an active case with respect to an audit of the alternative energy rider which recovers costs associated with procurement of renewable energy credit.
As you recall our Ohio utilities purchased these RECs at market prices in 2009 through 2010 to comply with the state's alternative energy law.
Now certain parties have suggested that we should have rejected available RECs and instead either paid a penalty or otherwise petitioned the commission for relief.
However Ohio law does not give the commission the authority to relieve us from our statutory requirement when RECs are available.
We will continue to participate in these proceedings which include a public hearing that commenced on February 19 with a decision expected late second or early third quarter.
As of July 31 2013 we will have collected all but $4.9 million of the costs at issue.
I'll take a moment here to discuss Hurricane Sandy which affected practically our entire service area.
The total costs associated with restoring service and rebuilding damaged part of our system in 5 states is approximately $860 million.
A state-by-state breakdown of the capital expense and cost deferral is available on the consolidated report to the financial community which was posted to our website this morning.
In New Jersey where the damage from Hurricane Sandy was the most devastating our costs were about $630 million.
As you know we filed a base rate case for JCP&amp;L in November as required by the New Jersey Board of Public Utility.
On February 22 we amended the case to include $603 million of the distribution costs relating to Hurricane Sandy including approximately $345 million for capital expenditures incurred while restoring service as well as $258 million in deferred expenses that we propose to recover over a 6-year period.
Despite the massive damage and spending on restoring power to JCP&amp;L customers after this historic storm the impact on our customer rates is still in the single digit.
And JCP&amp;L's rates remained the lowest among New Jersey utilities regulated by the BPU.
Let's look now at West Virginia.
The proposed transaction to transfer full ownership of the Harrison plant to our Mon Power subsidiary is important both for the state and the company.
We discussed last quarter this transfer is a part of a resource plan to address the capacity shortfall related to the deactivation of more than 600 megawatts of older regulated generating capacity due to environmental regulation.
It is expected to help ensure reliable power for our Mon Power and Potomac Edison customers in West Virginia for many years to come.
The Harrison facility is equipped with modern emission control and it produces electricity with coal mined in the state.
We believe that this transaction is very positive for the economy of West Virginia.
Under the proposed terms Mon Power would acquire the remaining 80% of the Harrison plant giving the utility sole ownership of the 1 984-megawatt facility.
In addition Mon Power would sell its 8% minority interest or about 100 megawatts in the Pleasants Power Station to Allegheny Energy Supply.
The proposed asset transfer requires approval of the West Virginia Public Service Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
We are well along on the discovery process and the West Virginia Coal Association and the IBEW have gone on record with the PUC in support of the transaction.
Earlier this month we received  the procedural schedule to set hearings in the case from May 29 through May 31.
Finally we have announced that the temporary surcharge that will be used to recover transaction-related expenses once the transfer is approved will have a price tag of less than $1 per month for typical residential customers compared to the prices they were paying in 2012.
Mon Power and Potomac Edison have also agreed to fund the base rate case no later than 6 months after the transaction closes to help define the end of that surcharge.
We would expect that rate case proceeding to take about 12 months to complete.
Thank you for your time.
Now I will hand the call over to Jim for a review of the fourth quarter results and our 2013 financial objectives.
Thank you Leila.
I'm pleased to be here today.
I have enjoyed getting to know many of you over the past several years and I look forward to meeting many of you on my new role.
Today I will review the fourth quarter and full year 2012 results then close with a discussion of our 2013 financial plan.
Before I move on to our 2012 results I want to reaffirm our non-GAAP earnings guidance for 2013 of $2.85 to $3.15 per share.
Let's turn now to the consolidated report as I walk through our results.
Looking at the fourth quarter of 2012 non-GAAP earnings were $0.80 per share while GAAP results were a loss of $0.35 per share.
As I would discuss in a moment our fourth quarter and full year GAAP results were significantly impacted by pension accounting.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 non-GAAP earnings were $0.77 per share while GAAP earnings were $0.23 per share.
For the year our non-GAAP earnings are $3.34 per share.
And as Tony said that is in line with our 2012 guidance.
Full year 2012 GAAP earnings are $1.85 per share.
These results compare to 2011 non-GAAP earnings of $3.64 per share and GAAP earnings of $2.22 per share.
On Pages 4 and 20 of the consolidated report you can find the list of special items that make up the difference between the GAAP and non-GAAP results.
As I mentioned the largest of these special items is the mark-to-market adjustment for pension and OPEB accounting which was a negative $0.91 per share in the fourth quarter primarily related to a reduction in the discount rate.
As you may recall last year we adopted a change in accounting where we will annually recognize any adjustments from deviations in actuarial assumptions in year incurred versus amortizing them over a number of years.
In 2011 this adjustment was $0.74 per share but it was more than offset by a onetime gain from the sale of non-core assets.
Other special items for the fourth quarter 2012 include plant deactivation cost which decreased GAAP earnings by $0.12 per share; a decrease of $0.04 per share from impacts of the sale or impairment of non-core assets; other mark-to-market gains of $0.03 per share; a decrease of $0.03 per share related to merger accounting for commodity contracts and $0.02 per share in merger-related cost; a decrease of $0.02 per share related to tax legislative changes regulatory charges of $0.02 per share trust securities impairment of a $0.01 per share and a charge of $0.01 per share for restructuring costs.
Moving now to the drivers of our ongoing results.
Clearly Hurricane Sandy had a significant impact on our company during the quarter.
Approximately 10 000 employees from across the company were dedicated to storm restoration efforts from late October through mid-November redeploying them to capital work instead of O&amp;M.
Regulated distribution O&amp;M expense net of storm deferrals decreased in the quarter as a result of this mass redeployment of the workforce.
O&amp;M also benefited from lower expenses related to our fossil and nuclear plants as well as the coal units we deactivated in the third quarter.
These items in total increased earnings by $0.08 per share.
Let's turn now to distribution deliveries which increased earnings by $0.04 per share.
Overall deliveries increased 252 000 megawatt hours or about 1%.
Commercial deliveries were essentially flat while industrial deliveries were down 3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 largely due to reduced operations by many of our large steel automotive and refinery customers.
Residential deliveries increased by 5% quarter-over-quarter influenced by colder weather versus the same period in 2011.
With regard to economic recovery in our service territory we still have a ways to go.
Full year 2012 sales adjusted for weather show that residential volumes are now on par with the levels we experienced in 2007.
However commercial sales remain down 5% and industrial sales are still 8% below prerecession levels.
Further while industrial sales have improved versus their 2009 low point they have been basically stagnant for the past 3 years.
Moving back to the fourth quarter drivers.
2012 earnings also benefited by a total of $0.04 per share primarily as a result of investment income as we rebalanced our nuclear decommissioning trust portfolio and general taxes.
Commodity margin reduced earnings by $0.08 per share in the quarter.
Looking at commodity margin from a high level the execution of our retail strategy resulted in a sales gain of $0.11 per share but this was offset by $0.19 per share decrease in capacity revenues due to lower capacity prices.
It should be noted that capacity prices and PJM during the June 2012 through May 2013 and June 2013 through May 2014 planning years are at historic lows in the range of $16 to $28 per megawatt day primarily as a result of auctions in the 2009 and 2010 periods that were at the depths of our recession.
Further the June 2014 through May 2016 planning years as a result of auctions conducted in 2011 and 2012 prices are substantially higher in the $100-plus per megawatt day range.
On a more granular scale overall contract sales increased 10% or $0.07 per share.
And once again the volume gains in contract sales offset the impact of lower market prices.
Governmental aggregation sales increased 29% in the quarter driven primarily by new contracts in Illinois.
Mass market sales rose 72% with much of that growth in Pennsylvania.
And sales to large commercial and industrial customers increased 6% as new customers in Southern Ohio offset lower use by some of our large commercial customers in our Ohio and Pennsylvania utility service territory.
Finally POLR sales continue to decrease consistent with our retail strategy to realign our sales portfolio.
I'll mention here that FirstEnergy Solution's hedge position for the balance of 2013 is currently at 96%.
Commodity margin in the fourth quarter also benefited from lower capacity expense lower fuel expense related to increased nuclear output in the generation mix and gains from net financial sales and purchases.
These were offset by lower PJM capacity revenues as I mentioned earlier a decrease in wholesale sales due to higher contract sales and lower generation output higher purchased power costs mainly related to having Sammis temporarily offline and serving more customers higher transmission expense and lower sales of renewable energy credits.
While 2012 commodity margin was negatively impacted by lower capacity revenues at a lower average rate of 56 per megawatt hour we are pleased with the progress that FirstEnergy Solutions is making.
We ended the year with 100 million megawatt hours in competitive sales a 10% increase compared to 2011.
And we grew our retail customer base by 42% through the continued success of our multi-channel strategy.
Respecting our 2012 financial plan we funded the Bruce Mansfield sale leaseback repurchase and took out additional nuclear sale leasebacks.
We also contributed $600 million to the pension fund putting the pension plan in the position to be fully funded once the discount rate returns to more historic levels for example like those adopted by Congress for determining funding obligations.
And while we remain generally on track to achieve our overall goals the cash requirements from the ratio and Hurricane Sandy put some additional pressure on our balance sheet.
Looking now at 2013.
Our financial plan is structured to improve the balance sheet enhance liquidity and maintain investment-grade credit metrics.
The plan initially focuses on reducing debt at our competitive companies primarily FES and Allegheny Supply by at least $1.5 billion.
The proceeds of the Harrison-Pleasants transaction in West Virginia combined with asset sales are expected to be sufficient to fund the debt reduction.
The assets we intend to sell are primarily our competitive hydro fleet which includes nearly 1 180 megawatts that were initially in our plans to be sold in 2015.
We're expecting to retire a combination of both tax-exempts bonds and taxable debt to achieve these debt reductions.
While we have not looked to target taxable debt in recent years it is now on our list of potential actions as we weigh the redemption costs against the benefits of future interest savings from the current low-interest environment.
On the liquidity front we are also working to refinance short-term borrowings with long-term debt as appropriate at our utilities and possibly at the corporate level.
This refinancing activity would term out some of our revolver borrowings and again take advantage of today's historically low interest rates to position ourselves for the future.
We're also working with our banks to extend the maturity of existing credit facilities totaling $5.5 billion for an additional year to 2018.
We believe this is a comprehensive plan that moves us where we would like to be in terms of our credit metrics and once completed would significantly improve the balance sheet especially at our competitive operations.
As Tony outlined we are focused on growth across each of our businesses including investments in new transmission projects and growing our competitive business.
As we address these opportunities we believe a modest amount of equity late this year of up to $300 million subject to market and other conditions will help to further strengthen our balance sheet and investment-grade metrics and support our growth initiatives.
We will explore auctions which may include implementing a dribble program this -- late this year to effectively address these ongoing requirements.
Importantly this level of equity will not take us off course from the guidance we've reaffirmed for 2013.
Finally while it is always subject to board approval I will reiterate that we expect to maintain our dividend.
Our regulated operations distribution and transmission provide a strong foundation of earnings and cash which support the dividend and our competitive businesses further support the payout.
As we move forward we will continue to assess our operations and look for additional opportunities to reduce our cost.
Most importantly we remain well positioned to take advantage of opportunities created by expanded competitive markets and improved economic conditions.
Now I'll ask the operator to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Dan Eggers from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Jim just kind of following on maybe on where you left off on your comments just with the fund-raising options between the Harrison transfer of that nearly 1 200 megawatts of hydro sale and then $300 million of equity.
Even using pretty conservative assumptions it seems like you'll get well past the $1.5 billion debt paydown target you guys talked about.
How do we put that level of fundraising in context with -- kind of with the strategy of getting down to the $1.5 billion? What happens with the excess money? Well Dan as Tony alluded to we're in the midst of a growth program also.
We're investing in our transmission facilities.
In conjunction with the Harrison asset transfer we're going to have an equity infusion down into the Mon Power level.
We're also growing our competitive business.
And as we said we believe the finance plan we have laid out with the asset transfer as well as the asset sales will more than cover the $1.5 billion.
But with our focus on growth we thought it would be prudent to add a bit of equity to the mix.
Research Division</strong> And I guess if you look out to kind of '14 and beyond do you see the need to continue raising equity at that kind of rate to support the growth program? Or is this just a rebalancing option in your mind? At this point Dan I would consider a rebalancing but as we go out into the future and continue to look at our growth opportunities we'll always consider equity in the mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess if you have Donny on the phone Donny can you talk a little bit about kind of with 96% hedged for 2013 how the volume targets have matched off against what you guys provided at EEI? and if there's any customer segments that are doing better or worse than what you thought you're going to be doing? Yes sure Dan.
So our target hasn't changed.
I think at the EEI we said 104 terawatt hours.
I would tell that you I have a boss who continually challenges me to exceed that so we'll see how the year progresses.
The 94% is against that original target though.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing kind of customer cost mix consistent with original expectations or there's been some movement? No.
It's still pretty much in line with -- we've really done well on our mass market sales.
We've just recently launched our customer choice campaign and we would see that bringing in additional mass market customers along with continuing to push on gov ag.
Our next question is coming from Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on Dan's last question there with respect to asset sales et cetera how does the $300 million kind of jive against expectations there if you could kind of just be a little bit more explicit? I'll just give you my perspective on it.
I think  the transactions would otherwise have laid out for the asset sales in Harrison where we're more than adequate to carry out the game plan that we've laid out for debt reduction.
The $300 million we talk in terms of equity is going to help support some of the growth initiatives that we have going on throughout the company including the transmission expansion plans that we have several plans to increase the capacity at some of our nuclear plants to renew turbines and things of that nature that are beginning to position the company for longer-term growth as this economy improves.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And could you speak to the timing of asset sales? Just is it a this year event? Or is this kind of over the next couple of years or what have you? Well I think the key one that we're talking about at this point next -- there's always an opportunity for asset sales as you guys well know from our -- what we've done over the last several years.
But the key one being the hydro sale we would like to complete this year and that's our -- that's what we are targeting to accomplish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then perhaps going back broadly and tying retail back into this as I heard your comments you described growing retail broadly speaking.
How does that jive with asset sales here? I mean are we talking about potentially adding selective assets in markets where perhaps you might want to serve more from your generation i.e.
Eastern PJM or something? Well not at this point.
I think at this point what we're looking at is allowing sales to drive generation investment.
And I have confidence in Donny and his team to drive retail sales to the levels beyond where we're at today such that beginning to reinvest in our power plants to reduce forced loss rates make them more efficient so we can get more kilowatt hours out of the same machines will be where most of our investment is targeted.
In the near term much of that investment is being targeted towards the nuclear upgrades in the -- not only at Beaver Valley in 2012 but 2013 we have upgrades at both Perry and Beaver Valley 2 or Beaver Valley 1 for new turbines.
But we have with some major investments in the nuclear fleet with respect to steam generator replacements which will reduce our long-term O&amp;M costs and give us -- in addition give us shorter outages which will create more kilowatt hours from those -- from that fleet to be used and deployed in the retail strategy.
So there's a lot of activity going on and there's a lot of opportunities yet inside the fleet to expand and become more effective with the machines we have before we look outside.
Research Division</strong> And just a real quick clarification.
Given pension mark to market et cetera pension funding plans as it stands today there are no contributions projected for '13 or beyond.
That's correct Julien.
Probably the first time that we would make a contribution would be 2016 for the 2015 plan year and that's just based on current rates.
So we don't have any expectation on making a contribution over the next several years.
Our next question is coming from Stephen Byrd from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just get your general thoughts on low-growth outlook.
I know there's a lot of unusual weather activity and for the year total low was up 70 basis points from last year.
But as you mentioned in your sort of prepared remarks there was certainly a lot of movement within the investment classes.
Could you just talk a little bit further about the 3 customer classes and your general views on the outlook for low growth amongst those 3 classes? Stephen this is Jim.
We're looking at load growth of about 0.5% to 0.6% next year.
What we see the residential and commercial areas just growing ever so slightly and the industrial sector has been sluggish over the last 3 years.
It's remained fairly stagnant.
Now we're seeing some positive signs such as Ford.
They're opening up a new engine plant and we expect ultimately that we'll start seeing industrial and commercial activity coming from the Marcellus and the Utica Shale that we have in our area.
But I don't see that as active in 2013 as maybe it will be when we get out in '14 and beyond.
I think that's right Steve.
I'm being a little cautious in terms of how fast this economy will turn around.
I think this area is poised to grow and grow at rates that are potentially far greater than what we've seen in the past because of the economic development potential in -- for the Marcellus and Utica Shale.
We're all looking -- if you take a look across the area Pennsylvania West Virginia Ohio it basically sits on our -- sits under our service territory.
There's a lot of expectations right now in terms of a manufacturing renaissance taking advantage of the locational advantage they would have for energy.
And we'd hope to see this as a catalyst for a much more significant and much more sustained growth not only in the manufacturing and industrial segments but the fallout of that through the commercial and the residential markets.
So so much depends on what happens to the economy in general in terms of are we going to be growing or continuing to kind of stagnate and are we going to begin to use the resources we have as a country to really reposition the economic capability and potential particularly of this region to take advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Now that's very helpful.
And then just one follow-up on Jim on the equity side of things.
As you think about funding growth you had mentioned up to $300 million to fund some of your growth objectives.
Would you envision the dribble as being the primary method to achieve that? There is various methods there Stephen.
At this point the dribble method is one that we like.
Our next question is coming from Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the asset sales are you looking -- Tony I just want to make sure I heard this correctly -- exclusively at the hydro Assets? Or are there other things you potentially on the table? Or should we just sort of be focused on that? I think that's the primary one Jonathan.
I mean there's always assets moving around in this company because of -- just because of our location.
For example we have lots of resources and lots of land in -- that sits above Marcellus and Utica Shale.
So I mean I suspect there'll be some transactions like that.
They'll typically be one-offs.
I think the real game here is going to be played on the hydro assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you -- have you disclosed kind of what book value is on those assets or anything other than just the megawatts? I don't plan on telling anybody what the book value is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I may just sort of another front.
There's obviously a lot of talk around EPA planning to regulate have a move forward on regulating carbon.
Can you just talk about how that's factoring into your thought process around investment in the coal fleet? What are you thinking comes out of that process? And what sort of time frame do you get enough clarity to sort of be certain that what you're doing on your existing plants will sort of survive future regulation on the CO2 front? Anything you can tell us there? Well I guess Jonathan if I had all those answers I'd feel really good about it.
All I can tell you is I think we're preparing ourselves to deal with these issues as best we can.
If you take a look at our fleet and you compare for example going back in time to either 1990 or 2005 which are the kind of the dates that had been thrown around to measure we will have reduced our carbon footprint in our fleet significantly beyond what any expectations were at either the Kyoto Protocol of 1990 or the 2005 baselines that were used before.
So we've done a lot.
A lot of the plants as they get shut down reposition.
The investing in the nuclear fleet to produce more out of that side of the house has done -- has improved significantly the -- and reduced significantly the amount of CO2 that our fleet produces.
So on balance a lot of it depends on what the rules are and what the baseline is in terms of what the expectations are going forward.
We all know that there's no technology today that's commercially available to address this issue in a major coal-fired facility.
So there has to be a transition period.
There has to be recognized -- somehow we have to recognize the time frame associated with it.
And quite frankly I think our fleet's in pretty good position.
Our next question is coming from Neel Mitra from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Can you give us a rough sense of what your earned ROEs were in 2012 and just what opportunities or whether you'd be in the rate case arena besides in New Jersey in Mon Power for the asset swap in the coming years? This is Leila.
We do provide information regarding our ROEs in an ongoing basis with our state utility commission the majority of which is publicly available.
And what we're going to be doing we're going to be pulling together our latest filings and hope to make them available in our investor presentation materials at our conference next week.
But I think the long and the short of it is we believe that our utilities are earning a fair return as permitted by state law.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question on the generation side how willing are you to rely on the purchase power market to fund I guess the retail sales? I know now that you're running generation less you rely more on the purchase power market.
And how far are you willing to go on that just in terms of how risky that is? Well obviously when we think those issues through the risk is associated with the -- more with the creditworthiness of the person that you're buying from.
We will close positions against the sales that we make and then essentially reclose those positions using our own assets once we determine that the sale is sustainable and if we can increase the margin associated with that sale by essentially producing it ourselves.
Our final question is coming from the line of Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
There'd been -- you mentioned the manufacturing that it's on and there'd been a bunch of new power plants that have been announced in Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Some of them are merchant.
I'm just wondering any thoughts about what that presents in terms of an opportunity to you.
Or competitive threat? Or just what do you make of that? Well my own sense is that the market today has sufficient capacity in it so investments in new generation of significant amounts is -- it could be a problem for the investors.
Okay.
The hydro asset it doesn't sound like you guys are talking about the book value or anything.
Can you give us a sense of what the capacity factor is on those plants? Well we probably could.
I don't think we have it with us.
But you got to remember you can't look at capacity factor for some of these plants or pump storage because relatively meaningless because -- well they really run during the day and they're pumped up at night then run a river kinds of facilities the rest of them are -- I mean I don't -- I'm not sure capacity factor is particularly relevant.
Okay.
But I mean I guess you know where I'm coming from.
I'm trying to figure the margin if you can tell us that sort of a sense as to what might be going away as you sell those.
We're not particularly concerned about it on our fleet again because of the other options we have.
Okay.
Great.
And then in terms of the Harrison plant you guys mentioned the December letter that if you didn't have 100% of the plant you may not be able to offer it into the RPM auction at a price that would clear.
Given now what the procedural schedule is it looks like I mean the approval's going to happen after the auction.
How should we think about that? Paul this is Donny.
We'll bid the Harrison plant into the auction in May from FES' side of the equation.
But we should expect it to clear? Well we'll treat it like we would any other generator that we bid in Paul.
Yes.
The asset's going to bid and I guess by 2 entities.
One would be the utility.
They'll choose what to bid.
And the other will be FES on their other ownership and they'll choose what the bid.
Okay.
And then just finally on the POLR and the PUC in Pennsylvania.
It seems like they've changed the rules and I'm just wondering is that a lot more opportunity -- does that give you guys more opportunity on the retail side there? Are you talking about where they are going with these shorter-term bids Paul? Yes.
Sounds like they want to create more volatility almost like they want to sort of force people to shop or encourage them to shop I guess is a better way to put it.
Well clearly that Pennsylvania has an objective.
They would love to see 100% of the customers shop.
And I think that those auctions are designed to do that.
We've participated in those processes and we're very comfortable competing both in the POLR auctions as well as the retail front.
Okay.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
Tony Leila and I will be in New York next week for a conference and we look forward to seeing many of you there.
As always we appreciate your support and your interest in FirstEnergy.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you.
Bye now.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines and you have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you.
Ms.
Beringer you may begin.
Thank you Manny and good afternoon.
Welcome to FirstEnergy's first quarter earnings call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause the actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating on today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'd like to mention for anyone who has not already visited that we recently launched a new page on our Investor Relations website for fixed income investors.
It includes data on frequently used information including our long-term debt credit ratings liquidity and credit facilities and financing structure.
Look for the Fixed Income investors link on our Investor Relations homepage.
You can also find a link to this information on our Investor Relations app for the iPhone and iPad.
Now I will turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thanks Meghan and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today I'll provide a general overview of our first quarter results and accomplishments and a review of the progress we've made on our financial plan.
Leila will join us for a brief regulatory update and then Jim will provide more details on first quarter results.
Okay let's get started.
Today we announced first quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.76 per share.
These results are solidly in line with our expectations with a return to normal weather providing incremental benefits compared to the first quarter of 2012.
As we described during our last earnings call our focus in 2013 is on successfully executing our plans to control costs continue to improve operational performance and explore growth opportunities in our regulated and competitive businesses.
We expect this strategy to help us address the impact of market conditions and regulatory challenges while positioning our company for long-term growth when the economy and power prices recover.
Another very important objective for 2013 is implementing our financial plan which was structured to improve the balance sheet enhance liquidity and maintain investment-grade credit metrics.
As Jim described in February the plan focuses on reducing debt at our competitive companies primarily FES and Allegheny Energy Supply by about $1.5 billion.
We have made great progress on this front in a very short period of time by successfully executing numerous parts of the plan.
I'll take a minute to walk you through these developments.
In early March we issued $1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes at FirstEnergy Corp.
in an offering that was positively received.
We completed the transaction with a mix of 5- and 10-year notes at very attractive rates of 2.75% and 4.25% respectively.
We then funded tender offers at FE Solutions or FirstEnergy Solutions and Allegheny Supply -- and Allegheny Energy Supply as we repurchased $665 million of outstanding senior notes.
In April we completed the early redemption of $400 million of FES senior notes that were due in 2015.
We also reduced lease debt by about $100 million with the repurchase of certain remaining lessor interests in connection with the 1987 Bruce Mansfield sale-leaseback transaction and expect $90 million of additional lease debt to amortize naturally through the remainder of the year.
In addition in April we issued notice for $235 million of tax exempt bonds which will be repurchased in early June.
Combined these actions will result in a reduction of long-term debt by about $1.5 billion at our competitive businesses.
In addition our Met-Ed subsidiary issued $300 million in senior unsecured notes due in 2023 and used the proceeds to refinance $150 million of maturing debt and reduce short-term borrowings.
Our Ohio utilities filed a registration statement with the SEC to securitize certain deferred costs and this process continues to move forward.
And finally we started discussions with our bank groups to extend the maturity of our existing $5.5 billion credit facilities for another year through May of 2018.
We're also looking to exercise the accordion option which will increase the total size of the facilities to $6 billion.
We expect to complete this process in a few days.
By taking these actions to reduce -- or to refinance short-term borrowings with long-term debt at rates at that are at historic lows we have made solid progress on our financial plan we laid out for this year.
Further we continue to move forward with our plan to sell up to 1 240 megawatts of unregulated noncore hydro generation assets.
We have retained an independent advisor and commenced marketing activities with a goal of completing this process in the second half of the year.
We plan to use the proceeds to complete our debt reduction plans.
Our success with the actions we have already taken particularly the bond deal with FirstEnergy Corp.
means the Harrison transaction while still important to both West Virginia and FirstEnergy Solutions is no longer critical to the successful completion of our financial plan.
Leila will talk more about Harrison in a few minutes.
As we discussed previously we still expect to issue equity later in the year to further strengthen our balance sheet.
We will determine the exact level up to $300 million later in the year as we get more clarity on our other initiatives.
Moving now to an update of our businesses.
With respect to the construction of simple cycle peakers in Eastlake Ohio American Municipal Power has notified us that they do not intend to proceed with the project.
With this development the Eastlake peakers will not be bid into this month's PJM RPM auction for the 2016-2017 period.
Since we already have substantial transmission investments planned to support reliability in this part of the ATSI zone approximately $700 million through 2016 we do not expect AMP's decision to not proceed with the project to have any significant impact on the auction.
We will continue to work with PJM to address the need for any additional transmission projects which would create additional investment opportunities beyond the projects identified through 2016 or in future years to further bolster and support system reliability in that area.
Looking at our distribution deliveries.
As you may recall the first quarter of 2012 was abnormally warm.
Our distribution sales benefit -- benefited from a return to weather that was slightly colder than normal this year.
Jim will provide more details on this topic in a few minutes.
At FirstEnergy Solutions we continue to focus on expanding our retail business strengthening our brand among customers in both new and existing targeted markets and implementing our multichannel sales strategy.
We increased our retail customer base by about 800 000 customers or 42% since March of 2012.
More importantly while sales margins are compressing somewhat as a result of continued pricing pressure our strategy of channel shifting for example moving kilowatt hours from POLR to higher-value retail channels such as mass market and government aggregation continues to help offset the impact of lower market prices.
FirstEnergy Solutions sales book which targets 104 million megawatt hours in 2013 is essentially filled.
While we have had considerable success in building our customer base forward prices as you know have dropped about $10 per megawatt hour from early 2012 and have continued to lag in that same range.
As we continue to see downward pressure on power prices we are adjusting our forward hedging strategy so that sales for future years fall into the lower range of the glide path we have established allowing more opportunities to capture potential improvement in power prices.
Finally with respect to the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards Rule or MATS we were granted extensions for compliance through April 2016 in both Pennsylvania and West Virginia for our Hatfield Bruce Mansfield Fort Martin Harrison and Pleasants stations.
These extensions provide for an additional year as I said through April 16 for compliance at these units.
And as we continue to refine our capital expenditures related to MATS we are lowering our estimated costs to approximately $925 million from the $975 million previously reported.
We continue to believe that a focus on our core generation distribution and transmission businesses provides greater flexibility growth opportunities and financial stability than any single standalone business.
And we continue to manage our businesses with a combination of long- and short-term strategies which is helping us weather current market conditions.
We believe that as the economy and power prices improve we are well positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities resulting from more robust conditions.
Now I'll turn this over to Leila for a regulatory update.
Thanks Tony.
In February I provided a review of the key regulatory and legislative issues that we will address in 2013.
And today I will update you on the status of several of those matters in Ohio New Jersey and West Virginia.
In Ohio the state senate has introduced legislation reevaluating the aggressive energy efficiency standards that were passed in Senate Bill 221 in 2008.
As you may know Ohio investor-owned utilities including FirstEnergy must achieve annual compliance targets ultimately resulting in a 22% reduction in electric consumption by 2025.
In light of rising program costs as well as the changing economic landscape since Senate Bill 221 was passed the Senate Public Utilities Committee is evaluating whether changes should be made to the existing law.
FirstEnergy is actively involved in this process and is advocating changes that we believe make more sense for our customers and help foster solid economic growth in Ohio including the development of shale gas.
Also in Ohio we continue to participate in a proceeding at the PUCO regarding the alternative energy rider that recovers our costs associated with procurement of renewable energy credits required under Ohio's renewable energy portfolio standard.
A decision is expected in the second or third quarter of 2013.
With regard to our pending rate case in New Jersey the Board of Public Utilities established a generic proceeding to review the prudence of certain storm costs.
By July 1 2013 JCP&amp;L is expected to file a detailed report of its storm costs for which it intends to seek recovery from ratepayers.
On April 4 2013 JCP&amp;L filed a motion with the BPU requesting that the commission reconsider its March 20 order and rule that the company's cost in response to major storm events will be reviewed and considered in the pending base rate case and not be considered in the generic proceeding.
In the alternative JCP&amp;L requested that the BPU issue an order clarifying the procedures and processes that the BPU will apply to coordinate the generic proceeding with the base rate case to enable recovery of the costs for the major storm event.
Such coordination would include holding the base rate case in abeyance pending conclusion of the generic proceeding.
We expect the commission to rule on our motion in May.
Hearings are currently scheduled in the base rate case from mid-September through mid-November.
Turning now to West Virginia.
On April 23 we received FERC authorization for the proposed Harrison/Pleasants transaction to transfer nearly 1 500 megawatts from our competitive operations to our Mon Power subsidiary.
We await approval from FERC of our filing related to financing for the transaction.
At the same time we continue to work through the state regulatory process.
On April 26 various parties filed their testimony.
Rebuttal testimony is due by May 17 and hearings are scheduled from May 29 through May 31.
We believe the proposed transaction is good for the state of West Virginia as it is expected to help ensure reliable power for our West Virginia utility customers for many years to come.
The proposed transaction is and remains very positive for the West Virginia economy and our customers of our utilities in West Virginia.
Thank you for your time.
Now I will hand the call over to Jim for a review of the first quarter results.
Thanks Leila.
Let's go ahead and get started with a review of the first quarter.
You may want to turn to the consolidated report as I walk through our results.
Looking at the first quarter of 2013 non-GAAP earnings were $0.76 per share while GAAP results were $0.47 per share.
In the first quarter of 2012 non-GAAP earnings were $0.82 per share while GAAP earnings were $0.73 per share.
As Tony mentioned our non-GAAP earnings were solidly in line with our expectations for the first quarter with some incremental benefit year-over-year due to colder weather.
On Page 4 of the consolidated report you can find a list of special items that make up the difference between the GAAP and the non-GAAP results.
The largest of these special items is $0.18 per share in debt redemption cost related to the debt reduction efforts at FES and Allegheny Energy Supply.
Other special items for the first quarter of 2013 include regulatory charges of $0.04 per share a decrease of $0.03 per share related to merger accounting for the commodity contracts plant deactivation cost of $0.01 per share a decrease of $0.01 per share from impacts of the sale or impairment of noncore assets a decrease of $0.01 per share related to mark-to-market adjustments and trust securities impairment of $0.01 per share.
Let's turn now to distribution delivery which increased earnings by $0.07 per share.
Overall deliveries increased 979 000 megawatt hours or about 3% primarily due to weather that was significantly cooler than the same period last year and slightly cooler than normal.
Residential deliveries increased by 6% quarter-over-quarter again primarily due to the impact of weather while commercial and industrial deliveries increased slightly compared to the first quarter of 2012.
To put the impact of weather in perspective heating degree days were 30% higher than in 2012 but only 2% above normal.
When we adjust deliveries for the impact of the extra day in 2012 due to leap year first quarter 2013 sales in the industrial class were up 1.5% quarter-over-quarter.
Sales increased in both the chemicals and refinery segments but were down overall in steel and automotive.
One of the bright spots we see is certain customers within the steel sector are starting to fill increased orders for pipe used in shale gas drilling with expectations for increased usage continuing through the year.
Adjusting for both leap year and the swing in weather first quarter 2013 sales were down 2% in residential and 1% in commercial.
Sales in these classes continue to remain weak.
We also took a look at residential sales over the longer period to see if there were any identifiable trends.
That analysis revealed that since 2007 our residential customer count and usage has been relatively flat.
Commercial and industrial sales are still down versus 2007 at 6% and 8% respectively.
Looking at other first quarter drivers earnings also benefited by a total of $0.05 per share from the combination of lower operations and maintenance expense a lower effective income tax rate and lower general taxes.
These gains were offset by higher depreciation expense of $0.02 per share and lower regulated transmission earnings of $0.02 per share consistent with our expectations due to a lower rate base at TrAIL the Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company and lower net system peak demand.
Finally I'd like to provide additional detail on commodity margin at our competitive business which reduced earnings by $0.14 per share compared to the first quarter of 2012.
While we continue to successfully execute our retail strategy gains from this initiative were offset by lower revenues related to historically low PJM capacity prices which reduced earnings by $0.19 per share.
These prices will remain in the range of $16 to $28 per megawatt day through May 2014 as a result of the auctions held during the recession years of 2009 and 2010.
As we have noted previously subsequent auctions in 2011 and 2012 resulted in prices that are substantially higher above $100 per megawatt day for the period of June 2014 through May 2016.
This drop in capacity prices should have resulted in a drop of about $6 per megawatt hour in our overall competitive rate.
However our actual decrease was just $3 per megawatt hour pointing to the benefits of our channel-shifting strategy and our average retail rate of $54 per megawatt hour is consistent with the expectations we laid out with our 2013 earnings guidance.
So we're right on target with where we said we would be.
Excluding the impact of the lower capacity revenues commodity margin for the quarter was up $0.05 per share year-over-year.
Overall contract sales revenue in our competitive operations increased 4% or $0.09 per share.
Looking at each of our channels the continued successful expansion into Illinois drove a 36% increase in governmental aggregation sales during the quarter.
Mass market sales driven by growth in Pennsylvania and Ohio increased 46% with the introduction of several new marketing campaigns.
Structured sales increased 92% due to increased municipal cooperative and bilateral sales.
Direct sales to large- and medium-sized commercial and industrial customers increased 7% primarily due to higher sales in central and southern Ohio.
And finally POLR sales continued to decrease consistent with our retail strategy to realign our sales portfolio.
The successful growth in our retail sales resulted in a 4% increase in total generation output and capacity factors of 73% at our supercritical and 54% at our subcritical units compared to 65% and 24% respectively at those units last year.
With this additional generation output came higher fuel consumption.
Although the fuel rate is also in line with our expectations.
Our retail sales growth also resulted in increased purchase power and transmission expenses and lower wholesale sales.
Commodity margin was also impacted by lower sales of renewable energy credits and lower capacity expenses compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Overall we are pleased with the quarter's results and also with the progress we're making in the implementation of our financial plan for the year.
We plan to continue to strengthen our balance sheet while also looking for additional opportunities to reduce our costs.
Most importantly we are positioning the company to take advantage of opportunities created by expanded competitive markets and improved economic conditions.
Now I'll open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Dan Eggers of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Hey just following up on Tony's comments and Leila's comments about Harrison.
Can you just maybe help us understand how important it is you think at this point in time to move that asset over from a balance-sheet perspective relative to a customer-benefit perspective? And then given kind of the wide -- or the low bid made in the intervenor testimony how important is it to take a lower price or accept a lower price to get this done relative to keeping it at FES if the pricing doesn't make sense? Yes well I'll start off with that Dan.
Well let me start off.
I think the low price of the $565 million or whatever is that's just a nonstarter.
So I'll leave that at that.
From a balance-sheet perspective we think we're in pretty good shape by getting the FirstEnergy Corp.
bond deal down where we upsized it to $1.5 billion.
And we also feel we're in a very good position with the hydro sales so we feel real comfortable about that.
And as you know we plan to infuse equity from FirstEnergy down into Mon Power associated with this asset transfer.
If the asset transfer doesn't go forward we would likely infuse that equity that we have planned for Mon Power down into FES.
So I think we'd end up at a good position for the balance sheet there at FES.
Yes Dan this is Tony.
As I'm looking at this I think this is far more important to West Virginia and Mon Power in terms of providing them with a stable and long-term resource that they can rely on than it is at this point from a balance sheet standpoint at FES or FirstEnergy.
Research Division</strong> But if it didn't transfer you'd feel comfortable keeping that extra capacity at FES? Absolutely.
It's a great asset.
So that's not a consideration.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on RPM outlook I know you guys have kind of signaled Donny I think of kind of flattish in prior comments.
With the clarity on the DR rules and the AMP project not going through is there any change in your thought process? Give me that again Dan because I was talking the same time you were.
Research Division</strong> Oh I'm sorry.
I was just going to ask Donny since last -- he said prior that RPM expectations were relatively flat or that's kind of where you thought it was going to come.
Just curious if you had any updated thoughts now that we have the DR rule clarification out of FERC and the decision on the AMP project not going forward.
I really haven't changed my opinion here Dan.
We'll see here in a couple of weeks obviously where the auction comes out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question on industrial load.
I mean you said that you're seeing signs that steel was looking better.
The first quarter had pretty good demand growth.
Are you reevaluating what you guys think normalized load growth is going to be at this point Tony or is this just a little early? Dan I think it's a little early.
It's still spotty.
We're seeing real strength right now in steel and in chemicals and there is absolutely a lot of upside if we can get this manufacturing and further development of the shale gas plays really into an economic development engine for this area.
But I think it still too early to say because some of the other things are not as strong.
Automotive's down a little bit but the fact of the matter is there's been a number of announced projects that as they go forward should provide some upside on the industrial sales side.
So right now I'm cautiously optimistic that we're going to start seeing the economy improve and begin to see some of the expected real growth that can occur in this area as a real energy center for America.
The next question is from Jonathan Arnold of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
So the use of proceeds if you are successful in Harrison and hydro because you've already hit your delevering targets at FES I think with this new deal in April should we just assume more of the same or something different? We would use those proceeds Jonathan to pay down some of the short-term borrowings that we have there right now associated with paying down the debt.
Research Division</strong> At FES? That's correct.
The next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on Dan's question a little bit here.
With regards to ATSI specifically what do you expect there in '16 '17 just to be explicit? I expect to get the results about May 24 I think is the date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And again kind of following up on a little granular detail here the energy efficiency component of the Ohio program recently approved.
As of today what is the total megawatts that you're seeing come out of that program that you'd expect to bid? Roughly right now we're expecting a delta from what we maybe would have put in versus what the commission order would require us to do I assume that's what you're getting at of roughly 160 megawatts.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And again broadly speaking if you could summarize not to put it too cutely here.
But a lot of other peers of yours have framed upside to power forwards in a dollar-per-megawatt-hour fashion.
I'd be curious if you guys would be willing to opine using a comparable metric out in '15 or '16 or what have you? I think it's always interesting.
I've heard what they've said in the main and I don't really have any reason to say otherwise.
I think there's going to be a lot more generation removed from both the energy and capacity markets as we go forward.
That will bring the demand -- the supply side more in balance over time.
I'm not sure that that's fully reflected yet in the forward prices that we're seeing out there.
And on the demand side we're certainly hopeful that by the time we move into these time frames there is more robust economic activity than we've seen here recently.
So a combination of demand and supply as it naturally would affect prices we would expect to see some upside.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just last one here.
How does that fit into your hedging strategy here? I mean you talked about being in the lower range of the glide path et cetera.
Again it just means that we're going to hold some sales back to take advantage of higher energy prices as they materialize in time because we truly believe that they are going to rise.
And therefore we're going to slow down the amount of otherwise contracting we would do into forward periods.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could talk a little about the process you're going through with PJM given the Eastlake peaker decision.
Is there anything we should be looking for in the near term in terms of the assessment of further transmission needed? If for example anything that might come out before the auction or any other discussion from PJM as to shortfalls in the ASTI zone or anything else we should be looking for I guess at PJM? I'd say at this point probably you shouldn't be looking for anything in the near term.
Remembering that the '15 '16 auction did not clear the peaking unit at -- in that area transmission requirements were put in place to address those concerns as well as RMR agreements or RM whatever -- RMR agreements which should cover that period.
I would expect by the time that we get to the '16 and '17 time frame and beyond is where people would begin looking at whether or not any additional transmission's required.
So I'm not expecting anything near term.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And just wanted to follow-up on Dan's question on the credit.
I just want to make sure that I understood the message there.
As I understand it the message is that you have -- you've done quite a bit of refinancing and work there.
You have hydro assets that you can sell and you may or may not issue up to $300 million of equity.
And as you look at that that puts you in a position to be able to maintain your credit position.
Is that fair? Yes I would say that was fair Stephen.
And one of the things I said to the earlier question of -- on the FES side specifically is if the Harrison asset transfer goes through then we will use those proceeds to continue our debt reduction there.
If that transaction would not go forward then the money that we had targeted to infuse from FirstEnergy holding company down to Mon Power we could use those proceeds to infuse down into FirstEnergy Solutions bolster their equity and give them those proceeds to pay down debt.
The next question is from Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> As we look at FE holdco now that you've raised enough debt that you can deleverage enough at FES what are the factors that we should look at to see whether you're going to kind of use the full $300 million? I guess what are the puts and takes that would decide whether you would decide to use that? And what would it be used for the full $300 million? Well I would say the primary thing that we'll be looking at Neel would be the hydro asset sale when we get that completed and how successful we are there.
But as we said we do plan to issue equity sometime towards the end of the year and it would be up to $300 million.
So I'd say the key benchmark to be looking at would be the hydro sale.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then now that I guess we've seen a run up in '13 gas how have your coal plants been running? Are the capacity factors higher now that we're seeing higher dark spreads than last year? Yes I think we said that the critical units were running around 74%.
We probably have that number right there.
Yes Page 12 of the consolidated report.
The base load units were at 73% capacity factor versus last year at 65%.
Our next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Just a few quick ones on the AMP Ohio deal.
As I recall there was some sort of transmission offset in terms of CapEx.
I'm just wondering the kind of CapEx savings that you might be seeing because of this? And if you could just give me a little bit more clarity as to why it doesn't impact the RPM? Is that because of other things like the energy efficiency ruling or something else? Well I think on the first part of your question Paul I think we originally said that the transmission spend was going to be several hundred million dollars higher absent building this plant.
But we'll have discussions with PJM and that additional spend is not likely to incur -- to occur until after 2016.
And it could be as late as 2019 or '20.
So I think that's the answer there.
As far as impacting the capacity auction as Tony said the '15 '16 auction did not include AMP and so the changes between '15 and '16 and '16 and '17 will be on what PJM's assessment is on demand growth what happens with DR and if there's any new generation.
So...
Okay.
I see what you're saying.
So you were talking about relative to last year the fact that -- Okay I got you.
It wasn't there before so is that what you mean? Okay I didn't...
Yes.
Sorry to be slow on that.
Okay.
So just the energy efficiency ruling what's the number of megawatts that's associated with that? Hi Paul.
This is Leila.
Roughly a delta of 160 megawatts.
Okay.
And then just on this transmission side the net system peak seemed to impact you guys and I was wondering sort of if you could elaborate a little on that.
It sounds like weather and sales are sort of higher in the territory and stuff.
I was just wondering what that net system peak demand reduction what that signified versus...
That isn't for the current year.
That's set on prior years' net peak demand.
And I think that was actually for the end of '10 beginning of '11 where that peak was maybe from July 1 2010 through June 30 or May 31 of '11.
So that peak demand has -- deals with prior periods.
It has nothing to do with this current year.
Our next question is from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Questions both on the regulated side of the house and on the nonregulated side.
I just wanted to double check the time line.
When do you expect new rates per the general rate case in New Jersey for JCP&amp;L? When do those go in effect? Michael I'll let Leila jump in on this.
But at this point we have various things in front of the commission.
It's the generic proceeding on the storm costs.
We also have filed for a base rate increase and we've asked the commission to consider the storm costs as part of our base rate proceeding.
But at this point we would not expect that rates would go into effect until probably the first or second quarter of 2014.
We have our -- currently we have hearings scheduled for the September through the November time frame.
So it's not likely we will hear anything until early next year.
And Michael this is Leila.
Just to add a little bit to that.
Should they want to go forward with the generic proceedings and allow the results to flow into the rate case it would offset the timing that Jim just laid out by a month or 2.
I would imagine it would be a manageably short period of time.
So that can get elongated a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one question on the balance sheet.
Just what kind of feedback have you gotten from the rating agencies regarding just total consolidated leverage metrics.
You've done a really good job of reducing debt at FES but so far pre the asset sales it seems that you've just simply added debt at the holding company to reduce debt at FES.
I'm just curious what kind of feedback the rating agencies have provided on consolidated debt metrics? Well they came out with a report I believe it was in the February timeframe where they gave a report on FirstEnergy consolidated.
We've shared our plan with them.
I think they're waiting to see the success of some of the financial initiatives that we've laid out as well as the outcome in the Jersey rate proceedings.
So I think they're waiting to see the end results of all of those.
But we've fed them all of the information and we're in active dialogue with them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last item.
If I look at Page 13 in the release where you show kind of all your contract sales and your wholesale sales.
One thing that stands out a little bit is just -- and I know your total megawatt hours sold has gone up year-over-year but so has your purchase power level especially your spot purchase power.
Meaning your total purchase power is up almost 2 terawatt hours year-over-year your spot purchase power is I don't know up 1.7 and change.
Just curious about kind of risk management and how far in advance you procure those spot megawatt hours.
I'm just trying to think about exposure kind of exposure to future volatility in spot power prices for -- to purchase power to supply your retail customers.
Michael this is Donny.
It depends on the time frame in which we need those purchases.
Obviously if it's a summertime load issue we'll either go out and buy -- we'll buy forwards or we'll buy call options to cover that.
And if it's associated with the shoulder months which is sometimes more likely believe it or not because we'll have units on scheduled outages we'll let some of that ride in the spot market not a large percentage of it but we'll let some of it ride.
We're very comfortable with being able to procure power to serve load.
For years prior to our merger with Allegheny we served all of the Penelec and Met-Ed load.
I think that in total was about 30 terawatt hours a year and we did all -- almost all of with purchased power.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But how does that flow through? Let's say this summer you're buying power in the spot market to serve your retail load and for some reason there's -- someone else has planned outages and there's a spike a $10 or $15 increase per megawatt hour.
How does that impact retail margins? And how does it impact -- I'm just trying to think about the exposure to volatility kind of week over week or month over month in power prices.
And I don't mean kind of the $1 or $2 dollar movements.
I mean like we saw in New England this past winter where you saw major movements in the short-term pricing.
Yes I think that the short answer is Michael we would not leave ourselves that exposed.
We're going to -- if we're into the summer months and it's on-peak power requirements we're going to cover that up with a combination of forwards and calls.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it's safe to assume by like a May June time frame you've probably locked up the summer requirements unless the demand is ridiculously hot in which case other parts of your business would benefit.
Absolutely.
Even earlier than May and June.
The next question is from Charles Fishman of MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> If you do have a lower glide path on your contract sales will that change your strategy as far as how quickly you reduce your POLR sales over the next few years? Charles I don't -- this is Donny by the way.
We generally use POLR sales almost as a plug if you will depending on how our other sales are going and obviously we also take a look at how competitive that POLR sale is.
So they could be related that if we've slowed down and we've become more selective around our retail sales and a good opportunity comes along in the POLR market we may step into that little stronger.
But it would really depend on what the competitors were doing in that particular auction at the time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess what I'm hearing is they're not as directly related as maybe I thought.
No.
No they're not directly related.
The next question is from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I had to jump off and on so I'm not sure if you went over it.
If you did I apologize.
But your latest thoughts on Signal Peak? Signal Peak it's producing very well.
I think we're into the third long wall move.
I think probably beginning next year we'll start on the surface mining.
So at this point it's performing very well.
We're getting low cost out of the mine production's increasing.
And I would say ultimately we would look to sell the asset.
We've said that that's not a business that we want to be in long term.
But it's not one of the assets that we're focused on right now.
Research Division</strong> What is long term? I would say probably within the next 5 years.
Our next question is from Greg Gordon of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just on the idea of hedging and you being sort of at the low end of your sort of hedge channel versus the high end.
I just went back and pulled up your last Analyst Day presentation where you present sort of a visual guide to how you think about hedging.
So is it fair to say looking at that that for 2014 then given where you are this time of year that you'd be about 55% to 60% sold forward at this point? Yes that's about right Greg.
Research Division</strong> So the rest of it's open and can either be sold wholesale or into POLR? That's correct.
And the final question comes from Raymond Leung of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little about one provide me a quick update on securitization I think the Ohio units have something.
Can you provide some time line on that? And then also you mentioned the potential equity injection related to the asset transfer for Harrison or otherwise injecting equity down to FES.
Can you sort of provide me some context of what the source of funds would be? And then the last thing also can you talk a little bit more about the bank line extension and the accordion feature? Can you just discuss that a little bit more? Is that just a $0.5 billion incremental if you use the accordion feature? Let me take that since I was last one Ray.
Yes our bank credit facilities we expect to close that in the very near term and we're going to extend that out by 1 year through May of 2018.
And yes the accordion feature will be for $500 million and that will at the corp.
level.
As far as the securitization we've filed our registration statement.
We've got comments back from the SEC.
We're in the process of responding to those comments.
And my expectation that in the very near future we'll be ready to take that to market.
Research Division</strong> And what the use of proceeds would be for securitization? Well that would be to buyback debt at Ohio Edison Cleveland and Toledo Edison.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question on source of funds for the equity injection.
Yes the source of funds as we had always said from the Mon Power asset transfer we would infuse equity into Mon Power from FE Corp.
So we went out we raised $1.5 billion so it would be funds that were sitting there at FE Corp.
And instead of pushing those down to Mon Power we could push them down to FES if we need be.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your support and your interest in FirstEnergy.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Brenda and good afternoon.
Welcome to FirstEnergy's second quarter earnings call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Reconciliations to GAAP for the non-GAAP earnings measures we will be referring to today are also contained in that report as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor; Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thank you Meghan.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'm glad you're with us.
Today Jim and I will provide an overview of second quarter results an update on operational and regulatory developments and a review of the progress we are making on the financial plan we outlined earlier this year.
I will also take this opportunity to clarify several topics that seem to be on the -- seem to be on our investors' minds which I believe have put undue pressure on our recent stock price.
We'll begin with a look at our financial results.
Today we announced solid second quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.59 per share.
These results are in line with our expectations and we are also reaffirming our 2013 non-GAAP earnings guidance range of $2.85 to $3.15 per share.
While I'm pleased with our second quarter performance and our outlook for the remainder of the year the PJM capacity auction results for the 2016 2017 period were disappointing.
As in the past we are not disclosing the number of megawatts from our competitive business that cleared the auction.
However as has been the case in other recent auctions not all of our generating units cleared.
Respecting the PJM auction I believe that there are significant and fundamental flaws in the process.
These flaws will not only impede investments in competitive generation resources and the development of a robust competitive market but will also ultimately impact reliability.
We will continue to work with PJM and others to address these flaws and in some cases loopholes that encourage gaming the system.
In the meantime however and in the wake of these auction results we are taking additional aggressive steps to further reduce our costs and improve operational performance.
We have thoroughly evaluated the economics of each of our plants as a result of the auction and current and future environmental regulations most significantly the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards or MATS.
As you may recall in 2012 shortly after MATS Rules were finalized we announced plans to deactivate units at 9 of our older coal-fire generating facilities.
As a result of our recent analysis we announced plans to further trim our fleet and deactivate 2 additional power plants by early October.
These are the 370-megawatt Mitchell Power Station in Courtney Pennsylvania; and the Hatfield's Ferry Power Station in Masontown Pennsylvania which is a 1 710-megawatt facility.
These deactivations are subject to PJM review for any reliability impacts.
The Hatfield Station is a large supercritical and scrubbed facility.
And while the Mitchell Station is older it is equipped with scrubbers.
However neither of these plants cleared in the 2016 2017 capacity auction.
And some of the individual units also did not clear in the 3 prior auctions.
Our analysis among other things consider that together Hatfield and Mitchell represent approximately 10% of our total generating capacity with about 30% of our estimated cost to comply with MATS regulations.
As a result of these closures our MATS compliance costs are expected to decrease from around $925 million to approximately $650 million.
And we continue to look for ways to refine and perhaps further reduce our expected MATS compliance costs.
The total reduction in capital over 5 years at these facilities including $275 million for MATS is approximately $500 million.
From an earnings perspective the closure of these facilities will be accretive by several cents annually going forward.
In addition to these decisions we've also canceled or delayed certain investments in other generating facilities which are expected to further reduce the capital needs in our competitive generation fleet by about $375 million over that same period.
In total this $875 million reduction in capital over the next several years is a vital component of our overall effort to manage cash effectively during this time frame.
We have also identified and are implementing additional cost opportunities across our organization.
These actions include reductions to medical and other benefits and additional organizational changes including a reduction in staffing and corporate support and the elimination of certain open positions throughout the organization.
Combined these actions are expected to reduce costs by about 100 -- by a total of $150 million to $200 million annually beginning in 2014 with some impact in 2013 as the changes are implemented.
These savings will run through both expenses and capital and we will have a better sense for the allocation as the savings are implemented.
We also announced that we will be moving to a cash balance pension plan for employees hired on or after January 1 2014.
While this will not impact current pension obligations it should change our pension responsibilities over time.
While many of the changes in our operations will have an impact on our competitive business they do not change our strategy.
We have had and plan to continue our asset-backed retail sales strategy in which our objective is to sell up to 25% more than we can produce.
This allows us to increase the utilization of our generating fleet throughout the year and take greater advantage of retail sales during otherwise low-load periods.
Since our competitive production capability however is expected to be lower as a result of the plant retirements and perhaps further reduced by the Harrison and hydro transactions we would expect that our future retail sales targets consistent with our strategy would also be less.
Even so from an actual sale standpoint our total retail sales may only be slightly less than current levels.
And more importantly given our current book of business we are in a position to be far more selective in our channel and customer activity.
Our strategy is about both volume and margin.
For example we have already booked more than 75 million-megawatt hours of channel sales for 2014 at prices above this year's.
And through the remainder of this year we anticipate locking in additional direct and POLR sales as auctions are conducted.
We are also seeing improved margin in our recent contracts and overall margin improvement by not pursuing renewal of some customer load.
So while the reduction in our competitive generation fleet will impact our production capability we do not expect it to have an appreciable effect on our retail sales plans.
I remain confident in our strategy and in the manner in which we are executing to deliver higher value to our shareholders.
Let me now move to a brief regulatory update as Leila is unavailable to join us today.
First respecting the Harrison proceedings in West Virginia.
We received FERC approvals for the proposed financing and transfers related to the transaction and the West Virginia Public Service Commission hearings on the asset transfer were completed in late May.
Briefs and reply briefs were filed by the parties in July.
And with the conclusion of the regulatory proceeding the commission may issue an order at any time.
We are however currently in active settlement discussions with all parties in this case and we are very hopeful that we can reach a resolution through this process.
I continue to believe that this transaction provides positive benefits to our Mon Power customers and the state of West Virginia.
And over time it will help maintain our rates in West Virginia at levels that are some of the lowest in the region.
Regarding the New Jersey generic proceedings on major storm costs.
On May 31 the Board of Public Utilities clarified that the prudence of the 2011 major storm costs would be reviewed in the generic proceeding with the goal of maintaining the schedule established for the base rate case where recovery of such costs would be addressed.
The board further indicated that it would review the prudence of our 2012 major storm costs in the generic proceeding and the recovery of such costs would be considered through a Phase II in the existing base rate case or through another appropriate method to be determined at the conclusion of the generic proceeding.
On June 21 we filed a detailed report of 2011 and 2012 major storm costs in this docket.
In the pending JCP&amp;L base rate case we will file rebuttal testimony this week refuting the testimony put forth by the Rate Council and other intervenors.
Hearings on the base rate case are scheduled for mid-September through mid-November.
We expect resolution in that case by the first or second quarter of 2014.
It's important to note however that JCP&amp;L has the lowest distribution rates in New Jersey and in some cases by a significant margin despite having one of the more difficult areas to serve since it is exposed to some of the greatest tree-density in the state as well as 74 miles of coastline.
Now turning to Ohio.
In Ohio as we mentioned during our last earnings call the State Senate introduced legislation Senate Bill 58 aimed at amending the current energy efficiency law that was originally passed in 2008 under Senate Bill 221.
In June the Senate Public Utilities Committee conducted a series of public hearings to determine whether these costs -- whether these costly mandates are serving Ohio's best interest and to gather stakeholder input on what changes are necessary.
We were very pleased to see Ohio business owners personally attend these hearings to express their concerns with the current law.
We expect that Senate Bill 58 will be revisited when the House and Senate reconvene in the fall.
In the meantime we remain actively involved in this process with Ohio's other electric utilities and other key stakeholders to determine what measures will most effectively reduce the cost burden of these standards in future years.
Also in Ohio the PUCO scheduled a series of workshops throughout the remainder of this year as part of a retail market investigation that the commission launched late last year.
FirstEnergy is fully participating in these workshops and we are sharing our thoughts on ways to create additional opportunities for suppliers to effectively compete.
We have a lot on our regulatory plate but with 10 operating utilities in 5 states it will probably not be unusual.
We have good regulatory relations and we are working with capable commissions to address all of these matters and other matters that will arise over time.
Now let's turn to our 2013 financing plan.
While Jim will provide additional details on our overall plan I wanted to note that we continue to make significant progress.
We recently became the first utility in Ohio to successfully take advantage of the new Securitization Act which allowed us to redeem certain debt at our Ohio utilities.
We also announced additional early debt redemptions at our Ohio utilities which in combination with the Securitization will put each of those companies in a very solid credit position.
And with an equity infusion from FE directly to FES along with the retirement of debt at FES we have substantially improved the credit metrics of that entity as well.
Further we recently completed the extension of our credit facilities through May of 2018 and we exercised the $500 million accordion option at the FE credit facility which should provide sufficient liquidity to the company.
Combined with other -- the other actions we've taken since the beginning of the year these are significant accomplishments in a very short period of time and place our subsidiaries in a much stronger financial position.
Progress also continues on our plan to sell up to 1 240 megawatts of our unregulated hydro generation assets.
First round indicative bids were received early in the quarter and we are involving a handful of interested parties in the deep dive process.
I expect that we will be in a position to take the next step in this process during the third quarter.
Through the combined actions we've taken across the company to reduce cash expenditures particularly the reduction in our generating fleet CapEx our equity needs have been reduced.
As a result we plan to issue equity only through a dividend reinvestment program and various stock-related benefit plans beginning later this year.
This is expected to provide approximately $100 million on an annual basis based on the current stock price and the anticipated participation levels.
Beyond this we have no plans to issue additional equity at this time.
This clarification of our plan should put to rest any further speculation regarding amount and timing of additional equity.
With respect to the dividend as you know our Board of Directors announced an unchanged quarterly dividend payment of $0.55 per share just 3 weeks ago.
Our dividend continues to be supported by the strength of our combined regulated utility and transmission operations.
As we reshape our balance sheet improve our liquidity and reduce our capital and other operating costs we will continue looking at opportunities for growth in our Regulated businesses with a strong focus on those that will improve customer service and provide attractive near-term returns to the company.
For example we are making solid progress on the transmission projects that we outlined earlier this year.
Portions of Black River Substation Ohio as an example is now in service and should be fully operational by September.
We're also on-target with the construction of the major transmission line that will ultimately connect the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station to a substation in Lorain County.
In New Jersey open houses were held in late June for our proposed Oceanview Reinforcement Project which will build a new 230 kV transmission line to reduce -- to add redundancy to the system and meet the growing demand for electricity.
And we are still planning to invest about $700 million through 2016 utilizing ATSI and TrAILCo to address reliability issues related to coal unit deactivations within our footprint.
We are also evaluating a number of additional opportunities within our service area that would further expand our transmission investments.
Given the size of our transmission system and service area the transmission investment opportunities that we have identified are in excess of $7 billion.
While it would take us some time to further define the projects and related time frame it is fairly clear that the opportunities within our footprint to grow our transmission business are substantial.
In our distribution business we are looking at the potential for rate cases in certain jurisdictions.
Mon Power would be one of those upon the successful completion of the proposed Harrison Pleasants transaction.
But we are also actively reviewing the potential for rate cases in other jurisdictions to assure a timely recovery of capital.
Further we are considering accelerated investments in smart meter technology where such programs are supported by a regulatory policy.
And we are looking for opportunities to expedite improvements in service reliability as is being supported in Ohio throughout our service area.
On the overall economic front things are obviously not yet where we want them to be but we continue to see progress and believe that the bottom is now behind us.
Our sales have been relatively stable over the last 3 years and we are now seeing increasing housing starts as well as significant growth in shale-related segments.
With continued growth and economic improvement we expect to again see higher distribution sales over time.
We continue to aggressively address our -- all aspects of our business: our generation fleet our operations our regulatory opportunities and our financial initiatives.
And by taking advantage of growth opportunities across our businesses and reducing expenses we believe we can continue to provide value to our shareholders.
Our strong second quarter results rigorous focus on cash management and our willingness to make decisions illustrate our ability to deliver even during tough economic times.
Thank you for your support.
And now I'll hand the call over to Jim for a review of second quarter results.
Thanks Tony.
As we walk through the second quarter results you may want to refer to the consolidated report which was issued this morning and is available on our website.
As Tony mentioned our strong results were solidly in line with our expectations.
Non-GAAP earnings for the second quarter of 2013 were $0.59 per share compared to $0.60 per share in 2012.
On a GAAP basis this year's second quarter results were a loss of $0.39 per share compared to earnings of $0.45 per share last year.
The full list of special items that make up the $0.98 per share difference between GAAP and non-GAAP second quarter 2013 results can be found on Page 4 of the consolidated report.
Most significant of these is $0.85 per share related to plant deactivations.
Other special items for the second quarter include: trust securities impairment of $0.05 per share debt redemption cost of $0.04 per share regulatory charges of $0.02 per share and a decrease of $0.02 per share related to merger accounting for commodity contracts.
Let's turn now to the results from our business units.
We'll begin with distribution deliveries which added $0.02 per share due to a 3% increase in residential deliveries.
Overall distribution sales decreased by 325 000 megawatt hours or 1% compared to the second quarter of 2012 as the increase in residential sales was more than offset by a 3% decrease in commercial deliveries and a 2% decrease in industrial sales.
Typically when we speak of the weather impact on residential distribution deliveries we are looking at heating and cooling degree days.
This quarter the discussion is a bit different because while second quarter temperatures were warmer than normal they were significantly cooler than the 2012 period.
However the month of June was more humid in 2013 than in 2012 which contributed to higher residential usage.
In addition you'll recall that June 2012 sales were negatively impacted by the derecho that swept through parts of our Ohio Pennsylvania Maryland and West Virginia territories on June 29 causing outages for more than 0.5 million customers.
Second quarter industrial sales increased in the chemical and refinery class but declined in the steel and automotive driven by the bankruptcy of RG Steel and the shutdown of the Ford Brook Park plant.
Those events both occurred in May 2012 so we expect some improvement in our year-over-year comparison in the steel and automotive classes starting in the third quarter.
Our full year forecast for 2013 calls for an overall increase of 2% in industrial sales with most of the increase attributable to shale gas activities.
Moving now to other drivers of the second quarter.
Reflecting our continued focus on cost control lower O&amp;M expenses increased earnings by $0.06 per share.
On the generation side of our business O&amp;M benefited from fewer nuclear refueling outages compared to the prior-year period and lower lease costs from the previously repurchased interest in the Beaver Valley Unit 2 and Bruce Mansfield plants.
On the distribution side expenses were lower due to our greater focus on capital work during the quarter and cost savings initiatives that were implemented last year.
Higher general taxes and a higher effective income tax rate decreased earnings by a total of $0.04 per share.
And finally depreciation expenses decreased earnings by $0.03 per share.
I'll turn next to commodity margin for our competitive business.
Commodity margin increased earnings by $0.08 per share compared to the second quarter of 2012 when you exclude the $0.11 per share impact of lower PJM capacity revenues.
While challenged by low market prices FES continued to strategically grow its retail business.
The total number of retail customers increased by approximately 700 000 in the past 12 months to 2.7 million by the end of the second quarter of 2013.
Total megawatt-hour sales in our competitive operations increased 7% and it increased earnings by $0.04 per share.
Looking now at each of our channels.
Governmental aggregation sales increased 31% in the quarter as a result of the continued successful expansion into Illinois.
We achieved 35% growth in mass market sales largely as a result of our successful marketing campaigns in Pennsylvania and Ohio.
Structured sales nearly doubled due to increased municipal cooperative and bilateral sales.
Direct sales to large and medium-sized commercial and industrial customers increased 1%.
And finally consistent with the trend over the past year or so and our retail strategy POLR sales continued to decrease as we realigned our portfolio.
Higher second quarter retail sales also had the impact of increasing both our purchase power cost and our transmission expense.
However these expenses were more than offset by lower capacity expenses higher wholesale sales and the net benefit of financial hedges associated with our sales and generation portfolio.
We also saw a lower average cost per fuel which is in large part a result of the work we did late last year to restructure and terminate certain coal contracts primarily at Harrison and Sammis.
We expect this fuel variance to continue through the end of the year.
Total second quarter ongoing generation output increased modestly by 870 000-megawatt hours as a result of higher capacity factors at our Fossil fleet.
Overall we are pleased with the quarter's solid results which demonstrate that even in very challenging times we can strike the right balance of achieving short-term performance while laying the foundation for what we believe is a strong long-term strategy.
For example as we mentioned last quarter we have slowed FirstEnergy Solutions' future hedging based on current market conditions.
FES has already exceeded its retail sales targets for 2013 with projected sales of 107 million-megawatt hours at an overall rate in line with the $53 per megawatt hour guidance we provided for the year.
Going forward we remain committed to implementing our plans for our competitive business but we have adopted an even greater focus on higher-margin sales opportunities and selected customer retention.
We continue to believe that our competitive retail strategy is the right approach for the long term and with continued careful executions will help ensure we are in a very strong position as market conditions recover.
I'll turn now to an update on our financial plans for the year.
As you will recall in February we laid out a plan that is structured to improve the balance sheet particularly at our competitive operations and enhanced liquidity.
As Tony said we have made a significant amount of progress during the first half of the year.
I'll walk you through the most recent accomplishments.
Tony mentioned that in June our utilities became the first in the state to successfully take advantage of the new Securitization Act which allows us to finance deferred cost using AAA-rated long-term securitization financing.
This transaction allowed us to redeem $410 million of debt at the Ohio utilities.
In addition to Securitization we plan to further reduce debt on our 3 Ohio utilities during the third quarter and have the issue notices to redeem an additional $660 million of debt.
As these plans are implemented we will have achieved our goal of significantly improving the credit metrics of each of our Ohio utilities.
As we discussed in the first quarter call through early May we had already taken action that resulted in the reduction of about $1.5 billion in long-term debt at our competitive businesses.
Subsequently FE Corp.
contributed $1.5 billion of equity to FES which used the funds to repay outstanding debt.
These actions have put the credit metrics for our competitive operations on more solid ground.
During the second quarter we also completed the extension of our credit facilities through May 2018.
And as Tony mentioned we exercised the $500 million accordion option on our revolver bringing the total size of the facilities to $6 billion.
Overall we've made very solid progress on the financial plan we laid out for this year and are reaffirming 2013 non-GAAP earnings guidance.
And looking at the bigger picture we're working through the challenging economic landscape by taking proactive steps to reduce capital and expenses without restricting our ability to create and take advantage of opportunities across all of our businesses.
As Tony mentioned we've made significant capital reductions of $875 million on the competitive side of the business with a continued focus on further refining both our MATS and other capital spend.
We have an intense focus on cost with $150 million to $200 million in further reductions already identified across the company through medical and benefit changes staffing reductions and changes to pension funding.
We are redeploying capital into regulated areas of our business that provide reliable returns such as the investments in our transmission business and the potential rate cases and growth opportunities in distribution.
In our retail business which has a strong book already in place for 2014 we plan to continue to be more selective in our channel and customer activity going forward.
Finally we will continue working to strengthen our balance sheet through our equity program and continued implementation of our financial plan.
As both Tony and I have outlined we have taken significant steps to reduce costs redeploy capital toward predictable and reliable return opportunities and move retail megawatt hours into higher-margin channels.
The end result will be a stronger FirstEnergy well positioned to address challenges and deliver positive results for shareholders.
Now I'll open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Listen I wanted to dig a little bit more into the $150 million to $200 million of savings.
And Tony I appreciate it's still a bit early in the process but can you maybe help bucket out what fits into kind of capital savings relative to O&amp;M savings given all the efforts you guys have done in the last couple of years already to bring cost down and capital out of the business? Dan this is Tony.
When you think about it it starts off all as an expense reduction.
But a big part of our expenses end up being capitalized because it's all people-related.
So it's going to really turn out to be a function of whether or not the workload and how it gets allocated -- is just going to be a question of whether or not that $150 million is going to be allocated to expense because that's where the individual would have or is working on or whether that will be moved over to capital because of that same rationale.
This isn't capital in the sense that we're delaying projects or eliminating projects.
These are real cash savings that will then get allocated depending on where our people are working and what projects we're working on during the time frame.
Research Division</strong> So how much headcount reduction goes into this then? Because that's -- I mean it's a lot of efficiency gains relative to your cost base.
I'd say Dan we said that there would be about 250 positions that would be eliminated.
Some were not filled and that was in addition to the 380 positions that were associated with the deactivation of those plants.
I think the bigger cost item will be the elimination of some of our benefit cost.
It's a bigger cost reduction than just the staffing in itself Dan.
So I would say that would be the more significant component of the cost reduction.
Research Division</strong> And this doesn't -- this is separate from the money you're saving from Hatfield and Mitchell closing right? That right that's right.
What I would say the O&amp;M savings associated with Mitchell and Hatfield that would align with the several-cent incremental earnings per share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I got it.
And then I'd ask just maybe 1 more question on this is that if you think about kind of from an O&amp;M inflation perspective net of these benefits what should we think about from a '13 baseline will be the O&amp;M inflation for FirstEnergy on a consolidated basis? I guess Dan we're going to wait and give you that next year or later this year when we give you 2014 guidance.
Obviously we'll be looking at all of our costs not just the ones that we've dealt with here.
But fundamentally each and every time we go about developing what our game plan is for the upcoming year we'll scrub all of the numbers and determine where best to spend our available cash.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Question you have in the release a reference to net MISO and PJM transmission costs.
What is that? And can you talk about whether transmission rights and underfunding is that the issue that you are referring to in that similar to one of your peers earlier this earnings season? Brian this is Donny.
Let me talk about the FTRs first because that seems to be a hot issue.
Like many of the other PJM market participants we also have experienced FTR underfunding.
However as we went into this year we had adjusted our hedging strategy to be less dependent on FTRs.
So versus our expectations the impact has been very minor.
If you think about what's going on there what's driving this underfunding there is a whole myriad of issues.
There's the themes issues between MISO and PJM.
There's the difference between what you would anticipate from kind of an infrastructure perspective when the FTRs are allocated versus what actually occurs with outages and that sort of thing.
And then obviously differences between how the day-ahead in real-time congestion is settled.
I think we also released that we in fact filed a complaint with FERC back in 2011 to try and address these issues and that case is still pending.
We are seeing funding coming in about 75% to 85% of what we feel we're entitled to.
So we believe we're being shorted somewhere in the neighborhood of 15% to 25%.
So while versus expectations it's a very minor impact to us on a year-to-date basis we believe our revenue was off for about $6.5 million about $0.01.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so that's not the MISO PJM transmission issue it's a separate issue.
Understood.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then with regards to the cost cuts just jumping back on Dan's earlier question.
Is there a breakdown you can give to what extent those cost cuts are related to deregulated operations versus regulated operations? No.
Right now we don't have that breakdown Brian.
And as a Tony said we're going to incorporate that into our 2014 plans and we'll probably be able to give a little more clarity then.
And our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So quick question.
It seems that there's been a little bit of a change in tact with regard to regulated rate base growth and positioning of the company.
Could you perhaps confirm that and perhaps speak to what a new rate base growth trajectory could be prospectively given some of the spending ambitions you guys spoke about on the distribution side? Julien I wouldn't necessarily describe it as difference.
I mean I -- we've always invested heavily in our regulated operations.
The fact is however that as you look to the future that there are probably stronger returns available and more predictable returns available from shifting investments towards transmission and other items as opposed to investing in generation assets.
That's kind of a decision we make all the time in the business.
The growth opportunities in transmission and distribution we're looking very closely at.
You've kind of -- I tried to give you a sense for the type of opportunities that are in the transmission business.
I wouldn't necessarily say they are the same types of opportunities in the -- one-off opportunities if you will in the distribution business but they are significant in the distribution business if in fact we start to perhaps accelerate smart meter technology throughout the system.
The timing is going to be dependent in large measure on when we believe it's time to begin to expand rate base in those areas and take advantage of those growth opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still not quite clear yet but stay tuned.
Perhaps looking at the back of the regulated -- unregulated side rather.
The latest RPM auction while you guys didn't want to disclose how many megawatts cleared kind of indicatively if you would in the latest auction relative to the last how significant was the change in cleared capacity? Do you get what I'm asking? If you can provide anything.
Nice try.
That's pretty good though.
Since you didn't know the first one or the second one I don't really know how to answer that.
The question was clear though.
You guys are getting better at this.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Tony you may have sounded more enthusiastic about the economy than you have in a while.
And even though the numbers -- the sort of sales numbers were not -- we're not seeing it in the numbers can you just sort of give us some more insight into what you're seeing in the customer base? And what's the basis for your commentary in the prepared remarks? Yes I think what we're seeing basically Jonathan is -- we think the bottom is behind us now.
Most of the plants that we think were particularly exposed for example the Ford Brook Park plant we talked about and that 1 steel operation they were closed in 2012 and we're starting to see that the other items are up significantly.
Some of the other steel mills that we have are up.
So once you get kind of through this period that we think now is bottomed out we're seeing some -- we're seeing really strong growth in shale areas in steel-related particularly item -- particularly steel mills that are operating in the pipe-related types of activity.
Like I said housing starts are up.
It's a slow start but it's far more positive than what we've seen in the past.
And we're starting to see some activity across each segment of the business.
Are you still on? Hello? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry Tony.
Hit the mute button.
You mentioned the accordion facility at the parent to upside that line $500 million.
Does that have cost implications? No.
It really doesn't have any cost implications other than you get always a charge for your unused capacity.
So you have very minor incremental cost associated with it.
Research Division</strong> Not something we're going to notice then Jim? Say that again Jonathan? Research Division</strong> Not something we're going to notice? No you will not notice it.
No.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I was wondering just -- sorry to be a little slow here but Brian I think was asking this.
What is the PJM MISO transmission cost? What is causing that? Because it was also a thing that hit you guys had in the first quarter as well? Yes I think Jonathan -- this is Donny.
The biggest driver there is just increased sales.
I mean we have to pay network transmission to deliver our product in many cases.
And so that's the biggest driver but we'll net some other things against that.
Okay.
And then the net financial sales and purchase what was that? The $0.02 there? Yes that's basically when you look at that we're hedging -- that's one of the instruments we use to hedge the congestion.
So we'll do a financial sale and a financial buy to hedge the congestion and that's the net of the 2.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the nuclear expense with the steam generators and everything just -- is there any flexibility on that? You did mention that you were thinking of potentially augmenting the CapEx going forward.
And I was just wondering given market conditions and everything whether there's been any change or any thought process on that if there is any flexibility on that.
Those steam generators you're probably referring to the Davis-Besse that we're planning in '14; and then we also have Beaver Valley 2 that's in '17.
And although you could move that it's very unlikely that we would because you have a pretty laid out schedule right there that you've got to meet and then you also got to plan what your outages are.
So I think it would be very unlikely that we'd be making any modification to that construction schedule.
Okay.
Great.
And then just finally with respect to the cost savings and stuff you mentioned a lot on the benefit side and what have you.
And I do see that the retirement benefit sort of noncash -- impact on the cash flow statement has sort of increased.
Is that the kind of thing that we should be thinking about? Should we be thinking about this as being one of those things that over the long term provides savings but in the near term that sort of accelerated in terms of the noncash accounting benefit because of the OPEB and the pension liability are lower? No I think the ones that we're talking about today while there could be some impacts there the ones we're talking about today are fundamental changes in plans.
Single administrator as an example.
Changing in plans that have higher deductibles.
Things of that nature are driving the real change and the cost savings.
So it will have a direct cash impact pretty quickly it would sound like starting in 2014? That's what we're expecting yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
Just on the equity issuance through the DRIP programs is that just a 2013 -- or do you intend to continue new equity through DRIP after '13? At this point we would expect that this would continue throughout next year.
And as we said it would be about $100 million on an annual basis Steve.
So you won't see $100 million this year.
It probably won't really get implemented until probably by the fourth quarter of next year.
But we would expect that to continue into next year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So from a model standpoint like just assume $100 million per year really starting in '14? That's correct.
LLC</strong> And then on retail margins it sounded like if I heard it you said that maybe you're actually seeing improving retail margins.
Because it seems like most other people keep complaining that retail margins are declining.
So maybe you could just give some color.
Just clarify kind of what you are seeing on retail margins? And maybe is it that you're targeting this different customer base or why do you think it might be very different than what we're hearing from others? Yes Steve this is Donny.
I think it is the way we're pushing into the different channels.
I think over the last several years we have talked about our multichannel approach.
And some of those channels are harder.
I mean retail sales residential retail sales is much harder than selling to a big C&amp;I customer.
Generally you get stronger margins there.
You have to be very careful about your cost to acquisition.
But if you think about for example our $0.07 for 7 years in today's market those contracts are paying very nice margins to us.
In general I think right now we've sold about 75 terawatt hours forward for 2014 and we're seeing an aggregate rate about $1 better than what we're delivering this year.
I think this year we're right about that $53 a megawatt hour.
Next year what we've got booked so far will produce something right around $54 a megawatt hour.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is just on the -- you mentioned the Hatfield shutdown and Mitchell that's about a 10% reduction in megawatt hours but obviously a lot of cash flow benefit from that.
The Other savings at generation in terms of cash flow I mean is there any additional impact on megawatt hour production? Or should we assume about that 10% reduction just from those plants? Yes I would assume it's probably about 9.5 to 10 million-megawatt hours that would be associated with the Hatfield and Mitchell.
So that's what I would assume for that.
LLC</strong> But the other cash flow savings that you mentioned don't have any associated reduction in megawatt hours? No no no.
That's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just talk about the credit position and the equity needs.
Regarding Harrison and the asset transfer if that were to not be approved how would that impact your thinking about equity requirements? I don't think that it would change our thought process on equity at all.
We've laid out our game plan for equity.
Those will not affect our decision-making.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a -- the period to get that transfer of Harrison would not -- wouldn't impact that okay.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching over to transmission you had mentioned a lot of potential growth.
As you think about the financing and structuring of that do you think much about different options in terms of how to finance that? Some folks have thought about a pure-play transmission approach or is this something we should just assume would very likely just continue to be funded sort of organically within FirstEnergy? My sense is that we will look at a number of different opportunities and determine what's in our best interest and our shareholders' best interest going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that is something that you are -- you do think about a variety of options there? It's not set in stone that it will always be simply funded within FirstEnergy? I think that's a fair statement yes.
And our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Tony I just wanted to recap what I heard so I apologize if I might be repeating some things.
One thing you said is that the generation transaction would be at least a couple of pennies or more accretive to EPS starting next year 2014.
I think -- so the other thing that came out is that there's $875 million of reduction in CapEx over this time horizon of MATS.
And if I can get what that is -- over what period is it 3 years? 5 years? I forget what the time frame of that is.
Thirdly you mentioned about $150 million to $200 million of lower cost reductions.
These are additional stuff.
And if I'm right you mentioned that a lot of them would be related to retirement benefits.
And if I'm hearing that's lower deductible and everything.
If I'm right those would mean lower I guess pension or retirement costs if I understand rightly what was described in the Q&amp;A.
If I can get a little bit of a clarifications on what I said if they are on the right track or not on the right track? Okay.
Well let me deal with the first one since I only said it's accretive.
I think Jimmy said it's what a couple of cents? Yes.
So I think the couple of cents is kind of what you ought to be thinking about.
The $875 million reduction in capital I think that's -- was that 5 years? Over that 5-year time frame.
With the bulk of that coming in the earlier years the time when the MATS expenditures would be coming through.
And with respect to the $150 million to $200 million I think you're a little confused.
The bulk of these expenditure or bulk of these savings relate to current employees.
Somebody raised a question with respect to retirees but the fact of the matter is the medical plan benefit changes and the other change that we are contemplating in benefits and otherwise are really related to the current benefit package we offer employees.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then if I heard we might get 2014 outlook this year at EEI or is that what we should look forward to? We'll give it to you when we're ready.
Our next question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
I have 2 quick questions.
One is the $54 per megawatt hour margin for the retail business for 2014.
Is that really comparable to the margins from this year given that there's a change in mix? For instance between retail and C&amp;I sales? Yes.
I think it's very comparable.
I mean if you think about what the markets have done as we booked those sales the wholesale markets have dropped off fairly steadily over the last several years.
And to be able to deliver a higher aggregate rate I think is significant.
No I'm actually more asking about if there is like a significantly higher SG&amp;A expense associated with those sales compared to the sales that are being executed this year? No.
No generally I think Angie what you'd see is our SG&amp;A expenses have come down.
I would especially point to fuel for example has come down significantly based on the work we did last year.
Okay.
And secondly I know that you're still in the midst of the hydro asset sales process.
But can you at least give us a sense of at this stage your expectations for the outcome of that sale as similar to expectations that you had earlier in the year? Yes I think at this point Angie we had the first round of indicative bids.
We had a lot of interest in the hydro assets.
We're in the process now of narrowing that down and we're continuing to evaluate that.
So I don't think there is any change at this point.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks for participating in the call and your continued interest in FirstEnergy.
Thanks.
Bye now.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you Ms.
Behringer you may begin.
Thank you Melissa and good afternoon.
Welcome to FirstEnergy's third quarter earnings call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause the actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Release link.
Today we will be referring to operating earnings which are non-GAAP financial measures previously referenced as normal as non-GAAP earnings.
Reconciliations to GAAP for operating earnings are contained in the consolidated report as well as on the investor information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thank you Meghan and good afternoon everyone.
I'm glad you could join us.
This morning we announced third quarter operating earnings of $0.94 per share in line with our expectations and we narrowed the 2013 operating earnings range to $2.90 to $3.10 per share maintaining the midpoint of $3 per share from our previous guidance of $2.85 to $3.15 per share.
While there were a host of small items some positive some negative the narrowing of the guidance primarily reflects that weather has essentially been neutral so far this year.
Jim will provide a more detailed overview of the third quarter financial results as well as an update on our cost control initiatives and financial plan we outlined earlier this year.
Leila will provide an overview of regulatory developments.
My comments today will focus on the actions we're taking to strategically reposition the company and improve its overall business profile.
We've always said that one of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our assets.
Our mix of operations as well as the size and scope of each of our 3 businesses provide the flexibility to capitalize on opportunities while mitigating risk and we are using that flexibility to improve our business profile.
I'll spend the next few minutes walking you through the actions we've taken to reduce our exposure to power markets control costs and turn our strategic focus to more predictable and sustainable growth through systematic investments in our core regulated businesses.
As you know our competitive operations have been challenged not by operational performance but by capacity in energy markets that do not support investment in or in some instances the operation of generating units.
While we can debate for reasons this is occurring the fact is power prices have been weak for the last couple of quarters and we may be facing continued soft power prices for at least the next several years.
As a result we began to reposition our competitive business in 2012 and now through a series of even more aggressive actions have better positioned this business for the future.
For example we have reduced the size and mix of the fleet by closing and selling competitive units.
Last month we closed the Hatfield and Mitchell Power plants and we expect to complete the sale of certain hydro assets later this year.
In addition we completed the Harrison and Pleasants transfer this quarter.
Once the RMR units are deactivated our competitive fleet will be a little more than 13 000 megawatts.
This is about the same size as our fleet prior to the Allegheny merger but it's a much stronger platform of units more environmentally controlled and more efficient overall.
As a result of these actions we reset our annual retail sales target to about 100 million-megawatt hours which fits into our overall strategy to sell at retail about 25% more than our fleet produces.
We also significantly decreased our competitive cost structure.
Annual operating expenses have been reduced through our continued focus on managing fuel costs and O&amp;M expense.
And more importantly our projected capital spending in the generation group over the next several years has been reduced by more than $1 billion through our recent actions.
This includes additional reductions in our expected spend for compliance with Mercury and Air Toxics Standards which is now at $465 million across the entire generation fleet with only an estimated $240 million at our competitive units.
The majority of the remaining capital will be invested in projects to extend the life of our nuclear assets with new steam generators at Davis-Besse in 2014 and new steam generators and reactor head at Beaver Valley 2 in 2017.
Finally we expect to reduce debt by $1.9 billion this year.
And as a result significantly strengthened the balance sheet and improved our credit metrics.
Through these initiatives we have changed the character of our competitive generating fleet by reducing both risk and costs.
And now we expect our competitive business to be cash flow positive over the next 3 years.
While we will discuss the outlook for the competitive business in more detail at the EEI Financial Conference the accumulative effect of these actions also puts us in a position to maintain investment-grade credit metrics over that period and retain the ability to take advantage of improving market conditions or market rule changes that begin to recognize the value of baseload assets diversity of supply and reliability.
More importantly the repositioning of our competitive operations shifts our earnings profile with regulated operations representing about 80% of operating earnings this year and increasing especially when coupled with the growth initiatives at the regulated businesses over time.
Now let's turn to a closer look at our regulated initiatives starting with the distribution business.
On the utility side as you know we have an active rate case in New Jersey and expect to file in West Virginia by April 2014.
We are also looking for near and mid-term opportunities to accelerate the modernization and efficiency of our utility distribution system including smart meters in order to continue to enhance reliability to customers.
These efforts are expected to produce additional rate base growth and associated modest earnings growth for our 10 operating companies over time.
Overall however growth in our utility business will be primarily tied to economic conditions.
While we have been experience only modest demand growth over the last couple of years from the very low points following the beginning of the recession we believe we are now seeing the early signs of a sustained recovery.
But we are cautiously optimistic that our service area will begin to again see the robust growth associated with manufacturing expansion.
The signs of growth in industrial sales over the first 9 months of this year are encouraging particularly the activity associated with shale gas in our region.
Already shale gas-related sales have resulted in 400 megawatts of new industrial demand in addition and an additional 500 megawatts of planned expansions at customer facilities.
These projects are expected to result in nearly 4% industrial growth over the next 2 years.
In addition we see a robust pipeline of midstream projects with opportunities for an additional 4 million-megawatt hours of growth through 2018.
And as these gas fields are more fully developed the opportunity for additional manufacturing expansion could further accelerate growth.
While we are optimistic about these opportunities in our distribution business the majority of our growth over the next several years will come from investments in transmission.
As we told you earlier the transmission opportunity within the FirstEnergy footprint is in excess of $7 billion.
So this is a near-term and importantly a continuing platform for stable and predicable growth.
And as part of our repositioning efforts we will begin to increase our investment in our transmission business.
Last week our Board of Directors approved as a part of our energizing the future program a new multiyear $2.8 billion incremental investment in a transmission reliability excellence plan.
The plan includes additional transmission investments above current plans which are expected to be about $500 million in 2014 growing to about $700 million in 2015 and about $800 million in both 2016 and 2017.
This program will begin with investment primarily in ATSI but will ultimately extend throughout our service area.
We currently expect to fund these investments with a combination of debt and equity.
These projects include rebuilding lines and equipment to improve reliability and reduce future maintenance costs enhancing and expanding communication networks to harden the system and increasing system capacity to meet the service level and reliability requirements of our customers.
We will provide a more detailed multiyear view of our expectations including our planned investments financing plans and growth opportunities in the transmission business and our outlook for the competitive business at EEI next week.
Slide deck will be posted through our website on Sunday morning and I will be making a presentation Tuesday morning.
For those of you who are not attending the event a live webcast of my remarks will be available on our website.
To close the cumulative impact of our actions has been to reposition this company.
These actions have resulted in a reduction of our exposure and risk to power markets while simultaneously increasing growth through our regulated operations.
And we expect that our regulated operations will represent a growing percentage of earnings and more importantly our overall growth with the end result being an improved business profile.
Our team will continue to look at every facet of our business to identify further opportunities to lower our costs minimize exposure to risk and create value to our shareholders.
And I am very excited about the opportunities as we position this company for the future.
Now I'll turn it over to Leila for a regulatory update.
Leila? Thanks Tony.
This has been a busy period in our regulated service area and I will update you on the status of several matters in West Virginia Pennsylvania Ohio and New Jersey.
In West Virginia we achieved a settlement in August with the majority of the parties through our generation transaction involving the Harrison power station and received an order from the Public Service Commission of West Virginia on October 7 approving the transaction with certain conditions.
On October 9 the company has accepted the conditions and the transaction closed.
Mon Power sold its approximate 8% share of the Pleasants Power Station for about $73 million to Allegheny Energy Supply and Allegheny Energy Supply sold its approximate 80% share of Harrison to Mon Power at a book value of $1.2 billion.
The transaction resulted in a net purchase price of about $1.1 billion to Allegheny Energy Supply and Mon Power's assumption of a $73.5 million pollution control notes.
The settlement also provided for a reduction of approximately $330 million to the West Virginia rate base valuation of Harrison.
Mon Power now has 100% ownership of the Harrison power station.
This transaction preserve the opportunity to use locally mined coal sustaining employments and benefiting the regional economy.
The terms of the agreement also require the filing of base rate case in West Virginia for Mon Power and the Potomac Edison no later than April 30 2013.
We also continue to evaluate the opportunity for additional rate cases across our service territories to help insure timely recovery of our investment.
Let's turn now to Pennsylvania.
In September the U.S.
district court granted the public -- Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission motion to dismiss the Met-Ed and Penelec proceedings on the recovery of $254 million and marginal transmission losses and associated carrying charges through the transmission service charge writer.
We disagree with this ruling and filed a notice of appeal with the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit on October 29.
We completed the process of refunding customers in May but in light of the district court's September ruling we recognized the impairment for this item in the third quarter financial statement.
Also in Pennsylvania Met-Ed Penelec Penn Power and West Penn Power filed as a default service plan with the PA PUC yesterday.
The plan outlines the method by which the companies will procure the supply for their default service obligations for the period of June 2015 through May 2017.
The company's programs call for quarterly descending clock auctions to procure a 3 12 24 and 48-month energy contracts as well as 1 RFP seeking 2-year contracts to secure a solar renewable energy credits from Met-Ed Penelec and Penn Power.
The company's expected decision from the PA PUC within 9 months.
In Ohio the state Senate introduced substitute Senate Bill 58 which is aimed at modifying the energy efficiency provisions originally passed in 2008 under Senate Bill 221.
The bill sponsor Senator Bill Sykes is presiding over a series of hearings and is pushing to get these modifications passed into law by the end of this year.
The House of Representatives has also introduced a companion bill House Bill 302 with committee hearings now underway.
This path Senate Bill 58 would set a spending limitation on the cost state-mandated energy efficiency programs in future years clarify the energy efficiency measures that may count toward meeting the benchmarks and give our largest customers the ability to opt out of mandated programs and pursue their own energy efficiency programs.
The bill has the support of every Ohio and owned investor utility and has broad breed support from larger business community including the Ohio Chamber of Commerce and union groups including the Affiliated Construction Trades IBEW and Ohio ironworkers.
In addition the Industrial Energy Users of Ohio Ohio Energy Group Ohio Steel Council and more than 350 independent job creators and economic development groups across Ohio have voiced their support.
Finally in Ohio the POLR auction that took place on October 22 resulted in a clearing price for a 1-year product of $50.91 per megawatt-hour and a clearing price for 2-year product of $59.99 per megawatt-hour for the delivery period starting in June 2014.
These results will be delighted [ph] with previous auctions and 1 remaining auction to establish retail generation rates from June 1 2014 through May 31 2015.
In New Jersey a prehearing order was recently issued setting forth the procedural schedule for JCP&amp;L storm cost generic proceeding.
Evidentiary hearings will be held in January regarding the amount and prudency of the 2011 and 2012 major storm costs.
Hearings on our base rate case are scheduled to continue through mid-November.
We still expect resolution of the base rate case by the first or second quarter of 2014.
Also in New Jersey the United States district court for the District of New Jersey recently ruled that New Jersey's long-term capacity agreement pilot program El Cap[ph] is unconstitutional because it violates the supremacy clause of the U.S.
constitution.
Accordingly JCP&amp;L's 2 remaining contracts with suppliers under the El Cap[ph] law were determined by the federal court to be void.
As always we will continue working to ensure the best possible business environment for our company.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Leila.
Let's get started with a look at our financial results.
You may want to refer to the consolidated report which was issued this morning and is available on our website.
As Tony mentioned earlier our third quarter operating earnings of $0.94 per share were in line with our expectations.
These results compare with third quarter 2012 operating earnings of $1.11 per share.
On a GAAP basis this year's third quarter earnings were $0.52 per share compared to $1.02 per share last year.
The full list of special items that make up the $0.42 per share difference between GAAP and operating earnings can be found on Page 5 of the consolidated report.
Most significant of these are regulatory charges of $0.36 per share primarily related to the impairment of Met-Ed and Penelec's regulatory assets associated with transmission line losses which Leila just mentioned.
Other special items for the third quarter include trust securities impairment of $0.03 per share plant deactivation cost of $0.02 per share a decrease of $0.02 per share related to merger accounting for commodity contracts restructuring charges of $0.01 per share and gains of $0.02 per share for debt redemption and mark-to-market adjustments.
Turning now to the drivers of our operating earnings.
A lower effective income tax rate increased earnings by $0.09 per share.
I'll take a moment to talk through this item.
In 2012 our effective tax rate was 41% primarily due to increases in the valuation allowances against net operating losses.
This year as outlined in our earnings guidance we assumed an effective tax rate of about 38% largely reflecting the realization of state tax planning initiatives to simplify our tax structure and our estimated mix of earnings.
Additionally in the third quarter of 2013 in conjunction with filing our 2012 tax returns we were able to eliminate state tax obligations associated with earnings that were previously allocated to certain tax jurisdictions.
This resulted in a third quarter earnings benefit of $0.05 per share and will also reduce our state tax exposure for these jurisdictions going forward.
Based on these efforts our third quarter year-to-date effective tax rate is 36% and we now estimate our effective tax rate for 2013 at approximately 37%.
Earnings also benefited by $0.02 per share as a result of lower general taxes.
Looking at negative drivers.
O&amp;M expenses reduced third quarter earnings by $0.06 per share.
Most of this increase is related to an O&amp;M benefit in 2012 that resulted from the capitalization of utility project cost associated with aligning Allegheny's work management system.
In addition O&amp;M also reflects higher expenses related to fossil outages during the third quarter of 2013.
Earnings were also impacted by lower investment income of $0.03 per share higher interest expense of $0.01 per share and increased depreciation expenses of $0.04 per share.
We'll now move to a review of our business results starting with distribution deliveries.
Total deliveries decreased 2% in the quarter or 817 000-megawatt hours and reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
Cooler summer temperatures compared to the third quarter of 2012 resulted in a 7% decrease in residential deliveries and a slight reduction in sales to commercial customers.
Absent the impact of weather third quarter residential sales would have been essentially flat compared to 2012.
But more importantly high-valued commercial sales would have been approximately 3% higher than last year on a weather adjusted basis.
Year-to-date residential and commercial demand is essentially flat on weather that is tracking near-normal across the first 9 months of the year.
Although we are not yet seeing anything like a return to historic growth trends housing starts continue to increase.
The increase in weather-adjusted [Audio gap] increased 3% compared to the third quarter of 2012 led by higher demand from steel customers largely related to shale gas activity and the automotive sector.
While our regional economy is still lagging the country demand from our industrial customers is up slightly year-to-date.
And as Tony mentioned we're seeing some bright spots in this area.
Moving to commodity margin at our competitive business.
Commodity margin decreased earnings by $0.13 per share compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The overall decline in commodity margin reflects increased competitive pressures as well as the $10 drop in wholesale prices that took place in late 2011 and early 2012 when our retail sales position for 2013 was still about 50% open.
Our fourth quarter results will reflect similar pricing and tightened margins compared to 2012.
However we expect our average prices to begin trending upwards starting in the first quarter of 2014.
The average rate for 2014 committed sales is about $1 per megawatt-hour above our 2013 expectation of $53 per megawatt-hour and committed sales for 2015 are currently about $4 higher than 2013.
Generation output from ongoing units increased by 1.6 million megawatt-hours.
Fuel expense increased as a result of higher output but the impact was moderated by lower fossil fuel prices that were negotiated in 2012.
Capacity revenues from our generation fleet also increased as a result of higher auction prices.
The increase in ongoing generation output was driven by greater economic dispatch of our fossil units based on higher power prices and the absence of a temporary idling of the W-8 [ph] Sammis plant last year.
However the timing of several unplanned and forced outages during the third quarter of 2013 mainly for a reactor coolant pump at Davis-Besse and generator repairs of Sammis resulted in loss sales opportunities and higher purchase power costs this year.
Purchase power expenses also increased due to market prices that were higher on average than 2012 and greater retail channels sales volumes.
Commodity margin also decreased as a result of increased transmission rates to serve POLR load in Pennsylvania primarily reflecting the transfer of certain transmission charges to suppliers that took place in June as well as increased capacity expense primarily due to a higher rate associated with our retail sales in the MACT region.
Contract sales increased to 1.9 million-megawatt hours compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Total megawatt-hour sales in our competitive operations increased 7% and benefited earnings by $0.08 per share as the higher volume on these sales offset lower prices.
Looking at each of our channels structured sales increased 81% due to higher municipal cooperative and bilateral sales.
We achieved 15% growth in market sales driven by our ongoing campaigns in Pennsylvania Ohio Illinois and Maryland.
Direct sales to the large and medium-sized commercial and industrial customers increased 3% due to customer growth in Central and Southern Ohio.
Governmental aggregation sales increased 11% due to our continued expansion into Illinois where 109 new communities have been signed since the third quarter of last year.
And POLR generation sales decreased 9% consistent with the ongoing realignment of our portfolio.
FirstEnergy Solutions continues to selectively growth its retail business and increased its retail customer base by 219 000 customers or 9% in the past 12 months.
As FES becomes more selective in response to greater competition margin pressure and a slightly reduced sales target in future years we expect this customer growth to slow.
However FirstEnergy Solutions continues to focus on profitable sales across a variety of channels and customer groups.
We have the resources to generate about 75 million to 80 million megawatt-hours from our ongoing fleet and our asset-backed sales strategy continues to target selling about 25% more than we produce.
For 2013 our committed sales stand at 108 million megawatt-hours and we continue to expect full year competitive generation output of 93 million megawatt-hours this year consistent with our earlier guidance.
For 2014 we have booked about 82 million megawatt-hours and we expect to boost that number in January as we have a significant contract renewal cycle beginning later this year.
Our committed sales for 2015 are about 43 million megawatt-hours again consistent with the lower end of our glide path.
Let's turn to an update on the financial plan that we introduced in February.
Through a series of actions this year we have made significant progress towards completing the plan strengthening our credit metrics and reducing our risk profile.
Starting at our competitive subsidiaries.
In October we completed the Harrison Pleasants transaction which Leila mentioned.
And by the end of the year we expect to complete the sale of 527 megawatts of competitive hydro assets for approximately $400 million subject to various closing conditions.
These transactions coupled with our $1.5 billion equity infusion from FirstEnergy Corp.
and $1.9 billion of expected debt reduction at FES and Allegheny Energy Supply have positioned our competitive businesses to better navigate current market conditions.
And looking forward the maturity of existing sale-leasebacks will result in an additional $400 million debt reduction by 2017.
We've also strengthened the balance sheets at our utilities as part of our efforts to refinance debt and reduce short-term borrowings.
In August we completed a $500 million long-term issuance at JCP&amp;L.
At our hybrid utilities we redeemed more than $1.1 billion of long-term debt and issued securitized debt of approximately $445 million and Mon Power is financing the Harrison transaction with a mixture of debt and an infusion of equity from FE Corp.
At the parent level earlier this year we issued $1.5 billion in FE Corp.
notes at very attractive and low interest rates extended the maturity on existing credit facilities to May 2018 and upsized the FirstEnergy Utilities facility by $500 million.
And finally in late September we filed a registration statement with the SEC to register 4 million shares of common stock to be sold to registered shareholders and employees under our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan.
We expect to issue approximately $100 million of equity going forward on an annual basis by fulfilling obligations under this plan and other share-based benefit plans with newly issued shares.
This financial plan which is now virtually complete successfully improve the balance sheet at our competitive and regulated businesses and enhance liquidity in a very short period of time.
And we remain committed to investment-grade credit metrics at each of our businesses.
Finally last quarter we told you that we were targeting $150 million to $200 million in cost control opportunities beginning in 2014.
We have identified a total of $170 million in reductions with about $130 million representing O&amp;M reductions.
These cost actions are well underway and include changes to medical and other benefits and a realignment of our staffing which was completed during the third quarter.
We will continue to look for opportunities to further reduce our cost while preserving the flexibility to create and take advantage of opportunities across all of our businesses.
We have however repositioned the business profile of the company by reducing exposure to competitive markets and by moving forward with a more predictable and stable growth plan.
As Tony stated earlier our regulated operations are expected to represent about 80% of operating earnings this year and increase over time.
Now I'd like to open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on -- I knew you're going to probably give us a lot more detail at the EEI and the transmission spending.
But just kind of as we start to plot out the capital being deployed.
Can you walk through what if any approvals need to be made to start spending the money? And if there's any threshold requirements over economic benefit or any sort of measures that have to be considered when you guys look at these dollars being deployed? Well at this point Dan as we start this project most of this is is internal approvals only.
We're concentrating initially on our 69 kV system and the 34.5 kV system which will be upgraded to 69.
So much of what we do will be below power siding approvals or any other specific approvals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you said that those dollars can be targeted primarily at ATSI in the first few years that should we see the majority of that first 4 years can be kind of independent in the ATSI structure or is that going to creep into some of the legacy Allegheny transmission systems as well? Well we have a fairly robust transmission program over the next several years.
Part of which we talked about before and more will discuss at the EEI Financial Conference.
But we'll be spending across the footprint.
The transmission reliability program that we announced today is primarily ATSI.
We'll begin in ATSI I should say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 14 and 15 is ATSI and then it probably catches up in the other jurisdictions? Well again we're only talking about the incremental spend over and above what we're already planning that is primarily ATSI at the beginning.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I guess just on the cost cutting program Jim with $170 million of cash benefits.
Do you guys have any feel for kind of what the underlying O&amp;M growth rate is going to be if we look at 14 15 16 just to try to get a handle on inflation? We're not in a position to give any of that O&amp;M growth rate.
But the way I look at this Dan is these actions we've taken are going to help mitigate any types of cost increases going forward such as general wage increases and that.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you in kind of flattening out of O&amp;M is that the right way to read that? Well Dan why don't you wait until we provide guidance in the future.
We're doing everything we can just like we always have to maintain O&amp;M and only incur the types of costs that are absolutely we can't really avoid.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just staying on transmissions Tony I think you said that your intent was to finance the $2.8 billion with debt and equity.
So -- I mean are we saying that this $100 million a year that Jim spoke to is sufficient to provide to go to the the equity piece of build out or is that sort of a separate financing that you weren't really speaking to? Jonathan my plan is to give you a little more detail next week.
I think what Jim was trying to indicate basically is that the minimum amount of equity that's going to be necessary will be the continuation of whatever that program as we call it it's the dividend reinvestment and the employee benefit types of programs.
So I would -- so from your modeling standpoint you can assume that that's going to continue through at least this period and then we will be evaluating in discussing more with you next week some of the options as the transmission spend grows over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we start sort of a -- will look forward to hearing that next week.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first perhaps not to spill to much in there for next week but could you perhaps summarize if you will the growth trajectory and output base from on EPS perspective you're talking about for transmission just kind of summarizing everything? It's up.
You'll hear about it Next week.
Research Division</strong> All right fair enough.
I'll hang tight there.
With regards to the hedge position in '15 you talked about a $4-megawatt hour improvement on what it seems to be like 43 million megawatt hours.
How much of that -- is that correct first off? Yes.
Research Division</strong> How much of that is derived from capacity price improvement versus through energy hedge position if you get what I'm saying? Like because I take it that that price is in on-inclusive numbers? Yes it is.
And Donny is here.
He can jump in.
But the majority of that increase Julien would be from the capacity.
Yes that's correct.
Jim made reference back to the 13 number.
And so as the roll-off occurred and we faced lower wholesale prices obviously the energy component gets depressed Julien.
Research Division</strong> Now I don't want to push this too far but is there actually a negative offset in the energy and actually the capacity more than offset the decline in the energy price? Or is it...
Yes I thank you know what the capacity prices are out there.
So you can calculate that Julian and I have not that done that calculation.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Fremont with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is have you guys looked at potential opportunities to ultimately separate out your transmission business? Paul we look at all types of opportunities.
Obviously as we think about how we're going to finance and address these issues over time.
Right now we're pretty comfortable with where we're at.
That doesn't necessarily mean that it'll stay that way.
But that clearly is something that has been on our radar screen for quite some time.
Research Division</strong> And the other question that I have is with respect to the O&amp;M cut of 130 that you've already identified how much of that is utility and how much of that is competitive business? I don't have the exact breakdown on that Paul.
But I would say it's probably about in the 50/50 range since a lot of it deals with benefit reductions that would be similar for all of our staff.
I would just look at 50/50.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to first talk about your -- the coal cost for your fleet.
As you look out obviously the coal industry is facing pressure.
Do you see opportunity there in terms of further negotiations in terms of your coal cost and your outlook given the pressure that the coal industry is facing? Or how should we think about your coal cost over time? Go ahead Donny.
Stephen this is Donny.
I think we have a pretty solid track record over the years of being able to keep our coal cost low and actually push them down even in a rising market.
So obviously we'll continue to pull on all of the levers.
I think it is getting more difficult as our coal suppliers are hitting points to where they're kind of operating at some of their cash cost so it becomes more difficult.
But we'll continue to pull on all those levers.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then I guess just switching over to the big ass side of things.
Tony you mentioned at the beginning the gas outlook is challenging and the power price outlook is challenging.
As you all look out today and you think about the size of your retail business at about 100 million-megawatt hours overtime which is I guess about 25% above fleet output do you see that staying fairly stable? Or given the sort of gas and power look as you see it out in '15 and '16 is there a potential that that retail business would need to get a bit smaller than the 100 million-megawatt hours? I don’t -- I'm not seeing that.
I think it's perhaps just the opposite in terms of whether or not you want to take some additional risk as opposed to give up customers.
So I think there will be a balancing as we go forward in that portfolio.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of sort of fill-in-the-blanks type of questions.
Tony you mentioned that you expect that you may be facing -- market may be facing weak power prices over the next several years.
What -- it seems to me you've been more bullish than that in the past.
What has changed your mind? Well I think Kit in the main I'm still bullish on the competitive markets overall.
But reality is we had a PJM auction for 16 and 17 which was I think in everyone's thought process is much weaker than any one anticipated.
The delay in shutting down generation across the overall footprint as well as the what is it a parent reliance and the market on what I consider to be a softer generating substitutes or resources all have an impact.
The question will be what happens over time? And from our perspective it's far more important for us to manage our business given that if it stays soft we're prepared and positioned where we're cash flow positive and we can talk about more of the details later.
And if it improves and we certainly would like to see some of the obstacles eliminated to help that happen we'll be in a very strong position to take advantage of it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I noticed though that in your...
But we're not going to sit back and hope and wait.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
We're going to take action.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What role -- where do you see -- let me just ask it this way.
What's your kind of middle and longer-term growth rate that you project for your service territories? And in assessing future pricing in PJM what you do see as the growth rate for sales in PJM overall? Again I'm -- we're not going to talk about that kind of stuff Kit as we go forward nor am I going to give you an indication of how I -- where I think the markets are going to go.
We're targeting about 100 million-megawatt hours in sales.
We think we can accomplish that.
We're over that this year so it'll be a little bit of pruning as opposed to acquiring but I think we'll be doing both over the next several years as we reshape that portfolio to customers and markets in areas in which we can produce greater returns.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I just wanted to touch base with you on just the transmission again.
Is this -- this $2.8 billion is part of the $7 billion I think you said before is that correct? Yes.
Okay.
And what sort of triggered this appraisal of this need? Was there -- was it Sandy? Was there -- I mean is there anything that -- is it cyber stuff? What -- I mean it seems like a pretty large increase that you guys have come up with.
I'm just wondering what led you guys to it? Well I think it's a combination of factors.
All of these items -- I mean we don't come up with this list in a day.
All these items are systematically -- as we evaluate our system much of which in terms of age of infrastructure is reaching towards end of life.
It's time now to begin the process of putting that system in a position where it provides continuing strong service to customers and now is the time to start it.
Obviously we were hoping that the economy would have recovered earlier that there would have been different opportunities across the footprint.
But with what is happening around us and for many conversations we've had with customers in terms of what they'd like to see our system be capable of doing what we're trying to do is address those as we prepare the system for what is going to have to be capable of delivering down the road.
Okay.
Now there have been a whole bunch of transmission proposals for market-to-market congestion between MISO and PJM.
I was wondering if you saw any opportunity in that? And also if you saw any potential impact to PJM markets as a result of some of the things that are being proposed by some of your -- some of the other guys around you? Well I'm not -- we're concentrating primarily inside our footprint.
We've got a large transmission system and our focus is on that.
Obviously I think being able to increase transmission capability inside PJM would be helpful.
I mean it's frustrating that we can get generation from Louisiana to Ohio but we can't get from the Ohio River to Philadelphia.
So there are a lot of things that can be addressed inside that space over time.
It all takes time and it all takes a lot of effort to accomplish.
But the fact of the matter is from our perspective we're looking internally.
We're not looking for projects that have long lead times with respect to either approval processes or likely construction processes.
And we'll give you a lot more of that detail in this upcoming meeting.
Okay.
And then just on sort of a housekeeping item.
On Page 14 of the cash flow statement there's an $18 million noncash gain from asset sales and I was just wondering what that represented? And I guess that sounds like -- it was a noncash benefit to net income I guess is what that looks like to me.
What was that? That was the sale of the synchronous condensers from FirstEnergy Solutions to ATSI.
Okay.
So there is a net income impact for the company? Not on an operating basis.
Okay.
So it's part of the -- okay.
And you guys can you give us -- I know you guys are sort of hesitating on giving guidance for 2014 but any sense as to what a normalized tax would be for 2014? No I mean if you look at the tax rate it's going to range somewhere from 37% to 38% this year primarily closer to 37%.
But the tax rate in any given year is going to be based on the mix of earnings.
So we'll have to look at it as we kind of prepare for 2014 earnings guidance.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just on the -- first clarification on the transmission spending plan.
I know there were some much lower base spending before the new plan.
Is that included in the numbers you provided or that -- what was the base before this? I think our base transmission spend over this time frame I'm not sure we've identified that in the past but this would be in addition to that.
But we'll try to give you a better sense for that as we go forward.
So I think the only real transmission spend we've identified which is obviously in part of the base plan is the significant amount of transmission investment that's being put in place across our system to deal with power plants that are being shut down by 2015.
Now if I remember that number and don't hold me to this but I think it was in the $700 million range.
And then to that you would add kind of the normal transmission spending that we have in each of our service areas including for projects like the light project in Jersey at Jersey Central Power &amp; Light that was announced about a year or so ago.
So all of those kind of come together kind of normal baseline spending that you're going to do in any event the kind of additional spending you have in connection with power plant shutdowns enhancement programs like the Jersey light program.
And now on top of those is the additional transmission incremental spend of $2.8 billion.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just also on distribution.
I know you mentioned things like smart grid and such.
Is there a meaningful increase in the rate base investment or CapEx and distribution? Well we spend in excess of about $1 billion a year on distribution capital.
So rate base grows every year.
There will be opportunities and I think Leila will be seeking them out in the various jurisdictions.
There are areas in distribution not of -- electric distribution not unlike in gas distribution where underground facilities should be getting replaced and we ought to work through the kind of mechanisms that the gas industry generally has which typically are more favorable than the electric.
So there's a lot of opportunities not only with respect to smart meters but with respect to upgrading aging infrastructure overall.
Operator we'll take one more call.
Our next question comes from the line of the Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
[Technical Difficulty] We can barely hear you.
Maybe this is going to be better.
I had a question about your expectation for ATSI capacity prices given your transmission CapEx.
Do you expect that ATSI will continue to clear at a premium versus RTO? Your spending quite a bit of CapEx on your transmission lines so how should we think about ATSI capacity prices going forward? Donny could you answer that? Angie this is Donny.
I think as time goes forward there's probably a lower probability that ATSI separates.
But I would think probably this coming May it will probably still separate would be my guess.
But what you'll see is as we get out beyond that period if it still separates.
Okay.
Secondly when you mentioned the price the sale price for the FES' secured sales volumes and you told us that we do know what the capacity revenue or the capacity prices are should we assume that you are averaging out the spike in ATSI capacity prices throughout say '15 '16? Or should we assume that there is just as the cleared prices where -- that we have a sudden spike in capacity revenues hence the contribution of capacity through '15 sales prices is higher? Angie in general those are going to be levelized capacity charges depending on obviously the length of the contract.
We do have a few customers not many but a few customers that allow the capacity as a pass through so that would be the one exception.
And lastly Tony you mentioned free cash flow positive.
The expectations and investment-grade rating expectations for FES for the next 3 years.
Do you include '13 in this comment or is it '14 '15 '16? Yes Angie we would include all 4 years in that.
We've made a significant improvement there in '13 with our competitive business unit the metrics.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
We remain committed to providing value to shareholders while positioning FirstEnergy for sustainable long-term growth.
Thanks for your support and your interest in FirstEnergy and I look forward to seeing you many next week at EEI.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you Ms.
Beringer.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine and good afternoon.
Welcome to FirstEnergy's fourth quarter earnings call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp are based on current expectations that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause the actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the earnings information and financial releases link.
Today we will be referring to operating earnings which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Reconciliations to GAAP earning from operating earnings are contained in the consolidated report as well as on the investor information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Please note that our annual report on Form 10-K is expected to be filed within the next several days.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of First Energy Solutions; John Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steven Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thank you Meghan and good afternoon everyone.
I'm glad you could join us.
I will start today's call with an overview of 2013 including our unaudited results and accomplishments.
We will also take another look at our areas of focus for 2014 and the next several years.
I will then turn the call over to Leila.
In January Leila took on an expanded role that now includes responsibility for our competitive business.
So she will provide a power market outlook in addition to our normal update on regulatory developments.
Finally Jim will share a more detailed overview of the fourth quarter financial results and review our 2013 financial achievements.
Then he will discuss 2014 initiatives before turning the call over for questions.
Okay.
Let's get started.
This morning we announced operating earnings of $0.75 per share for the fourth quarter of 2013 and $3.04 per share for the full year at the upper end of our guidance which reflects our strong operating performance for the year.
As you know 2013 was a challenging year for the company as we took action to improve our financial position lower our cost structure and position the company for more stable and predictable growth through our regulated holdings.
And some of our key accomplishments included successfully implementing our financial plan which reduced our debt out of our competitive business by $1.5 billion improved its credit metrics and strengthened its balance sheet.
We reconfigured our generation our competitive generation fleet and as a result reduced cost while retaining a mix of generating assets that is more cost effective efficient and environmentally sound.
We also successfully completed the Harrison and Pleasants' asset transfer which is expected to help ensure reliable power for our Mon Power and Potomac Edison customers in West Virginia for many years to come.
We deactivated the Hatfield and Mitchell plants.
And we recently completed the sale of certain hydro units.
Finally we announced a long term growth strategy in our transmission business targeting $4.2 billion in investments over the next four years.
In combination these actions and others are repositioning the company's business profile to be far more focused on regulated operations.
Respecting our business results for 2013 I will start with our competitive operations.
During the year contract sales at FirstEnergy Solutions increased 9% from 2012 to nearly 109 million megawatt-hours.
Full year total generation output was nearly 93 million megawatt-hours which is about a 4% decrease from 2012 and that largely reflects the smaller size of our competitive fleet that occurred during the calendar year 2013.
Our Nuclear Fleet completed several significant achievements including the successful installation of new low pressure turbines at both Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 1.
These installations will increase our nuclear capacity by about 45 megawatts.
Both Davis-Besse and Beaver Valley continue their overall strong and safe operating performance and Perry returned to the nuclear regulatory commissions routine levels oversight recognizing its improved operational and safety performance.
We also completed a large volume of work at Davis-Besse to support a steam generator replacement project which began February 1st of 2014.
Our Fossil Fleet also performed well.
And after significant work to ensure the most economic approach to address upcoming environmental requirements we began installation of new emissions equipment at our units.
Earlier this month we received notice that PJM would discontinue the RMR arrangements for our Eastlake and Lake Shore Plants as of September 15 2014 about six months ahead of schedule.
As a result we planned to deactivate those units later this year which would leave us with one remaining RMR agreement for the Ashtabula plant which is a 244 megawatt facility and that agreement will run through April 2015.
We are moving forward with our plans to convert Eastlake's generating units to synchronous condensers that will improve good reliability through voltage regulation.
The Unit 5 synchronizer was installed and became operational in 2013 and we expect to complete the conversion of units 1 through 4 by the summer of 2015.
Leila will provide more insight into our committed sales and other expectations for 2014.
But it is important to recognize that despite the unlevel playing field and competitive capacity in energy markets we continue to be a strong supplier of choice by customers.
Moving now to review our Distribution business.
During 2013 total distribution sales increased by 1%.
We are encouraged by the slight growth in commercial sales of 0.5% on a weather adjusted basis particularly because the commercial sector has not shown any meaningful recovery since the beginning of the recession.
Residential sales were up slightly.
But more importantly we increased our residential customer count across the system.
We now serve more customers than we did in 2007 which was the peak year of economic activity pointing again to a growing customer base.
Another bright spot is sales to industrial customers which were up a healthy 2%.
This was primarily driven by manufacturing segments related to the shale gas in our region as well as a slight pickup in the automotive sector.
We are cautiously optimistic that we are seeing signs of more sustained recover in both the commercial and industrial sectors and that these are indicators of an economic intern that could help drive growth in our utility business.
From a reliability standpoint our utilities had a solid year in 2013 and we continue working to enhance our service to customers particularly during severe weather.
As an example we recently implemented an incident command system to plan and manage our facilities equipment personnel and communications during storm events.
In addition during 2013 we completed our new transmission control center which is designed to make our current high level of transmission service reliability even better.
The control center operates approximately two-thirds of the bulk transmission system and features the R-bulk transmission system and features the industries most advanced monitoring and operations technologies.
Shifting now to our expectations for 2014 and the next few years.
As we have said we have significantly repositioned our business mix and earnings profile by turning our strategic focus to more predictable and sustainable growth through systematic investments in our core regulated businesses.
We are targeting 80% or more of our earnings through regulated operations in 2014 and going forward.
As you know this morning we affirmed our 2014 operating earnings guidance of $2.45 to $2.85 per share including operating earnings guidance range for each of our segments.
We also provided a first quarter operating earnings range of $0.35 to $0.45 per share which includes the planned Davis-Besse extended refueling and steam generator replacement outage that started on February 1st as well as our estimates for the impact of extreme weather.
We intend to set a relatively conservative course over the next few years that is focused on taking advantage of well defined and attainable opportunities.
In our utility business while we anticipate only modest load growth of above 0.6% in 2014 with most of that coming from the industrial sector our service area is soluble positioned to benefit from further development in the Marcellus and Utica shale fields and the manufacturing growth that should accompany that development.
My sense is that when this area success for an attracting a cracker plant it will stimulate and accelerate the manufacturing expansion potential in our service area.
And while economic strength is the most critical engine for distribution growth we also continue to prepare for rate cases that will be filed in West Virginia in April and potential cases in Pennsylvania later this year.
These efforts are expected to produce associated modest earnings growth for our utility companies over time.
In our Transmission business consistent with our announcement late last year we are starting to move forward with the $4.2 billion in capital expenditures through the 2014 to 2017 timeframe.
These investments are expected o support continued system reliability and enhance service to our customers while driving much of our growth over the next several years.
We will initially focus on investments in axing on the 69 KB system and above in Ohio and Pennsylvania and certain other projects in Trioco both of which received formula rate recovery.
With the introduction of this transmission growth program we expect to begin to see an uptick in our result from this business over the next two years followed by a more significant earnings contribution starting in 2016.
Well these planned investments in growth will take some time to fully execute we remain committed to creating value to our significant and diverse asset base.
We appreciate your support.
Now I will turn over to Leila for regulatory and power markets update.
Leila? Thanks Tony.
I will start with an update of the status of several matters in New Jersey Pennsylvania and Ohio before moving to a high level look at FirstEnergy Solutions and developments in our region's power market.
Starting with New Jersey yesterday we signed and filed a settlement agreement with board staff in rate council to permit recovery in base rates of $736 million of JCP&amp;L $744 million of cost related to the significant weather events of 2011 and 2012.
The agreement upon which no other party took a position to oppose or support is now pending approval before the board of public utilities.
Of course we still do have a base rate case pending in New Jersey.
Hearings have concluded and we filed a reply brief rate in this case yesterday.
We expect resolution of the base rate case within the next four months.
Let's turn to Pennsylvania for an update and the transmission service charge rider which relates to the recovery of $254 million in marginal transmission losses and associated carrying costs for the June 2007 through March 2008 period.
As you know we completed the process of refunding Met-Ed and Penelec customers in this case last spring and we recognized an impairment for this item in our third quarter financial statement after the US District Court dismissed our proceeding.
However we continue to believe in the merits of our position and during the fourth quarter we appealed to the third circuit.
Briefs have been filed and oral argument has been scheduled for April 9.
Moving now to Ohio in December the public utilities commission denied our re-hearing request for recovery of $43 million of renewable energy credit purchased to comply with Ohio's renewable energy portfolio standard.
On December 24th we filed the notice of appeal and motion for stay of the PUCL order with the Supreme Court of Ohio.
The court granted our stay on February 10.
I should also note that two additional parties that filed the case the Office of Consumers' Counsel and the Environmental Law and Policy Center.
We expect briefing will occur through the spring but we do not expect an opinion from the court this year.
Ohio's polar auction that took place on January 28 resulted in a clearing price of $55.83 for a one year product and $68.31 for a two year product for the delivery period starting June 2014.
FES own five one-year projects and two two-year projects in this auction.
These results are blended with previous auctions to establish retail generation rates starting June 1 2014 and will affect certain of our retail rate.
Significantly these prices are about $5 and $8 higher than the auction that took place in October and would indicate that bidders are beginning to allow for some additional risk premium.
Respecting our competitive business FirstEnergy Solutions increased its retail base by approximately 100 000 customers during 2013 and now serves about 2.7 million customers.
Going forward we intent to be more selective in our sales strategy in response to market environment and our smaller generating fleet.
In fact on February 12 we completed the previous announced sale of 527 megawatts of competitive hydro assets for approximately $395 million.
We expect our fleet to produce 77 million megawatt-hours and our sales strategy targets 99 million megawatt-hours this year.
Consistent with our glide path we are well hedged with 94 million megawatt-hours currently committed for 2014.
And looking ahead we have booked 52 million megawatt-hours for 2015 and 29 million megawatt-hours for 2016 with a substantial portion of these sales in government aggregation and polar channel.
These sales are on track with a lower end of our glide path and should allow us to take advantage of any increases in market and energy prices that may occur in that time frame.
Now let me take a moment to discuss in more detail the extreme weather in our region over the past months and in January in particular that impacted our competitive retail supply business.
We incurred increased purchase power expense related to higher than forecast customer usage during several extreme weather periods as well as additional energy necessary to replace unit availability.
Beaver Valley Unit 1 was not operating from most of January while we have replaced the main transformer.
We were fortunate to have a spare on plant site.
And we also experience some other unplanned powerful unit outages and delays.
We also expect to see increased PJM charges for ancillary expenses in the first quarter of 2014 the majority of which we expect to recover for retail customers.
These expenses includes synchronous and operating reserves which are necessary for reliability and socialize across the load-serving entities based on load share.
PJM is still accessing the January settlement data and we plan to provide a more detailed update during our first quarter earnings call in early May.
The situation with market power prices in January was a product of base load generation that was stretched to its limit and exasperated by gas units that were impacted by constrain gas transmission and high spot trading prices.
Together with others in our industry we will continue to diligently focus on advocating for reforms that are necessary to assure that the PJM market is in a position to provide reliable power and stable prices to customers.
Now I will turn to call over to Jim.
Thanks Leila.
Let's move right into our financial results.
You may want to refer to the consolidated report which was issued this morning and is available on our website.
As Tony mentioned earlier our fourth quarter operating earnings of $75 per share were at the higher end of our expectations these results compared fourth quarter 2012 operating earnings of $80 per share.
On a GAAP basis this year's unaudited fourth quarter earnings were $34 per share compared to a loss of $35 per share last year.
The full list and special items that make up the $41 per share difference between GAAP and operating earnings can be found on page 4 of the consolidated report.
Most significant of these are a charge of $51 per share related to the transfer of our Harrison and Pleasants plants in West Virginia a $14 per share charge related to plant deactivation cost associated with a closure of fossil units and regulator charges of $12 per share.
These were partially offset by a gain of $38 per share related to our annual pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment which benefited from a higher discount rate.
Other special items for the fourth quarter include trust securities impairment of $0.02 per share non-core assets impairments of $0.02 per share a decrease of $0.02 per share related to merger accounting for commodity contracts and a gain of $0.04 per share for other mark-to-market adjustments.
Let's move now to review of our business results.
In our distribution business higher revenues increased fourth quarter earnings by $0.05 per share as total distribution deliveries increased 4% or 1.4 million megawatt-hours compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
On the Residential and Commercial side the gains during the quarter were largely weather driven with colder winter temperatures driving 3% increases in both residential and commercial sales.
Adjusted for weather residential sales were essentially flat while commercial sales were up slightly.
And as Tony said this continued a positive trend from the third quarter which comes on a yields of a very long period of no commercial growth.
Looking at industrial deliveries sales increased 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 driven again by shale gas activity in the field sector as well as continued growth among our automotive customers.
Reiterating Tony's comments a few minutes ago our outlook for low growth remains cautious but these are bright signs relative to what we have seen in the year since the recession began.
To provide more transparency in our distribution business and as a result of the Harrison plant asset transfer in the fourth quarter we are providing operating margin at our regulated generation business which increased earnings by $0.02 per share in the fourth quarter.
Moving to commodity margin and our competitive business.
Commodity margin decreased earnings by $0.09 per share compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 and total competitive generation output decreased by 3.3 million megawatt-hours in the quarter.
Fuel expense was lower in the quarter helping to offset the higher purchase power cost that result from the Hatfield and the Mitchell plant closures the Harrison transfer and increased contract sales.
Contract sales increased 2.3 million megawatt-hours compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Looking at each of our channels structured sales nearly doubled compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 due to higher municipal cooperative and bilateral sales.
Governmental aggregation sales increased 10% largely reflecting further expansion into Illinois where we have side 108 new communities since the fourth quarter of last year.
Marketing campaigns in Pennsylvania Ohio and Illinois resulted in a 27% increase in mass market sales.
Direct sales to large and medium size commercial and industrial customers increased 2% reflecting service to more customers in Central and Southern Ohio.
Other drivers of commodity margin include higher capacity revenues increased capacity expense in transmission cost and lower wholesale sales.
Looking at the other drivers of fourth quarter results higher O&amp;M expense decreased earnings by $0.06 per share.
This primarily reflects more normal operations expense in 2013 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 during which much of our workforce was involved in storm recovery activities.
Finally lower interest expense impacted results by $0.01 per share and investment income increased earnings by $0.02 per share mostly from higher nuclear decommissioning trust income and higher earnings from our investment in Signal Peak.
As Tony mentioned in his open remarks one of our key achievements in 2013 was strengthening the credit metrics and balance sheets of our operating companies.
We achieved this through the successful execution of the financial plan that we outlined early in the year.
I will take a moment to walk you through the highlights of these activities.
We issued $1.5 billion in FE Corp long term notes at a very attractive interest rate.
We significantly improve credit metrics at our competitive business through a $1.5 billion equity infusion from FirstEnergy Corp combined with $1.5 billion in debt reduction and FES and allocating energy supply.
And we extended the maturity of our existing credit facilities to May 2018 and increased the First Energy utilities facility by $500 million and we also strengthened the balance sheets of our utilities through our efforts to refinance debt reduce short term borrowings and through securitization in Ohio.
Through this series of actions we successfully improved the balance sheet of both our competitive and regulated businesses and enhanced consolidated liquidity.
We remain committed to investment grade credit metrics at each of our businesses.
Beginning in 2014 we are entering a capital intensive period with expenditures estimated at $3.3 billion this year primarily due to the increased transmission investments.
Over the next several years we intend to fund the transmission expansion program through a combination of debt previously announced equity issuances through the stock investment and employee benefit plans and cash.
And while we expect our competitive operations to be cash flow positive we intend to minimize other investments in our competitive business during this period with a notable exception as a planned work to extend the life of our nuclear units and environmental compliance in our fossil units.
We will continue to look for opportunities to further reduce our costs while preserving the flexibility to create and take advantage of opportunities to move forward with more predictable and stable growth.
Now I will ask the operator to open the line to your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
First I just wanted to clarify your comments on the first quarter guidance if you could.
Could you provide a little bit more clarity in terms of how much of the year-on-year impact is from the outages and perhaps also how much is impacted from the latest weather if you will versus plan when you release '14 guidance? Julien in the main I mean as you look through the year you got to remember that in part the first quarter would not have only affected by the Davis-Besse outage which is scheduled for basically all of February and all of March; losing Beaver Valley was also impacting that January timeframe.
So the first quarter is going to be impacted by that probably more than we would have expected but about in the same range as where we were originally anticipating.
As you think about the year however the growth in earnings from the segment were rising as time went on.
For example the capacity revenue in the first quarter of this year is about $27 a megawatt a day or whatever that is.
Starting in June it goes to $126 per megawatt a day.
So there is a very large impact on capacity revenues quarter to quarter as you move through this timeframe.
Also when we talk about the annual guidance over the year need to think about the transmission investments that we are making in the earnings that arise from the -- when you start those expenditures in January they grow over time.
And as they are placed in service in the later part of the year those earnings tend to be more tail end loaded than front end loaded in this overall timeframe.
So while the first quarter with expectations are probably little lower than what people would have thought normally just by dividing by four they're not too far off of what we would have otherwise expected.
And so perhaps just to summarize how do you think about your net exposure ultimately to the latest volatility on pricing? Was it net benefit or net reduction I mean sort of excluding the impact of the Beaver Valley outage? Julien we are going to go through all this stuff when we get to the first quarter timeframe.
We are only through one month of the first quarter.
But obviously when you have the type of weather we had we had more sales on both the competitor side and the utility side in January than we otherwise would have anticipated.
And obviously with the extension of the Beaver Valley outage part of which we have already talked about earlier I think this year towards the end of last -- earlier this year that had an impact.
And clearly there the prices were somewhat higher than we would otherwise anticipated and we are also seeing some PJM costs that are a little higher than we would have anticipated but we don’t have the final bills on all of those things yet.
So I think at this point that the best way to look at it is that from a company perspective guidance range is the same and segment ranges are the same.
So how they shake out during the year and the actions we will take offsetting one way or the other will take place naturally as it always does during a year when you are dealing with multiple issues.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Please proceed with your question.
Pickering and Holt</strong> Hi good morning I just had another question on maybe the retail exposure.
When you look at super peak periods do you typically used the FE fleet with peakers to serve that demand or do you usually go out into the spot market to procure some of that but I know that you are fleet is more heavily weighted towards the base load than the peaking generation.
So just wanted to know how you handle that going forward? Neel this is Donny.
We rely heavily on our fleet as you know but we also utilize call options and purchase power as need be.
If the fleets running flat out the way per design we are pretty well hedged; we don’t have to rely much on the spot market.
Pickering and Holt</strong> Okay.
So I'm trying to understand this just a little bit better.
Is the exposure that you incurred in Q1 as a result of some of your base load plants being out on an unplanned outage and you being forced buy power or was it from kind of the spot power that you would buy from the peaking transaction side of it? Yes I think as Leila and Tony both said obviously we at the Beaver Valley outage that was almost the entire month.
In addition to that while in aggregate for the month our fissile fleet ran pretty well we did have some outages at our Mansfield plant that occurred in inopportune times specifically when there was a very coldest weather and the prices were the very highest.
So having to buy to replace for those outages was expensive.
Pickering and Holt</strong>  Got it.
And then Leila  Neel so we are still looking in that but I would imagine when we file we would file the cases that we are going to file this year at one point in time.
But as to the particular utilities I am not prepared to say right now.
Obviously we would want to talk to folks in Pennsylvania and tee that up before announcing that publicly.
Pickering and Holt</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good afternoon.
I guess we may -- we try to understand that the guidance question maybe little better so I apologize for repeating this to death.
But if you assume normal weather for the three quarters of the year as you would have light up the plan when you guy revised it for the year where would you guys fallout within the $2.45 to $2.85 range?  Dan I think if I understand your question you are trying to find out where we would fall between the two goalposts $2.45 to $2.85?  Right.
I think we are at -- and as way I see it right now although we had some extreme weather and had some higher cost there is other items that we have identified that would help offset that.
Take -- one example would be the higher prices than we originally expected would happen in the Ohio auction.
So I am pretty comfortable that we are still right in the same range that we talked about on the last call.
Okay.
So you are comfortable in the middle of the range so this is -- the first quarter variants was within your plan? Yeah I am still comfortable that we are at the same place within our range yes.
Okay.
And then I guess on a New Jersey the -- can you just give me that data once going on with the CTA and you are kind of where that JCP and all rate case gets done with that issue still outstanding?  Okay.
So a lot of moving pieces and parts in Jersey.
So with the settlement of the storm case we roughly -- with respect to the $7.5 million that roughly makeover $1.5 million in revenue requirement.
So while the settlement deals with the prudence if you will of those dollars what it does not settle is whether the 2012 storm dollars are going to go back into the rate case.
If you recall the BPU had indicated that 2011 storm cost would go back.
And so roughly according to our approach and how you would look at the storm cost roughly -- the revenue requirement roughly $23 million would go back into the base rate case.
And we are now briefing as to whether the 2012 storm cost should go back in.
But if you think about the commission's or the BPU's original order establishing the test year they established the 2000 test year but also included any out of period measurable changes that were shown to be prudent were major in nature in consequence and that were quantified though proof and had reliable data.
I think the 2012 storm cost fit all those categories so I think we have a very good argument to pull those strong cost back into the base rate case.
Where we stand with respect to that with five briefs have been filed.
ALJ has 45 days to issue their decision his decision and there is no extension reply exceptions are generated around 30 days and the BPU may be another 30 or 60 days.
With respect to the CTA I would have love to have position paper by the staff.
Unfortunately that did not come out prior to the briefs in the rate case and staff took a position that was consistent with the BPUs order which said that until we have an ultimate decision in the CTA generic proceeding we were going to continue with what their prior position had been.
So that essentially was they were negative with respect to us and the CTA.
So will I still would like to see an order coming out of the commission with respect to the generic proceeding in the CTA it is definitely on a slower path than I would have anticipated.
I mean is there a chance that CTA you can get done before the case gets done and if it is not getting done is there a way to just slow down your case and hopes it does get resolved because it is not an inconsequential issue?  You are correct.
It is not an inconsequential issue it is roughly $56 million in revenue requirement and roughly would negate about a quarter of the rate base.
So just looking at it from that perspective shows the gross and fairness of applying a CTA adjustment in this case.
I would hope that BPU would look at that.
The fact that JCP already has the lowest rate in the state of New Jersey which again further exasperates the consequence of that.
But right now we need the staff to issue an order and I have not seen a timeline for that to happen.
Ultimately if the BPU should be issue an order and should be negative in terms of not providing further the CTA in appropriate manner our option would be file another rate case.
And by that time the decision on the next case I believe we should have a resolution of the generic case.
Great.
Thank you for that.
Our next question comes from a line of Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a quick financial.
First on the competitive segment the interest expense around $35 million the full capitalization in fourth quarter is that a reasonable run rate going forward or is there something else going in there? Have we kind of found the new level with the all the repositioning of the balance sheet? Yes I think it would generally be slightly higher than that Jonathan.
You might recall we called in one pollution control note that was about $230 some million and we had a about $10 million favorable interest that Dutchman associated it with that.
In 4Q and specifically in competitive?  Yes that generally grow the $0.01 improvement in earnings that I talked about.
There is a number from third quarter probably a better level? Yes I would say that is correct Jonathan.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And then I missed the number you had on the hedging for 2015 would you mind repeating that? I apologize.
I think I got 94 in '14 and 29 in 16.
That was in years later was it?  56? Yes we have 52 million megawatt-hours in 2015 Jonathan.
Okay.
And is this as of right now or is that as of end of the year?  That is current right now.
Okay.
And so you talked about being at the lower end of the glide path and to be positioning yourselves to take advantage of moves.
We have seen some moves particularly in the winter pricing in '15 and to an extent in '16.
Can you tall at all about kind of what you have how you -- what you have been hedging? Are you kind of locking in any about seasonality or just generally trying to stay as open as you can given the increased volatility we've seen in the market?   Jonathan this is Donny.
We have not really tried to position it for seasonality up to this point.
Generally what happens is the customers are going to buy to lineup with the planning here so to speak.
So it is not unusual for a customer to want to buy June through May or perhaps though by on a calendar year but to this point we have not seen much customer demand for kind of a seasonal -- not say we won't be looking at that but at this point we have not have that opportunity.
Great.
Thank you very much guys.
Our next question comes from line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Steve.
Hi Tony.
I guess this question might be for Leila.
I think you mention the PJM ancillary cost that some of those get pass through the customers?  Yes.
Is that just in certain states or how does that work? How do we know which areas get pass through or not? It is pursuant to contract in a specific language within the contract so it is not a state by state kind of thing Steve.
Okay.
So it is certain types of your customer classes?   In? In a retail business? It is not even the same throughout particular classes.
Okay.
It is as that contract language was developed for that particular customer or grouping of customer.
So there is no way I can even give it to you by segment.
Okay.
So some of the cause when you get this data come up will be cause that you absorb but some of those would be available to essentially pass through your contracts to the customers? Correct.
And in the future do most of your contracts have that clause so new ones do or not older ones or vice versa?  I think it would be safe to say that we are going to be adding that language where we can in the future.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Just want to clarify that.
Okay.
Our next question comes from line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to just explore retail margins in the out years and just given the kind of volatility that we are seeing I think on some of your prepared remarks you talked briefly that maybe recognition of greater volatility being reflected in markets.
But just curious if you could talk at a high level to given the kind of volatility you are seeing? Is that impacting how you see the margin potential on the retail side events? Yes Steven this is Donny.
I think especially if you look at like the Ohio polar auction and you can see that those prices are up substantially I think that's reflective of the volatility.
Obviously as we move forward and price new contracts on the retail side we will begin the higher volatility so they will naturally drive the margins up if you will.
Okay.
Understood and just relating to that volatility topic given the kind of volatility we have seen is that caused you to think further about through the right size or role of the retail position in terms of the target gigawatt hours or you sort of comfortable where you are? Steven I think you are always looking at where your right level of sales are and in part it's driven by what the market provides or delivers to you.
If customers are willing to pay the risk premium associated with carrying the volatility in the market then I suspect you will see retail sales at certain levels if customers are not anticipating paying that but I would expect it would be a just to (inaudible) because the cost don't go away from a volatility stand point.
And some point the market is going to have to period.
And at the end it's going to be whether or not it is going to be from a customer stand point or ultimately at that point whether or not a retail market for customers exists in the same format that we see it today.
We are already seeing the impact of variable pricing on not only industrial customer for residential and commercial customers that have chosen that path whether or not they stay in that environment over a long period of time is if volatility continues to be a issue in the market and my own sense is that perhaps it will given the structure of it we could see some very different forms of retail contracts.
Can you just speak Tony maybe a little further to those different forms of retail contracts that you are (inaudible)? Well like Donny said there could be more adjustment clauses in them there could be more risk add it to fix contractor.
There is a whole series of things that could be put in place to try to mitigate or address those types of differing issues.
Steven this is (inaudible).
The list that Tony just gave one of the things that you clearly look at is tolerance bands.
What we are seeing today in the marketplace any customer that had decided to go to an hourly kind of product they are already calling us and wanting something different because they were obviously hit high prices in the month of January.
I see and so some of your customers are seeking that reduce that risk we'll just have to see the degree to which they are willing to paid to get that risk protection.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Just quickly following up on Steve's question with respect to the ancillary service cost you guys mentioned that there was still some settlement and settlement billing that had to be coming out of PJM and we're going to January and February and obviously I guess March coming up but any sense that we might see in terms of if there is any variation with this or any quantitative numbers that we might be talking about that some range in terms of exposure here or? I can tell you with respect to kind of global PJM and ancillary resources and again these are parsed out on load ratio share.
Just kind of order of magnitude for ancillary services the billing throughout PJM for January 2014 equaled the charge for ancillary services for all of 2013.
Which is how much? Roughly speaking not putting on the spot if you don't have it that's okay.
I just -- $800 million.
I'm sorry could you repeat that? $800 million.
$800 million? That's PJM total Paul.
No I got you.
Okay.
But you guys do with your contracting and everything and you are hedging that you guys have been able to really mitigate the exposure to this stuff correct? I mean if I understood you guys correctly right? It's all in guidance other words.
We are working through that process right now on a contract by contract basis and we work with PJM to make sure that the buildings that also got (inaudible) charge to us are appropriate.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just finally on the Ohio alternative energy monitor that $40 million is there any ongoing exposure other than that which you guys are fighting which you guys are going to court on? Is there any other exposure going forward that we should think about with respect to that at all? No I don't believe so.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Please proceed with you question.
On Davis-Besse I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the scope of the work around the unplanned concrete fixtures during the current outage and kind of the level of correspondence that's required with the MRC? I will try to give you as much as I can.
Gregg.
Don't hold me as being the expert on this at this point.
I have briefed a couple of times but we will go through the process we believe that what we found is that structurally significant to the overall shields integrity.
And it is fixable in the upcoming when we actually close the opening.
It primarily resulted if I understand it correctly primarily resulted because this was a -- it was left in a more temporary position with framing still in place on the back side because we knew we're going to cut it again in a year.
What happened is that it didn't completely settle into all areas and so there were some gaps.
We think it's fixable fairly straightforward inside the scope of the timeframe of this outage.
Thank you.
Operator Christine we will take one more question.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Paul Freemont with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Just point a clarification on the JCPL case is if the 12 costs are not included in the GRC would they be included in whatever the NJBPU decision is in the generic proceeding or would you have to wait for a whole new rate case to include those costs? The answer is unknown.
The BPU left open the possibility of another mechanism for recovery unspecified in nature.
So obviously we would prefer something that gives us more immediate recovery even if it's not included within the current base rate case that's in front of the BPU right now but as kind of an outside bookings to think about if they weren't included if things didn't go on our way we would be filing another rate case basically on the heels of this decision and we would get those costs included in that case.
Okay.
And the second question is of the $736 million of costs that you identified how much of that would essentially represent an increase in the rate base of the company? The $736 million is all (inaudible) represent it is all rate base.
But I guess some of it is going to be the recovering (inaudible) I'm sorry -- Let us give that number for you.
I think the rate base numbers in the $400 million range -- Its $407 million in capital and $329 million in deferred.
You got that? Sorry about that.
Okay.
Okay.
So essentially it's $407 million of increased rate base? Yes that would be the capital fees.
That's right Paul.
Okay.
And you would be able to earn a full return equity or full weighted average cost to capital return on that $407 million right? We should yes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Paul.
I like to thank everybody for joining us today.
We appreciate your continued support and we remain committed to providing long time value and sustainable growth.
Bye now.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director Investor Relations for FirstEnergy.
Ms.
Beringer you may begin.
Thank you Brenda and good afternoon.
Welcome to FirstEnergy's First Quarter Earnings Call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Information link.
Today we will be referring to operating earnings both on a consolidated and segment basis which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to GAAP earnings from operating earnings are contained in the consolidated report as well as on the investor information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today's call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thank you Meghan and good afternoon everyone.
I'll start today's call with a look at our first quarter results then I will discuss some of the recent developments in each of our businesses and I'll finish with an update on our full year outlook.
Leila will provide a more in-depth review of our competitive business as well as an update on regulatory activity.
And Jim will present more details on our first quarter financial results.
Okay let's get started.
This morning we announced first quarter 2014 operating earnings of $0.39 per share in line with the range we provided on our year-end call in February.
Even though the extremely challenging weather continued throughout the quarter for our competitive business we had good results overall in both our distribution and transmission businesses.
In fact our distribution business not only delivered strong performance during the quarter but even more important we continued to see positive trends in both residential and commercial sales as well as growth in the industrial sector.
Adjusting for the impact of weather total distribution sales increased 2% compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This includes an increase of nearly 3% on a weather-adjusted basis in the commercial sector.
We are obviously pleased to see consecutive quarters of sales growth in the commercial sector.
Weather-adjusted residential deliveries increased more than 2% compared to the first quarter of 2013 and we saw modest growth in our customer count continuing the positive trend we noted during the fourth quarter.
Sales to industrial customers increased about 1% compared to the first quarter of 2013 driven by manufacturing segments related to shale gas in our region as well as continued steady growth from the automotive sector.
We also welcomed the announcement in March of a planned ethanol cracker plant in our Mon Power service territory.
While this project is still in its early stages the land has been purchased and we remain optimistic that our region is prime for a cracker plant.
This development would be a tremendous boost to not only the shale gas industry in our region but related manufacturing sectors across our service areas.
Our first quarter distribution results together with the growing momentum in the shale gas industry sustained our cautious optimism that a more substantial recovery is on the horizon for both the commercial and industrial sectors.
We are on track to meet or exceed our growth forecast for all 3 sectors this year.
On the regulatory front we filed our rate case in West Virginia last week and we expect to file an ESP in Ohio and rate cases in Pennsylvania -- in our Pennsylvania service areas later this year.
We are also looking forward to resolution of our New Jersey storm recovery and base rate cases.
Leila will provide more details on each of these cases later today.
Finally in our transmission business we are moving forward with our planned investments to support continued service system reliability and enhance service to our customers.
Projects underway include construction of our 100-mile transmission line from our Bruce Mansfield Plant to a new substation in the Cleveland area.
This project is being constructed primarily to support the generation deactivations in the ATSI footprint.
In addition we are well underway on many of the smaller projects that are part of our transmission improvement program.
While we did lose some physical construction time this winter due to the weather we still expect to meet our targets for the year.
Now turning to our competitive operations.
While Leila and Jim will provide more detail about the specific impact the extreme winter weather and more importantly market conditions had on our competitive business I'll take a moment to discuss what this winter's instability says about the state of our region's electric infrastructure.
As you know the regional grid was under severe stress during the polar vortex in early January and other frigid weather events in the remainder of the quarter.
The combination of several factors including high customer demand forced outages and plant unavailability in particular those driven by gas shortages illuminated the fact that current energy priorities are putting the reliability of our electric system in jeopardy and creating a far more volatile energy price and service environment for customers.
This is of particular importance in competitive states where customer service and pricing are very much dependent if not solely dependent on stable and predictable wholesale markets.
As you may know we've shared this view in our testimony at FERC in comments to business leaders and legislators and in media and we will continue to advocate for regulatory changes that can ensure generating resources are valued at a level that reflects their contribution to grid reliability.
While some modest reforms dealing with overreliance on imports and demand response have been approved by the FERC for the upcoming PJM capacity auction in May we believe momentum is growing for changes that can truly help maintain the reliability service quality and price stability that have long been enjoyed from our electric system.
Even so we are evaluating our target level of retail sales including the markets and channels in which we concentrate our efforts and our hedge position given the significant volatility now within the wholesale energy markets the ever-changing market rules and as we approach mid-2015 and beyond the anticipated shutdowns of generation within the market.
It has always been a part of our overall strategy to maximize the performance of our competitive business.
As we evaluate and refine our targets in light of current market conditions we are in a good position since we only have about 55% of our generation committed for the 2015 2016 PJM planning year and about 33% committed for the 2016 2017 planning year.
This gives us substantial flexibility as we consider how best to position our competitive business going forward.
With respect to our plant performance during the quarter even though our overall fleet performed better than expected -- in fact we delivered more capacity to PJM than our units were committed to deliver or were being paid for -- we had several nuclear and fossil outages and derates that occurred during the most volatile pricing periods.
And as Leila will explain these outages given the high prices for energy during those periods had a significant impact on our results.
During the quarter we also successfully replaced the Unit 1 main transformer during the forced outage at Beaver Valley plant in January and commenced the Davis-Besse steam generator replacement project during a planned refueling outage.
Davis-Besse is now in the startup process but the outage took 15-or-so days longer than expected which we estimate will result in about a $0.02 impact for the second quarter.
In April we also began the scheduled refueling outage at Beaver Valley Unit 2.
The outage is on track and we expect that unit back online during May.
We have no other refueling outages scheduled this year.
This morning we revised our 2014 operating earnings guidance to $2.40 to $2.60 per share.
It was a tough quarter for our competitive operations given the market dynamics in PJM and we have adjusted the earnings range at that segment to reflect the quarter's results and expectations for the remainder of the year.
Our corporate segment and regulated utilities are expected to come in better than our original estimates and our transmission segment is roughly in line with original expectations.
While this is a very difficult quarter we continue to believe that our distribution transmission and competitive businesses provide a solid platform to deliver value to our investors and we appreciate your support.
Now I'll turn this over to Leila for a regulatory and power markets update.
Thanks Tony.
Given the significance of the extreme weather and market conditions on our competitive business I will begin with a discussion of the first quarter impact and then move to a regulatory update.
First extreme weather conditions resulted in customer usage that was about 6% higher than normal during the first quarter.
We typically hedge for normal weather leaving open a small portion of our expected customer load as we enter each month.
Increased sales are covered through market purchases from our peaking generation or a combination of both.
This quarter higher market purchases reflecting weather and to a lesser extent our small open position of less than 3% decreased earnings by $0.10 per share net of increased sales revenues.
Higher prices exasperated the earnings impact of our power purchases.
Average prices during the first quarter 2014 were nearly $68 per megawatt-hour or double the 3-year average of about $34 per megawatt-hour.
More importantly however prices during the most volatile days the 10 highest-priced days during the quarter where the average around-the-clock day-ahead price at 80 Hub was between $150 and $500 per megawatt-hour were what really impacted the quarter's results at our competitive segment.
All 10 of these volatile days coincided with untimely outages at some of our units including Beaver Valley and Mansfield.
And we couldn't procure natural gas for our West Lorain peaking plant which would have helped offset some of that impact.
The combination of these events net of fuel costs and better-than-expected generation at other units resulted in increased power purchase expense of $0.23 per share.
The impact of the 10 days was $0.13 of the $0.23.
Ancillary expenses from PJM were also up significantly as a result of January charges that were about 10x higher than normal and that exceeded the charges for the entire calendar year 2013.
While we anticipated significant ancillary charges when we spoke to you in February PJM added a March true-up bill of roughly $0.02 per share reflecting their decision to socialize these costs across the entire region.
Our total share of these expenses amounted to $0.10 per share while the net effect on earnings was $0.05 per share reflecting a passthrough of some of these costs to industrial and commercial customers as well as our decision not to seek reimbursement for about $0.02 in expenses from residential customers.
Looking at other drivers.
Higher capacity prices drove a $0.07 per share increase in capacity expense.
And finally the deactivation of Hatfield and Mitchell along with the transfer of Harrison and the hydro unit improved earnings $0.04 per share taking into consideration lower fuel operation depreciation and interest expense and increased purchase power to replace that generation.
As Tony said we continue our work to encourage consistent and reasonable market rules that help rather than hinder competitive markets and we are committed to advocating for change in rules policies and practices that better support reliability and overall market development.
At the same time we are working for change we are also taking several steps to refine our internal practices to adapt to the evolving market dynamics.
First we are taking a far more conservative approach in competitive markets in light of our current condition.
We have increased the risk premium that is built into our retail sales price which should naturally adjust our glide path strategy to produce a slightly more open position.
We currently have 56 million megawatt-hours of committed sales in 2015 and 32 million megawatt-hours committed in 2016.
Next we have taken deliberate action to essentially close the small unhedged portion that we typically leave open going into each month and that is in place for the remainder of the year.
As we move into the summer months we have taken additional actions to layer in further hedges that supplement our position for retail load.
Our peaking units are also available for additional support in the event of an extremely hot summer and more volatile prices.
Finally we have purchased additional outage insurance something that we haven't felt necessary for about 15 years to mitigate the impact of volatile prices during the summer.
Our results this quarter were affected by a mix of untimely outages and extreme market conditions.
We believe that the actions we have already implemented as well as other conservative measures for the longer term will help to mitigate the impact of similar market condition should they occur in the future.
Moving now to a review of state regulatory matters.
In New Jersey following the BPU's approval of storm cost stipulation and the return of the 2011 storm costs to the base rate case the parties were directed to advise ALJ whether additional information is needed before the record is closed.
We anticipate a decision in the rate case proceeding later this year.
Also in New Jersey the manner of recovery of the 2012 storm cost remains pending before the BPU.
Turning to West Virginia.
Before I talk about our recently filed rate case I want to briefly mention that on April 23 the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia entered an opinion affirming the West Virginia Public Service Commission's order from last October approving the generation asset transfer dealing with the Harrison and Pleasants generating station.
As you may recall we closed this transaction in October after receiving approval from the West Virginia PSC.
Now respecting the West Virginia rate case last week our Mon Power and Potomac Edison subsidiaries jointly submitted a request to the Public Service Commission of West Virginia for a base rate increase of approximately $96 million or 9.3% and an allowed ROE of 11%.
In addition the plan includes the request to recover the cost of a new right-of-way vegetation maintenance program through a surcharge.
Recently the West Virginia PSC approved the company's vegetation management plan filed last year but postponed consideration of the method of cost recovery to the rate case.
In the meantime as authorized by the PSC the companies are implementing the plan and deferring the cost with a 4% annual carry charge.
If the requested surcharge is not approved in the rate case these costs would be incorporated into the company's base rate request.
The requested rates are subject to review and approval by the PSC.
We expect the case to conclude by the end of February 2015 With respect to our plans to file base rate cases in Pennsylvania we are concluding our analysis and expect to file later this year.
And finally in Pennsylvania on March 6 the PUC issued an order approving our original smart meter deployment plan.
On March 19 the company has filed an updated plan consistent with that order that would allow for the entire Penn Power smart meter system 170 000 meters to be built by the end of 2015 instead of the originally proposed installation of 60 000 meters by the end of 2016.
A procedural schedule including a hearing tomorrow has been established to allow the Pennsylvania PUC to consider the plan by early June.
We expect installation to begin this summer.
In Ohio the PUCO completed its retail market investigation on March 26 by issuing an order that addresses issues ranging from maintaining SSO service in its current form to requiring corporate separation audits of all electric distribution utilities.
Also in Ohio we expect to file an electric security plan or ESP before year end.
As you know the current ESP runs through May of 2016 but we need to get started on the process in order to meet the time required to effectively implement a new plant.
We expect that most of the main aspects of the filing will be similar including the continuation of periodic auctions to procure generation for non-shopping customers as well as the delivery capital recovery rider which has served us well in terms of providing a mechanism to recover our ongoing investments in reliability at our Ohio utilities.
We are also considering given the substantial changes in market conditions whether we should propose an option designed to provide our Ohio customers with more generation price stability and reduced exposure to market volatility.
We're still in the early stages of this and a lot -- and obviously a lot of thought and discussion with our Ohio colleagues is still to come.
It may prove however to be an effective way and perhaps the only way for Ohio regulators to address the volatility in the market and assure stable prices and adequate supplies for Ohio customers.
With that I'll hand it off to Jim.
Thanks Leila.
As I discuss our financial results you may want to refer to the consolidated report which was issued this morning and is available on our website.
You'll notice that we have redesigned the consolidated report to provide even greater transparency into the performance of our 3 business units: regulated distribution regulated transmission and competitive energy services.
As Tony mentioned earlier our first quarter operating earnings of $0.39 per share were within our expectations.
These results compare to first quarter 2013 operating earnings of $0.76 per share.
On a GAAP basis first quarter earnings were $0.50 per share this year compared to $0.47 per share in the first quarter of 2013.
A list of special items that make up the difference between GAAP and operating earnings can be found on Page 2 of the consolidated report.
The largest of the special items in the first quarter was an $0.18 per share gain primarily related to the sale of our hydro units.
We also recorded a gain of $0.03 per share related to mark-to-market adjustments.
These gains were partially offset by plant deactivation costs of $0.05 per share associated with the closure of our fossil units a decrease of $0.02 per share related to merger accounting for commodity contracts regulatory charges of $0.02 per share and a loss on debt redemptions of $0.01 per share.
Now let's turn to a review of the key drivers in each of our business segments.
I'll begin with our distribution business with operating earnings of $0.53 per share or an increase of $0.01 per share compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Distribution deliveries added $0.09 per share compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Heating degree-days were about 17% higher than 2013 and 19% above normal driving a 6% or 2.3 million megawatt-hour increase in deliveries compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Looking at the mix of sales deliveries to residential customers were up 11% while commercial sales increased 6%.
And as Tony mentioned earlier when we adjust for the impact of weather commercial deliveries were up nearly 3% while residential sales increased about 2%.
Deliveries to industrial customers were 1% higher than the first quarter of 2013.
Looking back at the past 12 months.
On a weather-adjusted basis we are seeing about a 1% growth in both the residential and commercial sectors and a 2% increase in industrial deliveries.
The growth appears to be somewhat steady.
And to reiterate Tony's point we are in pace to achieve the expected load growth across all 3 sectors of our customer segments this year.
With respect to other drivers in our distribution business the impact of the West Virginia asset transfer primarily reflecting the return on the Harrison Plant increased earnings by $0.01 per share in the first quarter.
The weather contributed to higher operating expenses of $0.06 per share during the quarter.
This primarily reflects less capital work completed as a result of the extreme weather conditions and storm-related restoration costs net of deferrals during the quarter.
Finally distribution earnings decreased by $0.03 per share as a result of higher depreciation and interest expense.
Moving to our transmission business.
Operating earnings were $0.12 per share or flat compared to the first quarter of 2013 as higher transmission revenues were offset by operating expense and taxes with most of the higher operating expense due to a greater focus on maintenance activities this quarter.
In our competitive business operating earnings were $0.40 per share below first quarter 2013 results.
This was driven by the decrease in commodity margin that resulted from the extreme weather market conditions and outages that we experienced during the quarter as Leila described.
Total generating output decreased 4.9 million megawatt-hours primarily reflecting our 2013 plant deactivations the Harrison and Pleasants asset transfer and planned and unplanned outages.
Total contract sales increased 1.3 million megawatt-hours compared to the first quarter of 2013.
The total number of retail customers remained flat at 2.7 million but the channel mix is shifting consistent with our strategy to target higher-margin sales opportunities.
Specifically direct sales to the large and medium-sized commercial and industrial customers decreased 6% as a result of our strategy to be more selective in light of current market conditions.
This decrease was offset in the first quarter by sales in other channels.
Structured sales increased 42% compared to the first quarter of 2013 as a result of more municipal cooperative and bilateral sales partially offset by lower unit prices due to extreme weather and market conditions that reduced the gains on various structured financial sales.
Governmental aggregation sales increased 7% and POLR sales increased 8% both reflecting higher weather-related usage.
And mass market sales were 19% higher reflecting the acquisition of new customers primarily in Pennsylvania and Ohio as well as weather-related usage.
The impact of the extreme weather and market events on commodity margin was offset somewhat by lower operating expenses primarily related to the plant deactivations and the asset transfer and lower interest expense due to long-term debt repurchases.
Finally I'll take a moment to review financing options that we have completed so far this year.
We extended our 3 existing multiyear revolving credit facilities until March of 2019.
As part of this transaction we increased the FirstEnergy and utility facility by $1 billion we decreased the FES and Allegheny supply facility by $1 billion and amended the transmission facility to allow greater borrowing at our ATSI and TrAIL subsidiaries.
We executed and fully utilized a new $1 billion variable-rate term loan credit agreement with a maturity date of March 2019.
Borrowings under this term loan improved our liquidity as we used proceeds to refinance a like amount of borrowings under FE Corp.'s revolving credit facility.
We completed the remarketing of 3 tax-exempt issues totaling $417 million in March at an average coupon of 3.86% and we received FERC authorization to issue up to $850 million in long-term debt for TrAIL.
While the first quarter presented some unusual challenges with regard to the extreme weather and market conditions we were pleased overall with the strength of our businesses and our regulated strategy and we'll continue to focus on our core businesses with a commitment to operational excellence financial discipline and predictable and sustainable growth opportunities.
Now I'll open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can we just talk a little bit about kind of retail thought process? I mean it seems like there's a little bit of a reevaluation of kind of sizing and strategy there.
Given the first quarter results what's going to cause you guys maybe to reconsider how much of a short position you create in the retail business? And based on your contractual commitments where would you look to maybe reduce your exposure if you're going to maybe more balance that business? Dan let me start with kind of a broad-based overview.
When you think about our retail strategy we've always indicated that it is primarily an asset-backed strategy.
And we have used -- and we've increased sales to a certain extent probably in the 20% to 25% range based on sourcing from the overall market.
We've been comfortable in that range for a number of years now because the markets have been fairly stable.
What we're seeing today however and what we experienced this winter perhaps is a precursor of what we might be looking at down the road as additional generation is taken offline as a result of environmental requirements increasing forced outage rates as a result of -- essentially as a result of depressed overall capacity markets.
And quite frankly as we rely more on natural gas to fill the capacity void the increased volatility that creates inside the energy markets electric energy markets because of the volatility associated with natural gas.
And I think all of those are looking -- all of those are leading us to refine our strategy to see exactly where these targets ought to be given what we're seeing now as perhaps something that is going to be more of a long-term event in the energy markets in particular.
So not unlike where we started the process what level of retail sales are -- can be supported by our generation what is the appropriate level of retail sales to source in the market if any and where that mix is will depend much on what happens in retail markets to reflect the risk premiums that will need to be reflected as wholesale markets have far more volatile energy prices in them.
And we're going to take that all into consideration.
Right now I feel pretty good about where we're at because the positions we have going forward quite frankly where we're at right now we're more than 100% hedged with our own generation.
So it becomes a function of what markets will provide the best opportunities for the competitive business going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess if you look at guidance for this year the update to the CES contribution came down quite a bit even though you guys hit the midpoint of the range for the first quarter in aggregate.
What's bringing down the next 3 quarters of CES probably relative to plan? And then what is the cost or the ongoing cost of maybe the new hedging or insurance strategies you're using this year to help protect yourselves? Dan this is Jim.
I'll take a shot at that and then if Leila and Donny want to add any more cover I'll hand -- color I'll hand that off to them.
Yes we hit the midrange of our guidance for this quarter but several things happened since we gave that guidance Dan.
First off during the quarter we did experience better results in our regulated distribution business than what we had expected.
We knew that we were going to have higher expenses in the first quarter associated with maintenance expenses but our revenues were somewhat better than what we expected.
And then on the corporate side we also experienced some benefits against some taxes to a couple of cents.
What happened since the call on the competitive side we decided that we were not going to bill several cents of the ancillary services.
In addition PJM reallocated some of their expenses from January and that impacted us by about $0.02.
And then March was rather challenging as we experienced some fairly cold weather and some extreme wholesale market prices on that side of the house.
So with that we had a decrease somewhat in the competitive side.
It was offset though by the corporate and the regulated distribution side.
Looking past the first quarter Dan we had some additional expenditures that impacted us.
First the Davis-Besse outage that Tony talked about earlier it impacted us by a couple of cents.
And then we also went out and we bought some additional outage insurance and we closed all of the remaining positions that were opened for the remainder of the year.
So when you take all of that together that is what drove the midpoint of the competitive energy services from $0.42 to $0.17.
Research Division</strong> And so Jim when you guys look at next year and beyond should we assume that this higher level of cost for insurance or locking-in-positions is going to be there? Or is that part of the review of where the retail scaling should be? I would say that that will be part of what the retail review and scaling will be.
But at this point I'm not really expecting that we will go out and purchase that outage insurance on an annual basis.
And our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So quick first question here.
As you think about the impact of polar vortex et cetera in the state of Ohio how are you seeing their willingness to perhaps engage in a more longer-term PPA-like manner with you all and perhaps how that meshes with your upcoming ESP? Julien this is Leila.
I think they are very focused on that.
I think Ohio is not alone in their concern at looking at the polar vortex and the market rules and what they mean in term -- potentially mean in terms of reliability going forward.
And I think you're right here in the sense that they dovetail into what might folks want to see within the context of an ESP going forward.
So those are the kinds of things that we are looking at now and talking with folks in Ohio about to see what it is that we might do in Ohio that's provided for under Ohio law that might mitigate some of the reliability issues with respect to that and to ensure that they have stable pricing in Ohio.
Research Division</strong> Could you perhaps just elaborate? How big or substantial are we talking about? What's the ambition here just to get a better sense? Julien I -- that is something that's actively being considered.
I mean that's something that we wouldn't decide solely at our end.
We would want to be talking with folks and discuss what is the appetite for this kind of things.
So that's the thing that's under discussion right now.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And then on the capacity piece I'd be curious; obviously you have a capacity auction coming up.
What's your latest thoughts on ATSI are and ultimately how that dovetails with I suppose your April proposal to shift some of the offered cap [ph] rule.
Okay.
I'll talk about it generally then turn it over to Donny to maybe give you some more specifics.
I think with regard to what FERC has already approved I think it will have the potential to move the auction a little bit.
But I don't think any of the rules currently approved are going to move the auction substantially.
I don't think that's consistent with what I'm reading out there.
I think longer term Julien and what some folks in the industry are talking about among themselves and now with some regulators from a federal level perspective in order to fix the uneconomic generation issue that folks are talking about that the Market Monitor talked about in his report you're going to need more than what PJM has proposed to FERC right now.
You're going to need additional changes both in terms of base residual auction changes that obviously wouldn't take place until 3 years out so I'll call that a longer-term fix.
But you have some companies Exelon notably one of them that says they're looking to make decisions in the shorter term.
And folks are going to have to concentrate and look at "Okay what might be a shorter-term fix that will take us to a place where you then have fixed the base residual auction 3 years out?" One of the things that folks are talking about is on-site fuel and looking to give units with on-site fuel some kind of premium in a market that they certainly don't get now tying into the concept of fuel diversity.
So those are some of the kind of things that I would like to see happen.
But certainly not something that we're going to see in an upcoming auction.
But with that I'll turn it over to Donny and his thoughts on the upcoming auction.
She said it pretty well Julien.
I don't have a lot to add.
I mean you kind of think of the plus and minus if you will.
On the plus side if you're a generator you've got the retirements that are out there.
You've got the import limits.
You've got the change that they made to DR.
You at least have some suggestion about the arbitrage issues.
Whether that gets done before the auction or not who knows? But on the minus side of the ledger you've got load forecast is down.
You've got a lot of new generation in the queue.
We'll have to see what happens there with that new generation.
I think that's kind of the wildcard for the upcoming auction if you will.
And generally I'd agree with Leila.
It's possible to see this needle move a little bit in a favorable direction but not nearly enough to sustain what the PJM needs from a reliability perspective going forward.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And just a clarification on Dan's last question there if you don't mind.
If you complete your review could this drive a higher level of maintenance CapEx going forward? Does that change at all? I don't see when anything that's happened Julien this is Jim that would drive any additional maintenance CapEx.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just looking at the fact book that you guys put out and Slide 151 I guess the issue of free cash flow.
It looks like it's substantially down.
Now part of because of the lower income in the guidance.
But there's also what appears to be a considerable higher level of collateral I guess that you guys expected.
And this other item other seems to have swung kind of negative.
And I was just wondering if this is -- how much of this might be sort of an ongoing free cash flow situation that we should think about in 2015 and beyond versus sort of a polar vortex issue now? Paul this is Jim.
I would say you hit it right.
A big driver of that is the earnings that are down.
So I would say that's probably associated with at least...
It looks like $100 million.
The rest of it -- almost $400 million it looks like could be...
I would say there's about $350 million there.
We had -- in the first quarter our collateral it was up $419 million over the first quarter of last year.
We did get some of that collateral returned to us when PJM reset their collateral requirements.
We did get about $275 million back.
So my expectation is collateral may be somewhat higher for a period of time but not to the extent we have it right now.
Okay.
And that other item that looked like it was almost $250 million swing almost what is that? And does that continue? What's the other item you're looking at? Well just when we look at cash before other items you've got high drags on sales collateral then other.
And other seems like it's $194 million negative now whereas last year -- I mean excuse me last numbers you guys gave was a positive $50 million.
So I'm just wondering what's that and does it continue? I mean how do we think about 2015 I guess and going forward in terms of what...
I wouldn't -- that's a working capital item Paul so I would not expect that to continue like that.
Can you tell us what it was? Or I can follow up offline.
You can follow up offline.
Paul will you give me a call after the conference call and we'll run that to ground for you? Okay.
Okay fine.
And then just in terms of SB 310 there have been some news reports about some changes and amendments to it perhaps.
And I'm just wondering what you guys think about those potential amendments and what you think the outlook for getting this thing done is and if you could just address that a little bit.
Paul this is Leila.
That is something that changes almost hourly.
I do think they are posed to do something.
I do think you're right in the sense that the different parties are looking at that and putting forward different compromise proposals as we go along.
I can't say that I have a perfect crystal ball as to what's going to come out the other end.
But I think directionally they are probably going to put forward something that is very positive.
I don't think it will look like exactly what has been originally contained in the legislation.
But I think from a perspective of saving customers' money in terms of energy efficiency requirements I think it will come out positive.
And I think hopefully they're slated to do something yes this week in the Senate.
And our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about 2015 EBITDA for the competitive operations.
And we've obviously seen a fairly large runup in power prices.
To what extent does that factor in? I honestly would have thought perhaps EBITDA would be a bit higher given the runup.
Can you maybe talk through how the change in commodity prices impacts that 2015 EBITDA? At this point Stephen we have not updated our 2015 EBITDA for the open positions we have right now.
So if those open positions are filled at a higher energy price as we're seeing then you could see that being driven up.
But I'll leave Leila to give you some more color on that.
Actually Stephen I think right now with respect to our current sales levels in 2015 roughly sold the 56 million.
If you were to not sell anything further going into it just sell it at the current forward market prices I think we would be within that range of EBITDA.
So I think right now although we -- obviously that's something we're going to continue to examine as we go forward I think we are comfortably within the range and are -- as I said continue to look at it as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But -- not to press on this too much but since the last update I mean we've seen a very large move in commodity prices.
I guess I would have expected that given that you do have a fair amount of open position there that the EBITDA would be higher.
Are there other offsets or other things we should be thinking about? I think one of the things you need to think about is the sustainability of the pricing going forward.
That's something that we continue to look at.
And as Tony mentioned as we go forward we're going to be looking at a different mixture of things potentially.
So again that's something that we will continue to evaluate as we go forward.
But right now we feel comfortable kind of within that range as currently shown.
Yes.
I think Stephen just to add to that.
This is Donny.
If you think about where we're at today Leila mentioned for 2015 we've sold about 56 terawatt-hours.
If you use -- we've given you a range on generation but -- 75 to 80.
If you just pick 76 as our generation that would say that against our generation we're about 20 terawatt-hours open.
The market's moved kind of roughly about $6 for cal year '15 so you're at about $120 million and I think our range was right at about $100 million.
So what we're saying is things are looking better obviously from a wholesale perspective.
We've got a nice open position.
We haven't quite figured out where we're going with retail sales so to speak.
So just a lot of things in flux there that kind of boil down and we'll probably be updating that later this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I see.
So there has been -- the move upward that does help you achieve that and helps you feel better about where you might be in that range it sounds like.
Yes.
No question the upward movement in the market is always desirable.
And our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> My -- not to beat a dead horse but just to follow up with -- along the lines of the last question.
Leila I just want to make sure I heard correctly you said that you've sold 56 terawatt hours -- or committed to sell 56 in '15 and committed to sell 32 in '16? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And one would presume given that power prices are up that your plants would dispatch more.
So you've given a range of generation output of 75 to 80 in both those years.
Shouldn't I presume that you'd be closer to 80 as with prices up and volatility up you'd probably run more? Because if I do -- if I run the deltas on power prices from the end of the year I actually come up with more like a little over $200 million in incremental EBITDA in '15 on 24 terawatt-hour delta.
So in order for that -- in order for you to not be above the last range something would have had to have changed on the negative side in your P&amp;L.
Greg I think your first comment was fair but I'm going to turn it over to Donny to address the latter piece.
Yes.
No Greg I think you're directionally correct.
There's nothing that's changed in the P&amp;L that would create downward pressure for '15.
We are still evaluating where we want to be with retail sales how we might want to play the wholesale market for example.
So that's really what's driving the fact that we haven't updated that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then all things equal in '16 you are long a little less than 50 terawatt-hours today correct? Yes.
With the 32 that's under contract and you can plan on us generating somewhere again in the 75 to 80 terawatt-hours.
That will leave you about -- just short of 50 terawatt hours open.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
At what point do you think you guys will be ready to give us some sort of a mark-to-market or sensitivity analysis on your position as commodity markets do change? Greg that's something that we're working on and we should be in position to do in some future call.
Our next question comes from the line of Naz Comuala [ph] with Fidelity Investments.
I just had a question for you.
I wanted to ask about coal piles and if you had any deliverability issues and just if you could speak to that going into the summer.
Okay.
I think our stockpiles are about 24 25 days right now.
We would typically have about 30.
So my sense is we probably had some -- experienced some issues this winter but I wouldn't classify them as significant or overall substantial the type of things that we typically see although this winter was a little more challenging on the Ohio river than normal.
So we're pretty comfortable with where our inventories are at and our ability to continue to build those as we move into the summer to then have adequate inventories as we move into next winter.
Okay.
Have you had to burn any gas in order to keep your coal piles at a certain level or it's all been normal on that front? It's all been normal on the front.
This is Jim.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
For those of you who are still in the queue to ask a question a member of the IR department will reach out to you.
Our 3 core businesses distribution transmission and competitive energy services provide us with the flexibility to capture value for our investors.
Our first quarter results in our distribution and transmission businesses were within our expectations and we are encouraged by continued signs of a more substantial economic recovery in our service area.
And we will continue working to change the rules policies and practices that currently create both negative reliability and price impacts in competitive markets and we have taken action to mitigate the impact of current market conditions.
We appreciate your continued support and we remain committed to providing long-term value and sustainable growth.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Second Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Roya and good afternoon.
Welcome to FirstEnergy’s second quarter earnings call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and is also available on our website under the Earnings Information link.
Today we will be referring to operating earnings operating earnings per share operating earnings per share by segment and EBITDA which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are contained in the consolidated report as well as on the investor information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
We also posted an updated backlog to our website earlier today.
Participating in today’s call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thanks Meghan.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
Since our last earnings call we have made significant progress on the plans we have outlined to execute a regulated growth strategy implement additional cost reductions and further reduce risk in our competitive business.
We have several positive developments to discuss today including the two rate filings in our distribution business that were announced yesterday and a shift in our competitive sales strategy as well as progress report on the transmission growth initiatives that are well underway.
We have a lot of ground to cover today so let’s get started.
I’ll begin by taking a few minutes to discuss key developments in our transmission business.
As you know our energizing the Future transmission expansion program is designed to modernize our grid reinforce the current system in light of expected plant deactivations and handle load growth primarily related to shale gas development.
This year alone we are on course to complete $1.3 billion in investments spanning more than 1 300 projects.
These include replacing equipment with advanced technology reinforcing substation facilities with advanced surveillance and security technologies and rebuilding 234 miles of transmission line.
In addition to these projects we are on track to build a new 138 kV substation near Clarksburg West Virginia and an 18-mile connecting project to support load growth in that area.
We have also completed more than one-third of the nearly 100 projects associated with plant deactivations.
These include the Eastlake 4 and 5 synchronous condensers a new 345 kV to 138 kV substation and a 59-mile 345 line in Northwest Ohio.
Currently we have nearly 1 500 workers engaged to support the engineering procurement and construction of these Energizing the Future initiatives.
Our management processors are in place to sustain the growth targets we’ve previously identified as well as our current in plan construction efforts.
On the distribution side of the business while Leila will fill in the details we filed applications for all of our Pennsylvania utilities seeking an increase in annual revenues of approximately $416 million.
This increase would place our average rates for distribution service in Pennsylvania about on par with the average rates charged by other major Pennsylvania utilities.
We also filed a new electric security plan for our Ohio utilities which we’re calling Powering Ohio’s Progress.
The filing proposes the continuation of many of the terms of the current ESP but also includes an economic stability program that will help protect customers from retail volatility and price increases that result from rising energy and capacity prices in future years.
This program would also help ensure the continued investment in and operation of significant base load assets located primarily in Ohio.
These plants provide fuel diversity as well as substantial employment tax and economic benefits.
We now have pending applications in New Jersey West Virginia Pennsylvania and Ohio which is consistent with our focus on regulated operations and should better position these companies to address the ongoing challenges of upgrading modernizing and maintaining adequate and reliable electric service.
Let’s move to a discussion about competitive markets which we believe are clearly in transition and how we are proactively responding by adapting our operations to create value.
While we have experienced a relatively stable and predictable wholesale market for the past several years we believe that a fundamental change in markets is underway as available generation is being reduced due to environmental rules and competitive market to rely more heavily on natural gas and other less reliable resources.
We saw the first evidence of this last year during hotter weather in September at the beginning of the plant outage season.
Then this past winter’s polar vortex highlighted again the issues the markets will likely face as a fleet of assets to provide a central electric service is fundamentally changed.
And when you couple those changes with a market construct that is eroding the price stability necessary to offer retail customers predictable prices the risk associated with serving retail loads will rise.
As a result we are taking action to better position the company’s competitive operations and generation fleet going forward.
This is consistent with our expectations that wholesale energy prices generally will be more volatile and the current forwards do not fully reflect the change in market fundamentals.
While Leila will describe our competitive strategy in more detail key accents include reducing our exposure to weather sensitive retail loads and maintaining a more open position to take advantage of market upsides and to provide our own reserve margins since the wholesale markets can no longer be relied upon to assure reasonable pricing.
We are in a good position to do this since our current retail book naturally opens as contracts expire and is also aligned with the reduction in available capacity as a result of environmental shutdowns.
More specifically we intend to exit the medium commercial and industrial or MCI and mass market retail channels as existing contracts expire but we will continue to serve strategic large industrial and commercial customers as well as our governmental aggregation in polar channels as appropriate.
Our generation in hedging strategy including maintaining an open position of 10 to 20 terawatt hours annually is focused on reducing overall risk in our competitive operations while maximizing margins EBITDA and creating value.
With respect to our generating assets we have an exceptional fleet with the size and scope that provides flexibility to adapt to current and expected market conditions and environmental mandates.
I’ll take a few minutes now to discuss these issues and opportunities within our fleet.
With regard to the EPA’s proposal issued in June the regulating CO2 emissions from existing electric generating units we continue to analyze and review the proposal with particular interest in the treatment of nuclear units.
The current proposal allows only 6% of existing nuclear generation to counter towards the reduction targets.
However I can assure you that each EPA will be receiving significant comments on this point.
We will continue to monitor new details that emerge as the regulatory process evolves particularly with regard to how our state regulators design their implementation plan.
At this point it’s too soon to say what if any changes would be required at our coal fire plants.
However we are already on track to achieve a 25% reduction below 2005 levels and CO2 emission by 2015 as a result of plant retirements and investments in plant efficiencies we’ve already made.
So how these rules ultimately are implemented and whether they are focused on CO2 emissions or driving other aspects of energy policy or largely determine what if anything we will need to do.
With respect to other environmental mandates we have negotiated with PJM to continue operating Eastlake units one through three and Lake Shore 18 following the expiration of reliability-must-run or RMR agreements in September.
We will now be in a position to operate these units until April 15 2015 when the Mercury and Air Toxic Standards rule impose a stringent emission reductions.
During the post RMR period these units will be operated based on market conditions and we will be responsible for all costs and receive all revenues.
Having these units available through the winter should help to provide an additional hedge against extreme weather events next year.
We have also taken yet another look at how we can reduce our cost for mass compliance.
Through our performance testing equipment assessment and inspections we have identified several additional opportunities for cost control and we now expect our total spend for mass compliance to be approximately $370 million which is down from our most recent estimate of $465 million.
The spending is about evenly split between competitive and regulated units.
Turning to other generate matters the PJM capacity auction for 2017 and 2018 which was held in May produced stronger results than last year.
However the prices were still not where they need to be to sufficiently support the type of generation resources needed to assure a reliable and diverse supply or essential electric service.
More specifically as to our company our 2 400 megawatt Bruce Mansfield plant which is the largest super critical base load coal fire plant in Pennsylvania is fully equipped with scrubbers SCRs and cooling towers and is critical to providing reliable electric service in ATSI did not clear in the most recent auction and only partially cleared in last year’s auction.
As a result while we will continue to operate and maintain the Mansfield plant we have decided to minimize capital expenditures at this site until we get the results from the incremental auction in September of this year and perhaps until after the PJM auction in 2015 or the 2018-2019 period.
It would take approximately two years to complete the new water treatment upgrades that are necessary for continued operation after the little blue run coal [ph] facility closures on December 31 2016.
If market conditions are unfavorable we are prepared to delay these projects pushing out the timing of the capital expenditures and possibly impacting the nature and timing of the outage.
We will continue to provide updates on Mansfield.
However at this point our current assumptions include the cost associated with the incremental upgrades in the 2015 to 2017 period of approximately $200 million.
If the project is delayed these costs will move to later periods.
And I’d note that we do not anticipate a material impact on EBITDA as a result of these potential actions.
Finally at Beaver Valley we are moving the unit two reactor head and steam generator replacement outage to 2020 from 2017.
This change which will not impact the safe operation of the plant is possible given the condition of the facility.
Our actions with respect to MATS spending and delaying capital spending at Beaver Valley are a continuation of our cost control measures.
The total capital savings from the MATS spending reduction the deferral at Beaver Valley and other fleet-wide capital reductions is approximately $425 million over the next several years.
We believe these actions will not only put us in a position to be cash flow positive at our competitive business during the 2015 to 2018 periods but also put our competitive business in a much stronger position to face current market conditions.
This morning we reaffirmed our full year 2014 operating earnings guidance of $2.40 to $2.60 per share reflecting our expectations for the remainder of the year.
We also provided incremental disclosures for our competitive operations in our fact book including the amount of capacity clearing in the annual PJM auctions as well as other details to support your efforts to model this part of our business.
We anticipate that this additional transparency will support proper valuation of our competitive operations going forward.
Finally on the topic of proper valuations we recognize that the market is assigning a discount that is likely due to a number of factors some of which are within our control and some not.
As we begin to get more clarity on external drivers such as the ongoing REIT case in New Jersey for example and communicate our strategy as we transform the company we anticipate this will provide better visibility into our growth prospects for the future particularly those related to our regulated utility and transmission operations.
Thank you for your support.
And I’ll turn the call over to Leila.
Thanks Tony and good afternoon everyone.
Let’s start with a deeper dive into our competitive generation strategy.
The strategy we are laying out today is straightforward.
We will pursue the effective hedging of the majority of our generation resources with reduced risk at the highest possible margins possible while leaving a portion of generation available to capture market opportunities.
We have already taken action to mitigate risks and create length in our portfolio by purchasing additional power and auctions during peak period as well as by buying outage insurance this summer all of which we spoke about at our last earnings call.
Since then we have allowed some attrition or our customer base and returned selected customers to polar service.
Going forward we intend to serve all existing customers through their contract term.
But as Tony outlined we will eliminate our selling and renewal efforts in MCI and mass market channel and to certain LCI customers.
We plan to maintain our sales efforts and government aggregation primarily in Ohio through a polar load and focus on selective strategic sales to LCI customers.
Looking at each of those channels we intend to continue sales to government aggregation communities primarily when contract prices move with the market at the percent of the price to compare.
These sales also have relatively low acquisition cost and margins are generally attractive.
With the polar channel we have virtually no acquisition cost.
We have the flexibility to make decisions at the time of each of auction as to the value of the loan.
We also plan to continue selling to strategic large commercial and industrial customers where we have a significant relationship or where the customer had a very high load factor that is not weather sensitive.
Basically these customers represent a wholesale type load but include a modest retail margin.
This menu of auctions provides us with considerable flexibility as we look to establish our hedging strategy.
And we are in a strong position given the hedges we already have in place for both 2015 and 2016 with about 54 terawatt hours and 28 terawatt hours committed respectively.
These include our currently committed direct LCI MCI and mass market sales book which tapers off through 2018 but with a significant drop staring in mid 2015.
As well as the polar and government aggregation sales a portion of which extends for 2019.
We expect that our level of sales to large commercial and industrial customers polar and government aggregation would sell in at about 10 to 45 terawatt hours annually.
Given our current committed we expect to be in that range beginning in June 2015 and for the subsequent 12 month-period.
In additions we expect to use hotel sales to hedge our generation and potentially utility purchase power agreement.
We view all these auctions as a hedging tool chest with considerable flexibility to adjust as market conditions dictate.
The charges associated with our decision to exit certain channels were $0.07 per share in the second quarter with an expected ongoing savings of about $90 million annually.
Going forward we may cover a portion of our sales commitment with purchased powers in various amounts based on the season fleet operational plan and other considerations and amounts to be determined as appropriate.
But we expect purchased power to be minimal going forward.
Our competitive generation fleet can generally produce between 75 and 80 terawatt hours per year with up to 5 terawatt hours of additional generation available from wind solar and our OVEC entitlement.
Our updated EBITDA estimate for 2015 is in the range of $900 million to $1 billion and assumes a market forward power prices of just under $40 a megawatt hour as of mid-July.
In our fact lore [ph] which is available on our website you will see that we have slipped our close and open position which will enable updating the open position on a mark-to-market basis going forward each quarter.
In addition we are also providing sensitivities with $1 a megawatt hour change in market prices changing 2015 EBITDA at roughly $28 million.
I’d also like to note that we expect to provide at least 2016 EBITDA guidance at the annual EEI conference in order to provide longer-term transparency with respect to our competitive operations.
As we transform our competitive operations we will focus on leveraging market opportunities as they present themselves with a diligent focus on risk management.
As you can see our FES team has done a great deal of work over the past quarter to reevaluate sales target and identity opportunities for cost control so that we can best position of our competitive business going forward.
At the same time our regulatory team has also had a productive quarter.
And I’ll switch gears now to provide an update on current regulatory issue and the filings we made yesterday.
Our Ohio ESP filing will provide electric service to our utility customers for a three-year term from June 1 2016 through May 31 2019.
We have named this plan Powering Ohio’s Progress as it provides numerous benefits that support reliable electric service uplift our customers from volatility and retail price increases and encourages growth and development of the State’s economy.
A highlight of the plan is the Economic Stability Program which provides for rider to cover the cost associated with the proposed purchase power agreement between the Ohio utilities and FirstEnergy solutions.
The proposed PPA would dedicate the output of Davis-Besse SAMA and a portion of OVEC for approximately 3 200 megawatt or an average of approximately 23 terawatt hours annually beginning in June 2016 and running through May 2031.
As designed the utilities would sell this power into the market and net any revenues associated with these plants against cost thereby serving as a type of rate stabilization mechanism protecting against volatility and retail price increases.
Importantly the Economic Stability Program will not impact the Ohio utilities competitive bid process and retail customers will still be able to choose an alternative retail supplier for power supply.
Under Powering Ohio’s Progress base distribution rates would remain frozen throughout the term.
A typical residential customer using 750 kilowatt hours of electricity per month could expect to pay an average of $3.50 more per month during the first full year of the Economic Stability Program.
But as I’ve described customers would receive a credit on their electric bill if market revenues exceed costs as projected over time.
The current ESP is widely considered a success in terms of its ability to produce competitively priced electricity for customers to remain with our utilities for generation focus [ph] as well as to create a level playing field among suppliers competing to serve retail customers to choose a shaft.
It was broadly supported by diverse groups representing various customers and other interested parties.
Powering Ohio’s Progress builds on that successful platform.
It will not change the amount of power procured through the auction progress or otherwise detract from the competitive retail markets in our region.
Our Ohio utilities would continue to utilize competitively bid auctions to procure generation supply for our customers who don’t choose an alternative retail supplier.
In addition Powering Ohio’s Progress delivers significant benefits to the State of Ohio by retaining local jobs protecting local tax revenue and promoting economic development.
It benefits Ohio utility customers through the safeguards from volatility and potential retail price increases.
And it benefits FES by providing a top base source of revenue for approximately 25% of its generation output.
We have requested the decision respecting our plan by April 8 2015 which we believe is adequate time for all interested parties to evaluate the proposal.
This timeline also fits with our competitive generation hedging strategy and then it provides adequate time to redirect these megawatt hours to other available hedging opportunities should Ohio decline this opportunity.
And provides adequate time for the polar auction for supplies starting June 1 2016.
In Pennsylvania our four operating companies are seeking to increase base rates to ensure continued service reliability improvement for the 2 million customers they serve.
Our Pennsylvania utilities have maintained stable rates for many years through strict cost control measures and careful planning.
The last base distribution rate increase for all four companies was more than 20 years ago.
If the proposed rate plans are adapted customers will benefit directly through continued service reliability enhancement to the local distribution networks that deliver electricity to homes and businesses in our community.
These enhancements build on our Energizing the Future transmission initiative which includes support for smart technologies and can help reduce frequency and duration of power outages.
The filing request approval to increase operating revenues by approximately $152 million at Met-Ed $120 million at Penelec $28 million at Penn Power and $116 at West Penn Power based upon fully projected test years for the 12-month ended April 30 2015.
As a result rate case request would increase average monthly customer bills by approximately 11.5% at Met-Ed 8.6% at Penelec 8.7% at Penn Power and 8.4% at West Penn Power which in all cases is substantially below the rate of inflation since the last case for each company.
We expect a decision with the Pennsylvania rate cases in April 2015 timeframe.
We have provided more detailed summaries of both our Ohio and Pennsylvania filings in a letter to the investment community we issued yesterday after market close.
With respect to other regulatory activity in New Jersey the Administrative Law Judge close the record on our base rate case of June 30th and we expect his recommendation later this quarter and anticipate APU action on our case in the fall.
In Pennsylvania on June 5th the PCE approved the amended smart meter deployment plan for our Pennsylvania companies allowing us to move forward with building the entire Penn Power smart meter system of 170 000 meters by the end of next year.
We began installation last month.
And finally on May 23rd the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that FERC’s requirement that RTO to pay LMP to demand response that participates in wholesale energy market encroaches on the State exclusive jurisdiction to regulate retail market.
The court’s decision was based on its finding that demand response is a retail product and therefore FERC does not have jurisdiction to regulate it in wholesale energy markets.
The court’s action in the case it takes an important step toward allowing wholesale energy market to begin functioning properly.
On the same day as the court’s decision and before the May 2014 capacity auction results were announced we filed a complaint at FERC citing the court’s decision asking FERC to pull demand resources out of the May 2014 PJM capacity auction.
The PJM capacity auction is a wholesale market so the inclusion of demand response resources is inappropriate in light of the court’s decision.
Eliminating demand response as a compensated capacity resource would provide much needed uplift for essential physical generation and better allow the PJM capacity auction to work as originally intended.
In fact in an analysis published last month the PJM market monitor found that removing demand response from the May 2014 capacity would increase the clearing price in RTO from $120 a megawatt a day to $282 a megawatt a day.
I would like to thank you for your time.
Clearly it has been a very active and constructive quarter on both the competitive and regulatory front.
And we will continue to position our competitive business for the future while ensuring the best possible regulatory environment for our company.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jim for a review of the quarter.
Thanks Leila.
As I discuss our financial results it may be helpful for you to refer to the consolidated report which was issued this morning as in available on our website.
Our second quarter operating earnings of $0.49 per share were in line with our expectations.
These results compared to second quarter 2013 operating earnings of $0.59 per share.
While I will walk through the drivers of each of our business units in a minute the major drivers included lower commodity margin at our competitive business and higher operating expense in our distribution business primarily due to increased maintenance and vegetation management cost.
On a GAAP basis second quarter earnings were $0.16 per basic share compared to a loss of $0.39 per basic share in the second quarter of 2013.
The special items that make up the $0.32 difference between GAAP and operating earnings can be found on page 2 of the consolidated report.
Let’s turn to a review of the key drivers of operating earnings across each of our business segments starting with distribution.
During the second quarter operating earnings for our distribution business were $0.39 per share which compares to $0.45 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
The decrease is largely due to our enhanced focus on maintenance and vegetation management work in the second quarter of this year.
These activities together with a 56-day outage at Fort Martin Unit 1 resulted in a $0.05 per share in operating expenses compared to the same period in 2013.
Distribution operating earnings were also impacted by higher depreciation pension expense and interest expenses compared to second quarter of 2013.
The Harrison/Pleasants asset transfer increased earnings by $0.01 per share and a lower effective tax rate resulting from changes in state apportionment factors increased earnings by $0.02 per share.
Looking now at distribution deliveries while operating earnings associated with deliveries were flat the overall trend remains positive particularly regarding the continued steady improvement in our commercial and industrial sectors.
Total distribution deliveries increased by 175 000 megawatt hours or less than 1% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Now looking at the mix of sales milder temperatures resulted in a 2% decrease and deliveries through residential customers.
Heating degree days were 6% lower than 2013 and 10% below normal.
While cooling degree days were 7% below 2013 and 3% above normal.
Adjusted for the impact of weather residential sales decreased about 1%.
Sales to commercial customers increased 1% overall and were up nearly 2% on a weather-adjusted basis.
And sales to industrial customers were 2% higher than the second quarter of 2013 driven again by shale activity as well as increased production from the steel and automotive sectors.
As we have discussed over the past several quarters the overall trends particularly for commercial and industrial deliveries remain solid.
In fact over the past 12 months while weather adjusted residential sales have been essentially flat commercial deliveries have increased 2% and sales to industrial customers are up nearly 3% reflecting four consecutive quarterly increases in each of those segments.
The industrial pipeline remains promising particularly with respect to shale-related activity and we remain cautiously optimistic that growth in this sector will continue to accelerate over the next several years.
Moving now toward transmission business operating earnings were $0.15 per share which is a 25% increase compared $0.12 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
The increase was driven by higher transmission revenues resulting from revenue requirement increases at ATSI and Trailco following their annual rate filings that were effective in June as well as higher capitalized financing cost.
Let’s now turn to our competitive business.
Operating earnings were $0.03 per share for the quarter which compares to $0.11 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
Operating earnings were impacted by a lower commodity margin higher investment income and lower operating and maintenance cost.
Commodity margin decreased operating earnings by $0.14 per share driven primarily by lower energy prices at the time the sales were committed and lower contract and wholesale sales volumes.
While unit prices benefited from higher capacity rates they also reflect the adverse impact of generally lower energy prices.
You will recall that market power prices fell significantly beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Prior to the drop in prices our 2014 sales book was 30% committed while 2013 committed sales were 60% committed.
Therefore more of our 2014 sales were committee at lower energy prices as compared to 2013.
Our overall retail customer count decreased 100 000 to 2.6 million since June 30 2013 and total channel sales decreased 1.6 million megawatt hours or 6%.
We were already taking steps to be more selective in our sales to the large and medium-sized commercial and industrial customers during the second quarter.
And this strategy resulted in a 16% decrease in those channels compared to the same period in 2013.
Our total customer count in the LCI MCI and mass market channels will continue to decrease as we implement the strategy Leila and Tony discussed earlier.
Total generating output from ongoing units decreased 1 million megawatt hours.
This was driven by outages and derates at our super critical coal units during the quarter which offset higher generation at our nuclear fleet primarily due to fewer forced outage days compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Fuel and purchased power cost were lower in the quarter and commodity margin also benefitted from higher PJM capacity revenues net financial sales and purchases and lower MISO and PJM transmission expense.
Additionally O&amp;M cost increased earnings by $0.03 per share primarily related to the lower retail and marketing related expense partially offset by higher outage cost at our nuclear and fossil plants.
Overall we remain pleased for the continued solid performance of our transmission and distribution businesses during the second quarter and first half of the year.
And we believe the strategies we have put in place in all three of our businesses will lead to strong stable returns going forward.
As always we will continue to focus on our core businesses with a commitment to operational excellence financial discipline and predictable and sustainable growth opportunities.
Now I will open up the call to your questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting our question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Hello Jonathan.
Hi.
Just on the transition of the portfolio the retail portfolio can you give us a sense of how quickly you think you’ll arrive at sort of the optimal shape because obviously the sales ratchet down but you’re saying you want to basically be out of MCI and mass market.
So when the sort of FirstEnergy new FirstEnergy retail book – when do we see that book? Jonathan this is Donny.
You probably haven’t had a chance to look at the fact book yet but when you get a chance if you look at Slide 102 it will show a buy channel as those sales turn them out.
Okay so we can – so there’s a slide in that.
I haven’t seen that you’re right.
So there’s a slide in there which will kind of answer my question.
Yes it’s a good slide.
It will show channel by channel so you’ll be able to see the MCI and the LCI et cetera.
Kind of generally speaking maybe we’ll probably hit our target volumes about first quarter of second quarter of ‘16.
Okay.
And then is it correct that given what you’ve said that you’re going into this coming winter that you are still probably short in the same amount that you were going into last winter but you purchased protection.
Do I understand that correctly? No not at all Jonathan.
Again I apologize that you haven’t had the chance to look at the fact book but you’ll see a real good slide on Slide 101 that shows our length.
We’re actually about 500 megawatts long going into the winter.
And that excludes our peaking capacity.
So the simple cycle CTs and the oil CTs would lie on top of the 500 megawatt that we’re already long.
So we’re in pretty good shape for the winter.
So I see that one’s like – that’s a monthly look rather than an aggregate annual look? Yes that’s month by month.
And it reflects any outages and whatnot to fit our plan.
I see that.
Very helpful.
On a slightly different topic that I did – I think I had the number correctly that you thought you would have in aggregate $425 million capital savings over the next several years.
Yes that’s basically 2015 to 2018.
Okay.
Is that savings of the money that you’re just not going to spend because you found ways not to spend it or is this some of it saving and some of it deferral.
Well some of it obviously is deferral especially that related to the Beaver Valley Steam Generator and replacement project.
Now that will move into the – probably a little probably a little in ‘18 more in ‘19 and 2020 when the project is that fully undertaken.
The MATS savings are in fact real.
They’re not moved around and much of it depends on what the nature of the other capital investments are.
Some will be as you call permanent some will be just moved depending on when outages are scheduled.
How would the $425 million bread down between permanent and deferrals roughly? Well one of the largest portions of the $425 million would be the Beaver Valley movement.
And I think that was about $270 million of the $425 million.
Great.
Thank you Tony.
And if I could just one final thing did I hear right you said you would expect it to give at 2016 EBITDA guidance for the EI [ph].
Is the implication that you might go out further? I think that’s the only way you can think about it.
But right now – No I just want to make sure I heard that right.
In focus [ph] I’m trying to give you at least ‘16.
Okay.
Okay.
And then can you give us any sense at all of what the – I think you talked about the implication for residential customer would be of the ESP of $3.50 for a month which I guess one could calculate a net revenue uplift but then there’s obviously commercial and industrial as well.
How does the ESP change your look? Can you give us any aggregate sense of that? I do not have that really handy.
It would be a kilowatt an hour charge so over an average customer’s usage.
But I really can get that but I don’t have that readily hand now.
I’m sorry Jonathan.
All right.
Thank you.
I’m sorry for too many questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Fremont with Jefferies please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
I was hoping that we could get you to elaborate a little bit on the sale of the generation from FES to the regulated companies.
For instance when we think about the revenue requirements should we tie to sort of a book value number for those assets.
And what would be the book value? So the way to think about it is kind of – if you go back in time a regulated rate of return on rate base and O&amp;M so how one would have traditionally done it in Ohio.
And that then is compared to what the market produces and net difference is either a credit of charge to customers.
And that information is contained in the filing although I believe under confidentially.
Do you have like a book value number for those megawatts? No.
Again it’s – if you think about it in terms of evidence in the case it is evidence in the case but it is under confidentially agreement.
Okay.
And then in terms of the customers that are opting for this do you need enough customers to sign up for all the generation output of these units in order for all of this to qualify? Or would this amount of generation be dedicated irrespective of the customer sign up? Okay.
So it is a non-bypassable charge.
So if you think of it what’s actually happening is the FES side of the house is selling all the output from these three plants to the utilities.
The utilities are taking the output and selling it into the marketplace.
They are paying the competitive side of the house the cost base kind of the traditional rate base kind of return.
And they are taking the money they get from the marketplace again netting it against what they paid the FES side of the house and would either be a charge or credit to customers.
So the power itself is not actually going to serve customers directly.
It is acting as a rate stabilization mechanism.
And over the 15-year term it is predicted to produce savings for customers at $2 billion or $800 million net present value.
So over the 15-year term it will be a huge savings to customers.
And if you think about it from a competitive standpoint for something in Ohio Ohio looks to be a competitive state.
It does not at all harm competition in Ohio because the Ohio polar auctions will go forward just as they had in the past.
They will procure exactly the same amount of power and suppliers can compete for customers in the same exact way they’ve competed for them in the past.
So again I don’t believe it is going to affect competition or ability of suppliers to compete either retail or at the wholesale polar level but it is giving customers $2 billion and stability going forward.
And then can you remind us who are the key parties that you would look to – if you were to try and settle in Ohio who are the key parties that you would need in the settlement? So in the past we have been very successful in getting quite diverse support around our settlements.
Industrial customers are generally the most knowledgeable about markets and have been the ones in the past who have been interested in this kind of thing.
So we’ll be looking to them.
Staff in the past had something – I wouldn’t say it’s entirely similar to what we were putting on the table with respect to AP.
I think there’s very significant differences.
What we have in our Powering Ohio’s Progress and in particular the economic stability program that is very different from that which is in the AP case for one thing the Powering Ohio’s Progress deals with the economic vitality of the state the jobs the taxes in Ohio these were plants that were originally built to serve Ohio customers.
And if market revenues didn’t prove to be sufficient to keep these plants around the transmission that would be needed to compensate for that would especially be allocated to the after loan [ph].
So it’s something that needs to be thought of in terms of the overall dynamic.
So I think while I mentioned the staff and they might have had some concerns about remotely similar kind of agreements in the past I think we bring something different here and I would look to them as a settling partly.
Retail suppliers is another entity.
And again since I don’t believe this affects them I would be hopeful that we could have positive discussion with them and then obviously the Office of Consumers Counsel.
Okay.
And my last question is can you update us on the status of the nuclear sound leasebacks and are you including in your capital requirements a potential buyout of the nuclear leases when they come to you? Yes Paul this is Jim.
We’ve reached agreement with a majority of our lessors.
I think we only have 50 megawatts that we have not reached an agreement on.
We have buyback of the significant portion of that already so I think we only have about 150 megawatts left to repurchase.
So we do have some anticipated capital outflow in the 2016-’17 timeframe for those outstanding megawatts.
Thank you very much.
Okay thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you very much.
I was wondering if you might take us through the drop in guidance for GAAP earnings and the increase in excluded items from the operating earnings.
Yes Hugh this is Jim.
Our GAAP earnings it changed by about $0.34 and it was made up of first plant deactivation.
That was $0.12 and that mostly is a contract termination a fuel contract termination.
Our retail repositioning that’s about $0.11 which you saw some of that already incurred this quarter.
$0.10 on mark-to-market which is just as positions expiring at this point and then we had $0.01 for trust impairments.
So that’s what made up the change in our GAAP earnings of $0.34.
And could you explain perhaps the plant deactivation? I didn’t quite catch that.
So you had a fuel contract that’s made and that caused you to deactivate a plant or –? Oh no I’m sorry.
That was just the termination of a fuel contract and it kind of relates to not eating as much of our fuel that we had under contract.
Understood.
Because of prior deactivations you no longer needed the supply? That’s correct.
Right okay.
And then I also would like if you wouldn’t mind just a quick clarification of the comments around the Mansfield plant.
I got a little bit confused there.
I understood that the plant will continue to operate but that your minimized CapEx and in particular you’re going to defer a water treatment upgrade but that’s not one of these do or die CapEx projects that would be required for continued operation or did I get that wrong? I think – Hugh this is Tony.
Let me kind of walk you through that.
With respect to Mansfield we’re going to continue making the max spend that’s required for continued operation of that plant.
That’s part of the game plan.
At Mansfield however Mansfield needs a new water treatment facility.
It’s about a $200 million facility.
It will take about two years to construct that.
Because the Mansfield ash disposal site closes on December 31 2016 essentially that construction project must start no later than January 1 2015 in order to assure us that we will have it available for continued operation of the plant beyond January 1 2017.
So if we delay that expenditure it will require us to time differently how we take the Mansfield unit down and when we take it down to accomplish what needs to be done from a water treatment standpoint.
Okay.
But you would still be operating – Does that help you? Yes I believe it does.
But you – It cannot operate after December 31 2016.
Cannot operate but it – Cannot operate without the water treatment facilities.
Got it okay great.
Thank you very much.
That’s it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking – Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Good.
Just really quickly on the hedge change it sounds like it was a $90 million benefit that you guys saw annually from that.
Could you just elaborate a little bit more about what that is? Is that income is that – did I get it right? Yes Paul yes you got that right.
That would be income.
Is that pretax or after tax? And when was that part – Those are expenses.
Okay those are – And what we’re really looking at Paul that would be reductions in agent fees personnel overall operating costs because you’re not running a retail operation any longer at the same extent that we are today.
And when would that show up or to show up? Probably in the latter part of this year.
Okay.
As we wind down the operations it will smooth out over time to – Is there – So we’ll see some of it this year most of it next year.
Is there any decrease in margin because you guys are taking less risk it looks like instead of derisking the hedging.
Is that correct? I mean is there any other offset that we should think about that or – I mean you can get back – I’ll just follow up with you guys afterwards.
The second one that I really have for you guys is is as you know there’s this thing called the Edgar principle when we have to deal with affiliated transactions.
I know you guys know a lot more about it than I do.
Does it apply to you do you think in this case in the Ohio – the Power Ohio case? And if not why not and if so how do you solve it for it I guess? So we have a market base rate authority and we believe that the PPA is covered under that.
So as a result of long term contract would be seen as a market transaction is that what you mean I’m sorry? That is correct.
So we would not need to be filing at FERC so we would not have that review process occur.
Okay so FERC would not be reviewing this under Edgar.
Right.
Okay.
And then just finally with the $140 million decrease in FFO it seems for 2014 we saw a decrease in the first quarter as well.
Any trend there or is that just noise or what have you? Paul this is Jim.
That decrease in FFO that was attributable that fuel supply contract I talked about that we terminated.
And the other portion was associated with the expenditures for our retail repositioning.
Okay thanks so much.
Operator we’ll take one more question.
Certainly.
Our final question will come from the line of Greg Orrill with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes thanks very much.
Thank you for all the information.
On Slide 106.
Okay Greg.
Now we’ll all be flipping pages there.
Within the hedged EBITDA the capacity expense is $150 million higher than the revenue.
How much of that is offset in ‘16 if it’s possible to say? Greg this is Donny.
I think the best way to think about capacity revenue and capacity expense as it’s laid out here is you really have to think about them as completely separate transactions almost.
The capacity revenue that we get is a result of bidding our units into the BRAs and into the incremental auctions.
We would get that capacity revenue regardless of what we’re doing on the retail side.
The capacity expense on the other hand is tied directly to what we do on the retail side.
And the revenue that offsets that capacity expense is built into our retail rates.
Thank you.
Okay Greg thank you.
I’d like thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
If we didn’t get to you in the Q&amp;A please call our IR department and we’d be happy to get back with you.
As you heard today we’re making substantial progress towards our long-term regulated growth strategy in our transmission business.
Our Energizing the Future transmission investment initiative is well underway and we are on track to complete the investments we have endebtified [ph] this year while laying the groundwork for future construction efforts.
In our distribution business we now have active rate cases in four states including our proposed plan in Ohio that would help protect customers in the State from both potential market volatility and retail price increases.
At the same time in our competitive business we are taking further steps designed to reduce overall risk while retaining the flexibility to capture future market opportunities.
And we intend to continue to reduce our overall cost structure over the next several years.
We believe that positive developments we discussed today together with our strong commitment to success will help us provide long-term value and predictable sustainable growth to our investors.
Again we appreciate your continued support.
Thanks for joining in today.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.’s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Beringer.
You may begin.
Thank you Manny and good afternoon.
Welcome to FirstEnergy’s third quarter earnings call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released earlier today and also available on our website under the Earnings Information link.
Today we will be referring to operating earnings operating earnings per share operating earnings per share by segments and adjusted EBITDA which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are contained in the consolidated report.
The updated fact book as well as on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today’s call are Tony Alexander President and Chief Executive Officer; Chuck Jones Executive Vice President and President FirstEnergy Utilities; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Tony Alexander.
Thanks Meghan and welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we will provide an update on the important initiatives that are shaping our company's future.
Since our last earnings call in August we have continued to build positive momentum in our regulated businesses and limit risk at our competitive operations.
And at the same time we are starting to see real progress as a result of our efforts to advocate for a competitive market that supports price stability and reliability.
I will start with the review of development across our business including some of the early and encouraging signs of reforms in the regional competitive markets.
Then Chuck will join us with an update on the distribution business and our transmission investments.
Leila will then discuss the status of the rate cases at our utilities the ATSI filing that we made last week and other regulatory matters as well as an update on the changes we have put in place in our competitive business.
Finally Jim will review our third quarter and year-to-date financial results.
Okay.
Let's get started.
I'll start with a look back at events that have shaped this year so for.
We believe 2014 will be remembered as a pivotal period for both our company and for the competitive environment in our region.
The stage was set with the unusually warm temperatures in our region in September 2013 which strained the regional grid.
With the start of the next year the same region was impacted by the polar vortex and subsequent severe weather events throughout the winter.
These episodes of increased demand revealed weaknesses in the regions power supply and resulted in nearly 100 emergency actions interruptions of service to customers and severe spikes in wholesale power prices.
We reacted quickly to the deterioration in market conditions reassessing our sales strategy and setting a new course for our competitive business based on the new market dynamics.
As you know we took a series of significant steps reduced our exposure to weather sensitive retail loads and to maintain a more open position to take advantage of market upside opportunities.
At the same time we have been working to support changes that can help prevent similar or even more disastrous stress on the electric grid in the future.
And it is becoming evident that the weather events are serving as a catalyst for a number of very important reforms that will not -- that we not only endorse but view as critical to stabilizing the wholesale markets in this region.
One such reform is PJM’s capacity performance proposal.
This is a positive step and truly recognizing the role of baseload generation with firm fuel the grid stability and reliability.
As Leila will explain work on this proposal is continuing but our belief is that this could have a very positive effect on the company and the grid.
The future role of demand response also continues to be in play in PJM.
The full panel of the DC Circuit recently declined to rehear the ruling that FERC does not have jurisdiction to regulate demand response in wholesale markets.
As I'm sure you all know FERC has signaled its intent to appeal that ruling to the United States Supreme Court.
Again Leila will discuss the demand response issue.
However a favorable resolution of this issue will be positive to the company the markets and the grid.
The increase focus around market reform issues seems to signify the start of a meaningful shift in the competitive business environment after years of very challenging conditions.
We remained optimistic that this is only the beginning and we will continue to advocate for a workable solution that can ensure adequate revenues revenues for operators of baseload generation while also recognizing that fuel diversity and maintaining the right mix of assets are essential to reliability of our region's electric system.
Turning now to other developments across our company starting with generation.
Last week we reached an agreement in principle to purchase the remaining lesser equity interest in the nuclear sale leaseback of Perry Unit 1 representing approximately 55 megawatts.
Consistent with our strategy to take these future obligations off the table upon the completion of this purchase we will have either purchased or have binding agreements for the purchase of all the ownership interest in connection with the nuclear sale leasebacks at Perry and Beaver Valley.
In August we told you that we decided to minimize capital expenditures at our 2 400 megawatt Bruce Mansfield plant while we evaluate the strength of competitive markets.
Although the results from the September 2016 2017 incremental auction were stronger Mansfield did not clear.
While we continued to operate and maintain the plant we will consider the impact of the market reforms currently being considered as well as the results of the May 2015 PJM auction for the 2018 ’19 period in our decision about the timing of the dewatering facility.
That is required to continue the plants operation after December 31 2016.
As we look towards colder weather we believe our baseload coal-fired and nuclear units are well prepared to meet the demands of this winter.
These units have on-site fuel supplies that are not generally affected by extreme weather.
And thus play a critical role in providing reliable and affordable electricity to the grid year-round.
During the summer and fall months we also performed a series of maintenance activities to prepare our baseload generating stations to meet the demands of the winter.
We have set up heating elements that provide additional warmth to piping added antifreeze to some equipment installed storm barriers to protect from winter weather provided temporary heaters in areas most susceptible to cold and increase fuel supplies at our coal-fired facilities.
In addition we will stay in close contact with PJM throughout the winter to avoid scheduling plant maintenance during periods of expected high electricity use.
This work should help prepare our fleet for potential demand spikes this winter.
Leila will provide an update on other initiatives within our competitive energy services segment as well as introduce 2016 adjusted EBITDA guidance for the business later in the call.
With respect to our distribution business we are very engaged on the regulatory front.
We just reached the settlement in our West Virginia rate case and have several other active rate filings as well as all our fourth ESP in Ohio all of which are moving through the regulatory process.
We expect outcomes in all of these cases by May of next year.
As these proceedings are completed we will be able to provide much more transparency with respect to our expectations in the distribution business and the timely recovery of our investments going forward.
In our transmission business we continue to make excellent progress with our Energizing the Future initiative which Chuck will describe in more detail.
We also filed with FERC last week to change the structure of ATSI’s formula rate.
The proposed change requests moving from an historic test year to a forward-looking test year which will provide a better match of our cost as we continue our investments in this initiative.
This morning we reported third quarter operating earnings of $0.89 per share in line with our expectations.
We also reaffirmed our 2014 operating earnings guidance range of $2.40 and $2.60 per share.
Jim will provide more detail on that guidance as the mix of operating earnings among our reporting segments has changed slightly.
At EEI conference next week we plan to share more detailed information about the 2015 drivers in our regulated businesses and better frame future opportunities in our transmission business.
Looking ahead we will provide additional updates as we begin to get more clarity around other external drivers such as ATSI filing and any further developments in the competitive markets than once we begin to receive result from a rate cases likely in the springtime frame.
We’ll be able to provide not only full 2015 guidance but significantly more detail and greater clarity into the financial and operational expectations across the company.
It has been a busy and productive period and we are on track with a solid plan to build and strengthen our company.
We have put into play critical elements that are needed to provide long-term value and stable predictable growth.
We remain committed to driving change both within the company and in our industry to better position FirstEnergy for the future.
Thank you for your support.
And I’ll turn the call over to Chuck Jones for an update on our regulated businesses.
Chuck.
Thanks Tony.
I'm pleased to join the call today.
I'll start with a brief look at our distribution business and then move to an update on our Energizing the Future transmission expansion program.
We remain encouraged by the steady growth and stable load in the commercial and industrial sectors of our distribution business both of which continue to benefit from the modest economic recovery and increased economic investment primarily related to shale gas.
While weather was significantly mild compared to the third quarter of 2013 our distribution business continued to produce solid results.
More important as you have heard over the past several earnings calls the overall trends for commercial and industrial deliveries remain very solid.
In fact adjusted for weather we have now seen five consecutive quarters of growth in both the commercial and industrial segments.
The industrial pipeline remains promising.
Among this region's traditional industrial base including steel automotive electrical equipment and petroleum sectors nearly all of our key customers are expanding and clearly shale related activity remains a bright spot.
Signs point to continued and accelerated growth in this sector.
In addition to its considerable impact on our distribution business the shale industry is also driving growth in our transmission segment.
Approximately $250 million of the regulated transmission investments we have identified for 2015 at TrAILCo are designed to meet rising electric demand driven by the shale gas industry across our regulated service territories.
This infrastructure including high-voltage substations and transmission line is coming online to accommodate new shale gas processing facilities pipeline compressor stations and other energy intensive operations in Ohio Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
These midstream projects alone account for 1100 megawatt of anticipated electric load growth in 2015 through 2020.
The rapid growth in the shale gas industry is transforming communities and creating new jobs and economic opportunities throughout our service territory.
The investments we're making in transmission infrastructure will benefit customers throughout the Marcellus and Utica shale regions by boosting electric service reliability across the system.
New electric infrastructure will directly support the build out of the shale gas industry and the resulting economic activity across the region.
By upgrading our local power infrastructure we can help communities attract other energy intensive industries while ensuring the highest levels of service reliability for every electric customer.
But the shale industry is just one driver of the $4.2 billion in investment opportunities we are planning from 2014 through 2017 across our transmission footprint.
In 2014 we are on track to complete $1.3 billion in investments expanding 1100 projects this year.
This year's initiatives include approximately 100 projects associated with generating plant deactivations which we have discussed in the past.
We continue to make steady progress with projects designed to enhance service reliability for our customers.
For example in Toledo Ohio we are constructing a new 48 mile 345 000 volt transmission line using existing transmission towers and building a new substation.
This $32 million project which is on track for completion by June of 2015 is designed to enhance service reliability in our Toledo Edison Service area and to accommodate future electric load growth.
In our Mon Power service territory we are on track to complete a large expansion project this year that will support the electric demands of the areas rapidly expanding Marcellus Shale Gas industry including 280 megawatts of incremental load that is expected to come on line in December.
The $50 million project includes installation of the new substation with state-of-the-art voltage support as well as sectionalizing equipment on an existing 41-mile 138 000-volt transmission line will enhanced service reliability for Mon Power customers along the Route 50 corridor in Doddridge Harrison and Ritchie counties.
These are just two examples of the hundreds of projects that are already completed or underway.
We expect the transmission business to be our primary growth platform not only through the previously announced $4.2 billion investments through 2017 but as we continue to implement our “Energizing the Future” initiative for many years thereafter.
In fact only $1.6 billion of the initial $7 billion “Energizing the Future” investments is being undertaken in this period.
The vast majority of the current estimate is for RTEP projects related to generating plant shutdowns and to meet the increasing demands within the service area.
We will layout additional details regarding future transmission investment opportunities at EEI next week.
Thank you.
I will now hand the call over to Leila.
Thanks Chuck and good afternoon everyone.
I'll begin with a brief update on our competitive business and then I will look at the status of our distribution rate cases and other regulatory matters.
The transformation of our competitive business is well underway.
As we announced in August we are pursuing the effective hedging of the majority of our generation resources with reduced risk and at the highest margins possible while leaving a portion of our generation available to capture market opportunities.
The actions we have taken put our competitive business in a stable position from which we can gauge market conditions and participate when and where the opportunities are most promising.
Consistent with our strategy we continue to allow attrition of our MCI and mass market customer base as contract terms expire as well as weather sensitive LCI loads.
Overall contracts sales volume decreased by 4.5 million megawatt hours compared to the third quarter 2013.
At the same time we are maintaining targeted sales levels to government aggregation customers in Ohio and participating in POLR auctions where we see value.
During the past month POLR auctions were conducted in both Pennsylvania and Ohio that will ultimately determine retail generation service rates for these small service customers.
Both auctions produced results that appear to reflect an increased risk premium which we believe is associated with volatility and uncertainty in PJM.
In Pennsylvania the auctions were for 12 months and 24 months residential and commercial products for delivery beginning June 1 2015.
Auction clearing prices for residential products range from between $70.09 to $85.15 per megawatt hour while clearing prices for commercial products range from between $74.46 to $89.65 per megawatt hour.
HPS won nine tranches in that auction.
In Ohio HPS won four tranches in the 10th wholesale auction which produced an average clearing price of $73.82 per megawatt hours.
These results will be blended with previous auctions and one upcoming auction in January 2015 to establish retail generation rates from June 1 2015 through May 31 2016.
For 2015 our committed sales are about 59-kilowatt hours.
After 2016 committed sales are at 33 kilowatt hours reflecting the currently committed sales growth of LCI MCI and mass market as well as the POLR and government aggregation sales.
We remain on track to transition to a target portfolio of retail sales in LCI and government aggregation as well as POLR sales in the range of 10 to 45 kilowatt hours annually.
Let’s look now at financial expectations.
For 2015 we are reaffirming our adjusted EBITDA guidance range for the Competitive Energy Services segment of $900 million to $1 billion.
Given the slight increase in market prices versus mid-July we are comfortably in the upper end of that range at this time.
Last quarter we told you that we expect our competitive business to be cash flow positive of the period 2015 through 2018 and we continue to support that expectation.
This conservative forecast does not take into account the numerous uplift opportunities such as incremental auctions the removal of demand response and other possible catalysts.
We will revise our outlook if needed as these issues are resolved.
Today we are introducing adjusted EBITDA guidance for 2016 in the range of $850 million to $950 million.
The reduction compared to 2015 is driven primarily by seven-month of high capacity prices in 2015 versus five months in 2016 and the amount of generation that clear 2015 ’16 auction versus the ’16 ‘17 auction.
The 2016 adjusted EBITDA guidance estimate also includes an additional 500 megawatts of capacity that cleared in the incremental auction for the 2016-17 PJM planning year held in September.
That leaves about 2 700 megawatts still available to participate in the July incremental auction for the ’16 ’17 periods.
I will note that adjusted EBITDA guidance we are providing for both 2015 and 2016 does not reflect any of the changes that are being considered in the capacity markets or any estimates of future incremental auctions applicable to those periods.
All of which could provide significant uplift as the value of baseload generation is recognized in the market.
We have put together in place a solid strategy to position our competitive business going forward.
And I believe we are in a sound position to take advantage of market upsides.
Let’s shift now to a review of regulatory development.
As Tony mentioned PJM recently provided in more detail around his capacity performance proposals.
Key elements of the proposal include classified supply resources into two groups -- capacity performance resources and base resources.
Liming the amount of base capacity resources that will be procured in the base residual auction allowing units to satisfy the capacity performance criteria to offer into the RPM auction as the net cost of new entry and imposing significant penalties in the event of non-performance during peak usage periods.
We do have some concerns around PJM’s proposals.
Last week as a member of a coalition representing more than 69 000 megawatt of installed capacity in PJM we advised PJM that three important changes should be made in the capacity performance proposal.
First a multi-year pricing mechanism that limits year-to-year price declines to not more than 5% should be incorporated into the proposal.
Second price cap for the transitional auctions should be increased to the net cost of new entry.
And third the proposed penalty structure should be reformed so that the potential penalties are better balanced with the financial opportunities for participating as a capacity performance unit.
We will continue close engagement on PJM’s proposal and will participate fully in the stakeholder and thought proceedings that are unfolding through the end of the year.
Another key issue is the proper role of demand response in PJM markets.
As Tony mentioned the DC Circuit recently rejected a request for rehearing ruling that PJM does not have jurisdiction to regulate demand response by means of wholesale energy market rules and tariffs.
At FERC’s request the Court has stayed the enforcement of its order until December 16 of 2014 and then pending FERC’s potential request that the US Supreme Court accept an appeal of the Circuit Court's ruling.
In light of possible outcomes from the decision a PJM white paper recently proposed to move demand response from the supply side to the load side.
However because the proposal still would permit demand response to participate in price formation in the capacity markets including potentially to set the market clearing price we believe that the proposal is legally unsupportable.
We have communicated our concerns with this approach to PJM and expect to continue this dialogue with PJM and affected stakeholders.
Finally on September 22 2014 we filed our amended complaint regarding participation of demand response in the May 2014 base residual and obviously more rule develop on our complaint with order 745 proceedings progress.
Let’s now move to our assay formula rate filing at FERC.
As Tony said this filing which was made on October 31st proposes to change the structure of the ATSI formula rate.
The proposed change requests moving from historic test year for transmission rates reflect actual cost from the prior calendar year to a forward-looking test year which would reflect the estimated cost for project expected to be in-service within the current calendar year with an annual true-up which would allow for real-time recovery of cost.
We have requested that new rates be effective on January 1.
Turning now to review of state initiative.
In Ohio our fourth ESP called Powering Ohio's Progress which was filed in August is before the PUCO.
In addition to building on the success of our current ESP the plan includes the proposed economic stability program which involved a 15-year purchase power agreement between our Ohio utilities and SEF which will help ensure the continued operation of more than 3 200 megawatts of vital baseload generation while benefiting our customers by mitigating market volatility and rising retail prices.
Hearings are scheduled for January with the decision requested by April 8 2015.
We continue working with customers employees and officials on the state to advocate for this plan which we believe is very good for Ohio and for our customers.
Let’s turn now to New Jersey where the Board of Public Utilities approved an Administrative Law Judge request for 45-day extension to render an initial decision in our base rate case.
The ALJ’s initial decision is expected to be filed by November 13.
The BPU also issued a favorable decision in the generic proceeding reviewing its policy regarding the use of a consolidated tax adjustment and base rate cases.
The Board stated that it would continue to apply its CTA policy and base rate cases subject to the following modifications proposed by the BPU staff.
Calculate savings using a five-year look back from the beginning of the test year allocate savings with 75% retained by the company and 25% allocated to rate payers and exclude transmission assets of electric distribution companies in the savings calculation.
As it relates to our pending rate case the order provides for the BPU following the initial decision of the ALJ to reopen the record for the limited purpose of adding a CTA calculation reflecting this modified policy.
Although we are still reviewing the CTA order by our interpretation and calculation we expect the CTA revenue adjustment to be reduced from approximately $56 million under the earlier policy to approximately $5 million to $6 million.
In Pennsylvania evidentiary hearings in the base rate proceeding of our four operating companies are scheduled for January 13 through 16 2015 with the final order expected in May.
And finally in the Mon Power and Potomac Edison rate case yesterday we filed a settlement agreement with the Public Service Commission of West Virginia which is subject to their approval.
The agreement includes a base rate increase of $15 million to help address operating costs at our power stations and our distribution business.
It also moves the costs associated with the Harrison asset swap into base rate and eliminates the recovery of those costs through the temporary transaction surcharge.
It also includes a vegetation management surcharge of approximately $48 million recovery of nearly $46 million and cost associated with major storms of 2012 and increased billing assistance for low income customers.
Parties to the settlement agreement include the PSC staff the Consumer Advocate Division the West Virginia Energy Users Group and Walmart.
We're very satisfied with the settlement and believe it will provide us with the resources necessary to help ensure continued safe and reliable electric generation and service for our customers with reasonable returns for our business.
Pending approval by the PSC the rate increases would go into effect on February 25 2015.
Thank you for your time.
We are pleased with our progress to position the competitive business for future success and to assure a successful regulatory environment for our regulated businesses.
Now let’s turn the call over to Jim for a review of our third quarter and year-to-date financial results.
Thanks Leila.
As I discuss our financial results it may be helpful for you to refer to the consolidated report which was issued this morning and is available on our website.
As Tony mentioned earlier our third quarter operating earnings were $0.89 per sh0are in line with our expectations.
Third quarter 2013 operating earnings were $0.94 per share.
On a GAAP basis 2014 third quarter earnings were $0.79 per basic share compared to $0.52 per basic share in the third quarter of 2013.
A list of the special items that make up the $0.10 difference between our GAAP and operating earnings can be found on page 2 of the consolidated report.
Now let’s review the key drivers of operating earnings across each of our business segments.
We will begin with our distribution business where we reported third quarter operating earnings of $0.56 per share compared to $0.60 per share in the third quarter of 2013.
Moderate weather was the most significant factor this quarter with lower distribution deliveries impacting earnings by $0.03 per share.
With respect to the other drivers in the distribution business pension expense depreciation and interest expenses all increased slightly in the quarter.
However these factors were offset by earnings related to the Harrison/Pleasants asset transfer and a lower effective income tax rate.
Looking more closely at the affects of weather on third quarter results cooling degree days were 15% below last year and 17% below normal which led to a 1.5% decrease in total distribution deliveries.
Most of this impact can be seen in the residential sales which decreased 784 000 megawatt hours or about 6% compared to the third quarter of 2013.
In the commercial sector third quarter distribution deliveries to commercial customers decreased by 199 000 megawatt hours or 2% due to the moderate weather.
We can get a better picture of the sales trends by looking at the 12-month weather adjusted average for the period ending September 30.
Over that time frame residential sales are basically flat compared to the same period a year earlier while commercial sales are up nearly 2%.
Finally industrial deliveries which do not have a strong correlation with weather increased 3% compared to the third quarter of 2013 driven by continued strength in most of our key industries including steel shale refinery electric manufacturing and chemical.
The industrial sales trend over the 12-month period through September 30th also reflects a 3% increase.
As Chuck mentioned we're very encouraged by the continued strength of the commercial and industrial sectors in our region.
And we remain optimistic that we are seeing signs of an authentic turnaround in the economy after the sharp declines that began in 2007 followed by long period of stagnation.
Let’s look now at our transmission business.
Third quarter operating earnings were $0.13 per share unchanged from the third quarter of 2013.
Drivers in the quarter included higher transmission revenues as a result of the revenue requirement increases associated with ATSIs annual rate filing and higher capitalized financing costs related to our 'Energizing the Future' investment program.
These were offset by higher vegetation management expenses and increased interest expense.
In our competitive business third quarter operating earnings were $0.25 per share compared to $0.24 per share in the third quarter 2013.
Operating earnings benefited from lower operating and maintenance costs a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by lower commodity margin and lower capitalized financing cost.
Commodity margin decreased operating earnings by $0.04 per share due primarily to lower contract sales volume and higher capacity expense partially offset by higher PJM capacity revenues.
Additionally while higher capacity rates resulted in higher contract sales prices overall unit prices had a negative impact compared to the third quarter of 2013.
As we mentioned in the past this can be traced back to the significant decline in market power prices that began in the fourth quarter of 2011 when we held a larger open position for 2014 relative to 2013.
Consistent with our strategy to reposition our sales portfolio our overall retail customer account is now approximately 2.3 million a decrease of about 400 000 compared to the third quarter of 2013.
At the same time total channel sales decreased 4.5 million megawatt hours or 16%.
This decline is intentional as we focus on effectively hedging our generation and eliminating weather sensitive low.
Sales to governmental aggregation customers decreased 14% due to lower sales and eliminate an Ohio driven by pure customers and lower usage due to milder whether.
Total generating output at our ongoing units increased 802 000 megawatt hours driven by fewer outrages at both our super critical coal units and nuclear fleet compared to third quarter of 2013.
A strong generating output along with lower contract and wholesale sales resulted significantly lower purchase power costs.
Commodity margin also benefited from higher capacity revenues and lower MISO and PJM transmission costs while higher net financial sales and purchases which are used to hedge our exposure to market pricing congestion volatility reduced market.
The lower commodity margin was more than offset by a decrease in O&amp;M resulting from lower retail and marketing-related expenses and decreased plant costs.
Finally I'd like to review the benefits we're seeing this year related to the effective tax rate.
On a consolidated basis the effective tax rate for the third quarter was 32.1% compared to 34.1% in the same period of 2013 resulting in an increase in consolidated earnings of $0.02 per share.
The 2014 effective tax rate benefited from an IRS-approved adjustment that increased the tax bases in certain assets allowing for increased tax deductions.
This was partially offset by higher tax valuation allowances.
On a year-to-date basis consolidated effective tax rate is 32.4% compared to 36.2% for the same period in 2013.
We continue to focus on managing our tax obligations through various federal and state planning initiatives and currently estimate our effective tax rate to be 30% to 31% for the year primarily reflecting additional benefits in the fourth quarter resulting from the resolution of a state tax position.
Our 2013 effective tax rate was 36.2% and we anticipate our tax rate going forward to be between 36% to 38%.
Before we move on to review of financing activity I'd like to take a moment to review our 2014 operating earnings guidance.
As Tony mentioned earlier we are reaffirming the range of $2.40 to $2.60 per share and at the same time making adjustments among the segments.
I’ll walk you through these changes which are outlined on slide 154 the fact book that was posted to our website today.
First; in our distribution business the impact of mild temperatures lower than the forecasted residential usage and increased non-deferred storm expenses bring that segment’s operating earnings to a new midpoint of a $1.93 per share for the year.
We also see improvement in our competitive business from lower operating costs bringing the midpoint up $0.03 to $0.20 per share an improvement in our corporate segment reflecting the favorable tax rate increases the midpoint $0.05 to a negative $0.17 per share and regulated transmission remains unchanged with the midpoint of $0.54 per share.
Finally we continue to fund our transmission expansion program during the quarter through the issuance of $400 million of 30-year senior notes at ATSI in September.
Also during the quarter we re-marketed $241 million of pollution control revenue bonds at FirstEnergy generation and First Energy nuclear generation.
We remain pleased with the strong overall performance of our transmission and distribution businesses during the third quarter and first nine months of the year.
We have a solid plan in place across our company to drive results and we're committing to creating value for investors.
Now I'll open the call to your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Our first question is from Dan Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Hello Dan.
Hey.
There was huge matter of information.
Thank you for all that.
I guess looking at the PPA or the ESP process in Ohio something that’s come up and raised is the idea of the off-market transaction for 15 years in those assets.
Can you just kind of walk through maybe a little more of the legal justification for beyond the obvious benefits to Ohio customers or the visibility? Hi Dan.
This is Leila.
So obviously and proposing this my legal team was very mindful of the legal precedence that was out there.
I think from a policy perspective we put forward a very wonderful case that we address that and then I will go into more of the legal specifics.
If you think about these plans especially Ohio plans build and service Ohio customers Ohio jobs Ohio tax saves.
So from a standpoint of whether this is something that is beneficial certainly from an economic standpoint is very beneficial.
Having this generation as we justified on our filing also over the 15-year period would provide essentially $2 million worth of benefits to customer so acting like an insurance policy.
From a legal perspective if you think about the aggregate rule Ohio is a competitive state.
So we do not have captive customers.
So FERC has waived the rule it applied to us.
Also we were very mindful of two of the other cases up there being the -- hit the (indiscernible) case and the Hanna case.
And have put in place mechanisms within the case so that we do not run or fall of the particular things in those cases that triggered FERC’s finding that they were legally informed.
So offline we can go into the details.
But again the legal team is very mindful of that in the structure of the PPA proposal and what the commission can and can’t do and the terms and conditions actually associated with the PPA.
Okay.
And I guess on the West Virginia settlement the element that I haven’t gone through all of it given the earnings day today.
But the Harrison plant probating contributed as much or any on this that we’d expected on the first transfer.
Would this settlement help get the full value of that rate base uplift into earnings going forward? So essentially what this case did so let me back up for a second so.
In the Harrison transaction we stipulated that case.
In that agreement we agreed to file this base rate case and so this is the case where we basically flipped what would have been surcharged into base rate.
So essentially all we did is take what we’ve covered in that revenue stream and flip it to base rate treatment.
And then on top of that the stipulation provides for an additional $15 million increase.
And in addition to that roughly $48 million of our vegetation management surcharged which should help with our distribution and reliability which is good in West Virginia but should help enhance that as we go forward.
The stipulation also provides for establishment of regulatory assets associated with mass investments in 2016 and ’17 and other different provisions from the company's perspective which we believe is very good.
Again this is a case that we filed as a result of a stipulation and I think -- prior stipulation and I think from a company standpoint our customers’ standpoint is a very good result.
Okay.
And just one last question just on the quarter.
With this lower demand with the weather and all that how much benefit did you guys see out of the retail business despite reduced volatilities is that kind of what helped on some of the earnings gap this quarter?  Dan this is Donny.
In the main what we saw obviously there wasn’t a volatility issue that we faced in the first quarter.
But we took advantage of a lot of the O&amp;M savings.
We’ve reduced the workforce and that sort of things so that's really what flowed through for us in the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Paul Fremont of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I guess my first question is if I look at capacity performance and the potential hatter how should we think of that relative to your PPA proposal in Ohio? Would you potentially rethink the offer in Ohio? Hi Paul.
This is Leila.
So we made our filing and we are going to go full with our filing.
I think having the potential for capacity performance proposal by PJM and if it gets eventually approved by FERC will be even a more enhancement for Ohio customers.
But we would not withdraw our ESP commitment.
I think overall the proposal by PJM is a positive development.
But as I noted I think there are ways that it could be improved.
I think that they should consider with performance persistent pricing mechanism.
If you think about it in terms of the generation the need for revenue and kind of the longer-term horizon if it were to have a mechanism whereby year-to-year the downside were kept by 5% generators where we could get a better sense of what the capacitive pricing might be from year-to-year that would definitely be a positive development.
In the transitional years we think it should be uncapped up to net cone given that the markets I think everybody’s account have not produced the revenues that most agreed that they should have.
We think that that would be a more appropriate place getting revenue to generators so they can make the investment in their plans to increase reliability and a better balancing of the penalty structure.
I think PJM approved upon it but we still think the penalty structure is a little bit more draconian than it should be at this point in time.
And when Jim when you ran through corporate another I guess corporate another is already benefiting this year from tax from lower tax what should we think of -- in terms of corporate and other as sort of a better indication for a run rate? Okay Paul.
I’d said earlier our effective tax rate would be anywhere between 30% to 31% this year and its going to most likely move back up to the 36% to 38% of our range next year.
So that that would be probably about $0.25 a share Paul and most of that flows through corporate another.
So a $0.25 per share increase off of the 17 right? That’s correct.
No not all of that will go to corporate but most of that would.
Okay.
And in terms of the nuclear leases.
The last nuclear leases if I recall you bought them in the range of like $1500 per KW.
Can you -- what type of a price did you pay for the most recent lease purchases? We haven’t disclosed that yet Paul.
The transaction hasn’t completed yet.
I can say I would say both parties are very comfortable with the price we paid.
So that’s something we are ready to disclose at this point.
And the last question in West Virginia was it a black box settlement or was there some agree to level of ROA? So the parties agreed to the $15 million increase in the other terms.
The commission actually asked that we -- in our filing how we got to that.
So you will see us part of the settlement.
If you go to the exhibits each of the parties will lay out how it got there.
The company has not laid out the ROE associated with it.
But there is an ROR number.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jonathan Arnold of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Sorry good afternoon guys.
Hi.
Jonathan.
Hi.
Just a quick question on as we look at these adjusted EBITDA outlooks for the competitive business am I right that this is a delta between the commodity margin and the EBITDA number is mainly O&amp;M consistent -- and probably general taxes consistent with the earnings statement? That will be correct Jonathan.
Okay.
So I guess my question is when you look at the 15 to 16 numbers the implied expense number goes down about $100 million between 15 and 16.
And if you look at the run rate on 14 its down quite a bit more than that 15 or 14.
So can you just talk about how we think the components that bridges that as those numbers just seem quite big? Jonathan this is Donny.
Yeah I think if you take a look at the EBITDA from 15 if you’re trying do come up a walk from 15 to 16.
In ’15 we’ve got a midpoint of $950 million.
And then if you look at what the capacity revenue does from ‘15 to ‘16 it comes down about $225 million… Yeah but… And then we have improved margins about a dollar megawatt hour so that’s a positive about $80 million.
And then other O&amp;M and cost reductions that’s about $100 million gets you right to about $900 million for midpoint.
Okay.
That was already my question is there a $100 million of O&amp;M saving embedded in that forecast it sounds like the answers is yes.
Yes.
That’s throughout and we have one last nuclear outage in the ‘16 timeframe and that especially helps.
Okay.
Can you also bridge so that we’re in a $1.5 billion of non-GAAP O&amp;M in a year-to-date through September and it’s been running about $400 million at least last quarter.
So how does it got from that number down to the $1.250 billion or so implied in the ‘15 guidance? What are the big drivers there? I’m looking at the delta between… Jon it’s one or two have high rates take it get back because there’s probably a lot of components to make that up so I shall get back to you after the call.
Happy to do that.
Thank you.
The next question is from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hello.
I wanted to explore the capacity performance penalty side of the equation and Leila you touch briefly on it.
Just curious if the ultimate roll ends up quite similar to the proposed penalty rule that PJM has laid out.
Would that as you assess kind of the risk reward of your fleet? Do you think that would likely lead you to think about some degree of asset shutdowns not at all or how do you generally think about that the risk of penalties? So the penalty structure again I think was mitigated from their prior proposal.
But you can’t look at it in isolation you have to look at the other moving pieces in parts.
Right now the coalition noted in their comments that right now if you had a single 12-hour too bleak it could cause you to lose the equivalent of 71 days of revenue.
So there are both kind of things you need to look at and have a trade-off.
If the pricing mechanism will raise in that color and you’re able to recover that level.
You might be able to think a little more positively about that kind of penalty.
So again there are a lot of moving pieces in parts and I wouldn’t look at the penalty just in isolation.
Okay.
Understood.
And then just thinking also about carbon regulation and how the different states might look at that I was particularly interested in Pennsylvania and Ohio is it your sense that there is some probability to those states who think about joining the regional carbon mechanism such as regi do you think the states are more likely to resist the proposed regulations? What’s your general sense of those two states and how they are thinking about carbon? Stephen this is Tony.
I think at this point it’s a little too early to tell.
I still think that each states evaluating and trying to understanding and comprehend the proposed rule and as well as trying to figure out whether or not the alternatives to them moving from to a mass kind of calculation would be easier for them to manage.
So I think at this point everybody is trying to understand what’s going on not clear where they are going to end up yet.
And my senses is that until we better understand how this rules going to be applied in the options it will be hard for any one of the states to otherwise indicate exactly which way they are intending to go.
That’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Angie Storozynski of Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I have two questions.
One is so I’m clear in the guidance of 2016 the generation capacity that didn’t fear in either the original or incremental auction is assumed not to receive any capacity revenues? That’s correct Angie.
Okay.
And then second I hope I misheard that one is okay.
So there is a change in the effective tax rate between ‘14 and ’15 and what is the $0.25 of a swing? Is -- are you suggesting that the parent level drag increases from $0.17 to like $0.40? Jim? Yes.
That’s right Angie.
That will be the range.
Okay.
But why is -- I mean what was then the effective tax rate in ’13 when we have about $0.27 or $0.26 drag? I think the effective tax rate in ’13 was about 36%.
Okay.
So it’s a same type of rate that you’re guiding for ’15 and beyond.
So why such a big delta? We have some additional debt outstanding and we have some of that debt had variable rates so those rates could increase on that also Angie.
So it’s primarily associated with additional interest costs.
Okay.
Thank you.
Operator we’ll take one more call.
Certainly the next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Can you hear me? Yes Paul.
How are you? All right.
There is some -- on slide 161 of the investor handbook.
There is a large pension and OPEB cash flow item of $750 million to $550 million.
And I was wondering that wasn’t their last time and I’m wondering what’s the driver in that and why is there a cash benefit associated with that? Paul this is Jim.
What that slides referring to is that we looked at the discount rate at the end of the third quarter which we traditionally do and we say what would be change to our GAAP earnings be if that discount rate remain in effect till December 31.
So what that’s representing is a discount rate that goes from 5% down to a range of either 4.25% to 4.5%.
That also takes into account a change in the mortality tables where the liability increases by 4%.
So that’s not a cash flow benefit its just a change in the liability of our pension plan that we would have to report the impact to GAAP if the discount rates stays where it is today.
Okay.
So I mean so in the sense reconciliation of net income GAAP to FFO this is a non-cash reversal.
That’s correct.
So I guess okay.
I’ll have to follow up offline I guess.
And the deferred taxes in ITC that went down by about $190 million anything in particular there? This is Jon.
This is primarily just utilization of some of our NOLs that are making up the difference.
So that’s primarily the largest driver.
I mean just two back on the CES EBITDA there seems to be an other income decrease on slide 136 and I’m just wondering what’s the driver there in 2016? That’s primarily lower earnings from some of the investments we have.
We have an equity interest in a couple of different investments and we’re seeing lower earnings in that period so that’s going to drive that down.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
If you didn’t have a chance to ask your questions please contact our IR Department.
We look forward to seeing many of you next week at the Annual EEI Financial Conference in Dallas.
As you heard today we’re making solid progress on the initiatives that the designed to deliver predictable and sustainable growth at our regulated distribution and transmission businesses.
And you will hear more at EEI of our future transmission investment opportunity.
In our competitive business we’re implementing a sound strategy to reduce risk while positioning the business for the future.
At the same time we continue to strongly advocate for market reforms that can better support much needed price stability and service reliability and we’re pleased to see growing momentum in support of these changes.
We’re building a foundation for long-term value and growth for our investors and we appreciate your continued support.
Thanks and look forward to seeing you in Dallas.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now turn the conference over to Ms.
Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Beringer.
You may now begin.
Thank you Manny and good morning.
Welcome to FirstEnergy’s fourth quarter earnings call.
First please be reminded that during this conference call we will make various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements with respect to revenues earnings performance strategies prospects and other aspects of the business of FirstEnergy Corp.
are based on current expectations that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
A number of factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.
Please read the Safe Harbor statement contained in the consolidated report to the financial community which was released yesterday and is also available on our website under the Earnings Information link.
Today we will be referring to operating earnings operating earnings per share operating earnings per share by segments and adjusted EBITDA which are all non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are contained in the consolidated report.
The updated fact book and as well on the Investor Information section on our website at www.firstenergycorp.com/ir.
Participating in today’s call are; Chuck Jones President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Chuck Jones.
Thanks Meghan and good morning everyone.
It’s my pleasure to talk with you today.
For today’s call we are deliberately keeping our prepared remarks rather brief so there will be plenty of time to take your questions at the end.
Clearly the topic many of you will be most interested in is our 2015 earnings guidance which we made public late last evening.
But before moving to that discussion I’d like to take a moment to thank Tony Alexander for his leadership of FirstEnergy over the past decade.
Tony guided our Company through a dramatic expansion and navigated through one of the most challenging periods in the history of the utility industry.
As you know we also announced last night that Tony’s last day will be April 30th and we certainly wish him well as he begins his new chapter in his life and enjoys more time with his family.
Since moving into the CEO position on January 1 I’ve had the opportunity to either meet personally or talk with many of you over the telephone.
We’ve had some good two way conversation over the past couple of months.
And I want you to know that the entire FirstEnergy team is committed to providing frank and open discussion about the challenges and opportunities we are facing as a company that’s why in light of the recent Pennsylvania rate case settlements we decided to provide you with our earnings guidance range earlier than originally planned so you would have a clear sense of what we are expecting this year.
The 2015 operating earnings guidance range of $2.40 to $2.70 per share is in line with the updated drivers for our utilities business and corporate segment that we provided in November although some street expectations have not been adjusted to reflect that information.
Looking at consensus estimates we saw a fairly widespread of about $0.50 ranging from $2.60 to over $3.10 and we understand the challenges of modelling FirstEnergy giving all the moving pieces we have right now.
Given the disparity between the street consensus and our 2015 base earnings we believe it’s very critical to ground the investment community on earnings sooner rather than later as we reset our utilities around the new growth strategy.
After today our focus shifts to customer service driven growth across the utility segment.
In that light now that we have made our 2015 earnings guidance public following this call Irene and her investor relations team will be happy to answer your detailed questions about all the disclosures we made yesterday and today including here in our consolidated report and in our updated fact book.
In the future once all of the pending rate case proceedings are finalized modelling are going forward earnings power should be far more transparent.
And we hope to better articulate that for you later this year during the analyst meeting where we expect to provide a growth target for our utilities as well as in overall strategic update on all three of our business segments.
We continue to believe the initiatives that were put in place during 2014 laid the path for our future growth and success.
So let’s several minutes to review the key events of the past year.
We successfully launched our Energizing the Future of transmission expansion program.
Under this program we will invest billions of dollars with an eye towards serving our customers better.
These investments will improve reliability add resiliency to the bulk electric system and install enhanced physical and cyber security to ensure our assets perform as designed.
With our multiple rate proceedings we have also set the stage for similar investment in our regulated businesses and more timely recovery of those investments.
The recent major storm events that have impacted FirstEnergy service territory have highlighted the need for hardening of our distribution systems.
And of course in the wake of the polar vortex and other severe weather events last winter we began taking a far more conservative approach in our competitive business to limit risk and -- focus on greater stability.
We have made good progress on these efforts.
Our West Virginia rate case settlement was approved by the state public service commission earlier this month and we have filed settlements in our Pennsylvania and Ohio rate proceedings that require regulatory approval.
We also look forward to closure on the base rate case at JCP&amp;L and remain hopeful that the board of public utilities final decision in that proceeding will appropriately include the $580 million incurred by JCP&amp;L for the 2012 storms.
Once that case is finalized we look forward to working with the BPU to make Jersey Central Power &amp; Light a stronger company going forward.
In our ATSI proceeding we believe FERC’s approval of our request to move to forward looking rates as of January 1 signals support for transmission investments for grid reliability.
As we anticipated FERC accepted it subject to refund and also set hearing and settlement procedures and initiated an inquiry into ATSI’s return on equity.
We believe that more timely recovery associated with forward looking rates is a major benefit to us which outweighs the impact of a potentially modest ROE adjustment.
This rate structure for ATSI will provide a much better co-relation to our cost as we continue to implement our Energizing the Future of transmission investment plan.
That plan is comprised primarily of thousands of small customer focus transmission projects and equipment upgrades that can be implemented relatively quickly across our existing 24 000 miles of transmission assets.
These projects are designed to enhance system reliability and resiliency for our customers while providing long term and sustainable growth for FirstEnergy.
I strongly believe that the right investments are those that customers value and are willing to pay for and that provide attractive returns for our investors.
It’s gratifying to report on the successful first year of that program.
We overcame some weather related setbacks early in the year but by December we successfully completed our plan of $1.4 billion in new investments spanning more than 1100 projects.
You can see the impact that that investment when you look at our financial disclosures for the transmission segment.
The plan for 2015 calls for an additional $970 million investment across 430 projects including 1000 pieces of substation equipment and 300 miles of transmission lines.
By the end of this year we expect to be well on track to meet our four year goal of $4.2 billion in investments through 2017.
Key projects for 2015 include construction of a new substation and transmission line near Clarksburg West Virginia to support an existing gas processing plant and reinforce the regional grid.
We are also planning construction of a new transmission substation near Burgettstown town Pennsylvania that will support low growth and improve service reliability for more than 40 000 customers of West Penn Power.
At the EEI conference last November we told you that we have identified about $15 billion in incremental transmission projects in 2018 and beyond providing a path to both improved customer service and a long term and sustainable growth platform for our company.
Lets shift gears now and look at our competitive business.
The actions we continue to take with regard to our more conservative strategy have been very effective at reducing the overall risk in this business.
While our open position is subject to market movement we are structuring the business to be more predictable and self sustaining.
Our conservative approach will better protect us in the event of extreme weather or unplanned outages at a major generating facility.
We are projecting this business to be cash flow positive each year over the 2015 to 2018 period using conservative assumptions.
I’ve been asked numerous times about the possibility of divesting this business frankly at this point in time it doesn’t make sense while we are at or hopefully near the bottom of the market to sell these assets at the lowest value they will likely ever have.
In addition capacity market reforms and pending changes to the treatment of demand or response are likely to provide near term value for this business.
Once these moving pieces play out we should have a much better picture of what we can expect from our competitive business going forward at this point it remains a core business for FirstEnergy.
However we continue to monitor closely the financial performance of some of our individual generating units particularly those located in western PJM.
While the low market revenues are build into our financial models several of our units continue to struggle to run economically.
The strategies we have in place in all three of our business segments are sound.
They are the right priorities for our company at this time and in this environment and we will continue to refine them as conditions require or opportunities emerge.
Along the way we intend to provide clear communication about our challenges opportunities strategies and goals.
I’m sure you will have many questions at the end of this call and we have full investor meeting schedule coming up.
I will make myself available as often as necessary to ensure we address all of your questions.
I also hope to get to know many of you more in the next several months.
For those of you who are not yet familiar with my style I was trained in as an engineer to solve problems.
My career FirstEnergy has been focused on customers and looking for sound long term solutions.
Our distribution and transmission businesses have been my main focus although I did have the opportunity to oversee our competitive business for the couple of years as well.
As I mentioned earlier in my mind the best investments like the ones we’re making in our transmission business are those that provide both customers and shareholders with real value.
Its our responsibility to provide customer with a safe reliable affordable and clean electricity and my philosophy is that a commitment to these principals reflected in both our decision making and our management style is good business.
Lastly I believe very strongly in transparent communications whether to employees customers regulators or the financial community that mean saying what we know when we know it.
That’s why we decide to write earnings guidance sooner than originally expected.
Looking forward we will remain focused on long term shareholder value executing our regulated growth plans and taking a conservative approach to our competitive business.
At the same time we will continue to evolving [ph] to meet the needs of our customers who rely on electricity to power their businesses in everyday lives.
It’s my priority to move FirstEnergy to its next period of growth and success benefiting our customers employees and investors.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Jim for a short review of 2014 financial results and additional details on our earnings guidance.
Following Jim’s remarks we’ll open the call to your questions and we should have ample time to address whatever you’d like to talk about.
Thanks Chuck and good morning everyone.
This morning we’ve reported 2014 fourth quarter operating earnings of $0.80 per share and full year operating earnings of $2.56 per share which was at the upper end of our guidance range.
It was a strong quarter and solid year overall with numerous achievements.
In somewhat of a change to past practice I won’t cover the results for the quarter in detail by segment since that information is available in the consolidated report or from our IR team.
Instead I will speak to the major drivers and events while leaving more time for Q&amp;A.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 GAAP results were in loss of $0.73 per share.
This includes special items of $1.53 per share of which $1.23 is related to our annual pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment and as a non-cash item.
This adjustment primarily reflects a 75 basis points decline in the discount rate and revise mortality assumptions used to measure our obligation.
Moving now to our fourth quarter operating earnings drivers consistent with the guidance we provided at EEI November the FirstEnergy consolidated effective tax rate was 21.6% in the fourth quarter of 2014 predominantly reflecting a tax benefit associated with the resolution of state tax position.
This drew a quarter-over-quarter benefit of $0.12 per share of which $0.10 was included in the corporate segment.
And our regulated utilities overall distribution deliveries decreased fourth quarter earnings $0.01 per share.
Total deliveries were down slightly primarily driven by milder weather which drove a 2.5% reduction in residential sales quarter-over-quarter.
Industrial sales were up 1.8% the sixth consecutive quarter of growth in that sector.
On the transmission side we’ve reported fourth quarter operating earnings of $0.14 per share in line with our expectations as we ramped up our Energizing the Future initiative.
At our competitive operations results came in slightly better than expected for the quarter.
Commodity margin was down $0.08 per share primarily due to lower contract sales that resulted from the change in retail strategy as well as mild weather.
These factors were partially offset by higher capacity revenues related to the increase in the auction clearing prices.
Let’s move to a short overview of some of the key earnings drivers for 2014 which included a 6% earnings improvement in our transmission segment year-over-year as we launched our Energizing the Future Initiatives.
On a competitive side of the business we experienced a year-over-year earnings decline of $0.51 per share due to the extreme weather events early in 2014 partially offset by the actions we put into place to reposition our sales portfolio and effectively hedge our generation by reducing weather sensitive loads.
Adjusted EBITDA was $653 million in line with our expectations.
At our regulated distribution utilities we’ve reported 2014 operating earnings of $1.93 per share in line with the midpoint of guidance we provided in November.
We saw the full benefit of the West Virginia asset transfer but also rising expenses for maintenance depreciation general taxes and interest without commensurate recovery in rates.
However as Chuck said new rates that we expect to be effective in 2015 will reset the base line for a majority of our utilities.
Distribution deliveries increased 1% compared to 2013 on both on actual and weather adjusted basis.
Industrial sales were up each quarter and ended the year up 2%.
At our corporate segment we benefited from multiple tax initiatives and ended the year with an effective income tax rate of 29.3%.
As we have previously discussed we anticipate an effective tax rate of approximately 37% to 38% in 2015.
Let’s now move to a discussion of some of the 2015 operating earnings guidance details.
On the regulated utility side which is where we believe most estimates did not fully account for the increases in ongoing expenses such as depreciation interest and taxes we expect a midpoint of $1.82 per share.
This includes new rigs in West Virginia which will effective this month and our expectation for new rates in Pennsylvania which would be effective in May based on the pending settlement.
For New Jersey we assumed revenues neutral to 2014 levels but included $0.08 per share for amortization of deferred storm cost for both 2011 and 2012 storms.
We expect moderate low growth in distribution sales of about 1%.
Commodity margin at our competitive operations is expected to increase by $0.44 per share in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to higher ATSI capacity prices.
For 2015 our committed sales currently are 67 million megawatt hours.
Our 2015 adjusted EBITDA for the competitive business has been revised to $875 million to $950 million a slight decrease from our previous range given the drop in power prices since November.
At our transmission segment this year we expect an uplift of $0.11 per share related to the implementation of forward-looking formula rates as requested in our FERC filing and high rate base at both ATSI and TrAIL.
An although FERC has initiated an enquiry related to our ATSI ROE we anticipate the range for that segment should accommodate the outcome of that process.
At corporate a combination of a more normal effective tax rate coupled with increase net financing cost is expected to reduce 2015 operating earnings by $0.42 per share in line with the drivers we provided at the EEI.
Last evening we published detailed information regarding our 2015 guidance on our fact book which is posted on our website.
With that I’d like open the call for you questions.
Okay.
As promised we have 35 minutes left for questions.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Neel.
Jim I had a question on the O&amp;M expense at the regulated utilities so it seems to go up $0.08 in 2015 and then in your drivers in 2016 it looks like its flat.
Was just wondering what’s causing the increase in 2015 and maybe what’s the normalized run rate on a percentage basis for increases going forward? Going forward Neel I would say our O&amp;M is going to be pretty much consistent with what we’re reflecting in 2015.
In 2015 we’re seeing some additional O&amp;M expenses associated with some of our rate filings and vegetation management mostly.
That would be the primary driver.
And vegetation management are big piece of it in light of the major storms that we saw we been spending a lot of money reclaiming our rights of ways and expanding our rights of ways which has been capital expense and we’re going to be shifting more into more typically four year trim cycle which is going to shift some of that back to O&amp;M.
Right.
So in 2016 it looks it shows its kind of neutral as I mean you expected to be flat or do you expect kind of a consistent percentage increases as 2014 or 2015 between 2015 and 2016? No.
In 2016 Neel we would expect that O&amp;M to be flat to 2015.
Okay great.
And then is there any kind of update on the timing of the higher PPAs as far as when we get a decision and whether that would be before RPM? Hi Neel this is Leila.
Yes.
So the procedural schedule slipped in Ohio little bit.
We may have FirstEnergy supplemental testimony being due in March 2 as well as intervener testimony and Staff testimony on March 27 and hearings on April 13.
Given that we’ve asked for – originally asked for an April 8 decision date obviously that is not going to happen.
But from our standpoint I still think we’re in a good place.
Originally we had asked for April 8 date to commit two things.
If you think about it from an FES perspective FES needs to know to whether they have this generation and how to hedge it.
So we need a reasonable period of time to allow FES to be put in to position to sell it.
And also with regard to the RMP auction.
I think given the schedule the way it is now we’re FES is going to have to bid those units in along with the rest of the competitive generation and it just kind of a missed opportunity for the utility side to do that.
But again I don’t think a critical thing.
it just would have been a nice to have kind of thing.
So that’s – it was respect to the schedule for us.
As you may AEP has a case dealing with the PPA coming up I understand decision will probably come out in the next two to three weeks or so and I’m hopeful that will bode well for decision in our case.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Hey good morning guys.
Chuck I think Jim hit it well that you prior lot of us in the industry were surprised by some the expense lines of the utility if you look at the earned ROEs for the jurisdictions how do you think those ROEs look in 2015 versus what you expect going forward meaning are you going to see improvement in ROEs beyond this year or we normalized at this ROE level? Well Dan here’s what I’d say obviously I think given fiscal policy in our country there is going to continue to be pressure on ROEs as long as interest rates stay low.
But absent regulatory action on our part I don’t see any way that those are going to change.
So once we get through Pennsylvania we’ll figure out where we end up with ATSI and we get through New Jersey.
I think we’re going to be in a pretty stable place there and I expect later this year when we do an Analyst Meeting that we’ll be able to give you little more transparency into what those ROEs are company by company other than we kind of did the rate making and kind of a black box type environment.
So hopefully we’ll give you more clarity on that later this summer.
Can I maybe ask that little clumsier than I meant to.
From an earned ROE perspective if you look at the different utilities and particularly with your rate cases having gotten resolved should the earned realized ROEs kind of level out at where you are expecting in 2015 guidance or do you look at things in 2016 and 2017 that could allow ROEs to improve? I would think they’re going to certainly level out at where we’re at in 2015 and I expect overtime there will be some modest improvement.
Okay and I guess here Jim on the operating expenses you know being higher on the utilities something that you expected the Pension/OPEB in depreciation expenses seem to stand out from our math can you just talk about what was underlying in some of those increases year-on-year and how we should think about those going forward? Yes let me start with the Pension/OPEB line Dan that’s primarily driven by the absence of a credit that is expiring over the 2014 2015 timeframe.
And then you have slightly higher pension expense associated with the mortality tables.
So that’s what drove the reduction in that line.
From a increase in what I would say the depreciation and property taxes when I look at distribution that’s pretty consistent year-over-year and if you look at 2013 to 2014 depreciation property taxes increased about $0.09 were showing about an $0.08 increase 2015 to 2016.
And when you think about it we’re spending about $1.4 billion $1.3 billion annually at our distribution company and we have about $650 million of depreciation so we’re spending more in our depreciation there so.
I would look for that type of a consistent increase in depreciation and property taxes.
From the transmission side we showed a increase in depreciation property taxes of about $0.03 2013 to 2014 and that was showing the ramp up of our Energizing the future program.
We spent $1.4 billion in capital; in 2014 we are expecting to spend just about $1 billion in 2015.
So that $0.11 increase in property tax is really associated with that increased capital and essentially the timing of when it goes into service.
Okay.
Just one last question just on the transmission side with the CapEx down this year versus last year I know that was part of the plan you laid out in the fall but because you have a lot of smaller projects what could motivate you guys that allow the opportunity fee you spend more money in 2015 than you’ve budgeted so far? I don’t think we’re going to spend more money in 2015 than we budgeted so wouldn’t want to leave you with that impression.
You know one of the critical aspects of that plan quite frankly is getting the workforce to be able to construct these projects and there is a constraint on that across our nation but we have locked in through a partnership with Quanta workforce that will be available to FirstEnergy well into the future and I think that it makes sense to just approach this in a kind of steady predictable fashion.
The drop off from 2014 to 2015 is due to the fact that we had a number of reliability projects that PJM ordered as a result of the late plant closings that were finishing up and putting in service early this year.
Great.
thank you guys.
Good morning sorry about that.
Can you hear me? Yes we can hear you Paul.
On the $0.30 per transmission that you guys are projecting for 2015 how much of that is in the [Indiscernible] Forward treatment that you guys are expecting? And just on that for a quarter as I recall my understanding was that they really hadn’t signed off on the Ford test-years treatment.
Correct me if I’m wrong I know the settlement discussions must be encouraged and I think they are still going on can you give us any flavour for that as well in this context of the Forward test-year stuff? This is Leila I’ll answer the latter part of the question first and then turn it back over to Jim.
So you are correct we are in the settlement of process associate with that there has been no set procedural schedule although if thing stay inline you might expect that decision in that case maybe late this year or slipping into the first quarter of the following year.
With regard to the rate they have not left the forward looking tester what they did is put the rate into effect subject to refund.
So January 1st we started it and I think the refund date was something like the 12th or 13th of January.
So that’s where it stands from a procedural schedule standpoint.
And Paul to your first question that $0.30 uptick in revenues there the majority of that would be associated with actually in the forward-looking test year.
Okay.
But you guys feels confident I guess I mean with respect to your settlement discussions and what have you about the forward test year treatment is that Leila that fair enough to say? I think if you look at past President at FERC I think the forward-looking test year part of it even though that is an issue that the party is raised is something that you know from my standpoint I feel very comfortable on I mean some of the other things they are looking at you know – Interveners allege is you know -- finding the system.
They are also looking at the protocols for true up.
So from my standpoint officially given how Chuck described what it is we’re doing and the reliability aspects of this I feel very comfortable where we are.
The one thing we have always highlighted is the rate of return and the fact that we thought that that would be an issue and not withstanding that we felt that appropriate to go in with the formula rate.
If you want to think about it every 100 basis points is about $16 million and so you know if you then look at past President you can do your own calculation with regard to that.
Okay great.
Paul I just want to point out I’m sure you understand this but because the 2014 expenditures were you know lagging rate mechanism and now the 2015 expenditures are in a forward-looking mechanism what you are seeing in terms of the shift in earnings from 2014 to 2015 really is two years worth of expenditures.
So that’s not the number that you are going to expect to see going forward.
Great.
Thanks for the clarity guys.
And then Chuck you mentioned in your remarks that you wanted I believe the merchant business to be more self sustaining and also that your thoughts of the market was at a very low price and – power prices and what have you in that it just being the wrong time to divest the business if that were the case.
And I guess the question that I have is A if your market outlook changed would you be willing to perhaps look at breaking off these companies if it were possible? And then just B what’s your appetite for additional investments perhaps and merchants just and in general how do you see the merchant arm of this business which is clearly very different than the rest of the business how do you see that strategically going forward do you see a possibility of a spin off or just in general how should we think about how you are really looking at this business and what you might do strategically to enhance value? So here’s how I am thinking about it.
And I have told several others who – asked this question I wanted to long time ago never say never and never say always.
So things can change but for now we’re looking at running that business in a mode where we remain cash flow positive where we used those market changes that are coming to take that cash and begin retiring some of the holding company debt that’s associated with that business and overtime put that business into a position where we can have more flexibility and how we look at it.
And then if you can tell me what the market’s going to be like in two years three years four years I think I could answer what I would do depending on what that market’s like.
But I don’t think anybody can tell us what that’s going to be.
So right now we’re hedged down we’re committed to running a cash flow positive and we are committed to de-risking it so that it doesn’t continue to be the conversation when 80% of our company is regulated and generating absent [ph] today and getting everybody kind of in line with where we are at generating consistent predictable regulated earnings so that’s the plan.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Hey Manny before we go move forward I intended [ph] to know when I was giving Dan an explanation on the increase as of depreciation year-over-year I said it increased 2016 versus 2015 I should have said 2015 versus 2014.
Thank you.
I wanted to go back again to the distribution earnings I mean we are clearly missing a piece here so you’ve just gone to rate cases in Pennsylvania and New Jersey and West Virginia.
You know what if your cost structure going into these rate cases you showed us what is the pre-tax impact of the rate case settlement or decisions and yet we have all of this $0.25 plus drag from higher cost on the distribution side shouldn’t that have been already reflected in the rate cases that you have gone through and also is this just an attempt to basically reset the base for future growth of this business and have fetched us just incremental on them [ph] spending that basically is not recurring? Angie yes this is Jim.
Some of the expenses that we had incurred was to prepare us for these rate filings that we had.
As I said earlier we would expect that our O&amp;M is going to held flat going into next year and we will be realizing the full impact of all of those rate filings next year.
As Chuck said earlier I would look at 2015 as our base line that we are going to start growing those distribution earnings from that point and you know we’ll be said that provide more clarity on that at the analyst day meeting that we have.
Okay but can you please give us a sense of this growth that other regulated utilities can offer.
I mean is this a meaningful step up starting in 2016 for distribution? For this point we are not giving any type of 2016 guidance but you know this is the base line that we would expect to start showing growth at our distribution utilities.
I don’t think we are going to put a percent out there yet until we fully understand what’s reflected in all of the regulatory outcomes and that we’re comfortable and confident that we’ll be able to deliver on that.
We’re got some work to do here we have a settlement but it hasn’t been approved by the PA regulators so I don’t think it’s fair for us to assume that we still got work to do in New Jersey and obviously we have a big case pending in Ohio.
Once all that settles out then I think we are in a better position to decide what’s our investment strategy going forward what’s our plan for each of those states going forward and that’s what we plan to tell you later this year once we get all those answers.
Okay thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Wanted to just follow up I think really on Paul’s question on the sort of market outlook you all are fairly physically close to a lot of the shale gas activity and we’re seeing a lot of development of shale gas.
I was – just have a high level interested in your market take in terms of what the growth in shale gas really means longer term for power prices what’s your expectations it sounds like from Chuck’s earlier comments that you are relatively bullish on power prices relative to the four I was just curious how you think about the dynamics from the shale gas that we are seeing being developed right around in your territory? Well first of all I’m not sure what I said to make you think I was bullish on forward curve power freight [ph] because that’s quite to the contrary.
I think as we look at the shale gas issue we have to look at it in a couple of different ways.
The first way is on those forward price curves and we actually had IHS in yesterday to talk to us about their views.
And I think you know for the foreseeable future we’re not expecting any significant uptick in those forward price curves so we are structuring our competitive business around those forwards as we know.
The other side of that coin is it’s the economic development engine that’s driving growth in our territory and over the next few years we expect to connect over a 1000 megawatts of new load directly attributed to the midstream part of that business you know there are discussions underway about upto three cracker plants in our region if any or all of those come to fruition I think those are the foundation for an industrial revolution in the part of the country that we serve.
So that’s the upside long term the reality in short term is we expect gas prices to stay fairly low.
There is some congestion in the gas markets that’s going on right now but there is also roughly $20 billion worth of gas transmission projects that are under construction and expected to go in service over the next few years that will release some of that congestion and eliminate some of the basis difference between our zone and the rest of the country.
And that might have a modest change but all in all we are planning to run our regulated business around the market forward as we see them today.
Okay great.
And just wanted to touch base on your hedging strategy given that they are repaying [ph] your seen in the market any changes in terms of your thinking in terms of the volume that you’d like to hedge or given what you said about sort of your market outlook any changes we should expect in terms of how you all think about hedging your generation fleet going forward? I would say no.
And what I said my prepared remarks was we’ve structured that business in a way where we are trying to expose risks to volatility as associated to weather and to kind of protect ourselves against an unplanned generator outage so we have the ability to generate 80 to 85 million megawatts hours a year.
We’re going to sell something less than that so that as the load fluctuates with weather our committed load fluctuates with weather and/or we have issues that any of our plants we have the ability to cover ourselves.
That will – I understand were likely giving up some earnings potential from that business by taking risk out of it but as I said earlier I’d rather make it more predictable more stable and get it out of the conversation as much as I can so we can talk about the type of company FirstEnergy really is which is a large regulated utility with 6 million customers.
That’s very clear.
And just lastly very briefly the – we’ve seen some relatively extreme weather through the winter time in general how has the fleet performed through this sort of this winter period that you are seeing have you been satisfied with the performance of the fleet and anything compared to sort of prior years in terms of performance trends.
I would say our fleet has performed very well the markets have not.
So had two units at the Bruce Mansfield plant that didn’t run for six days in the last two weeks because the LMP at those plants we couldn’t make money so we didn’t run out.
So but the plants are available they are running well our generation team has done an amazing job between last year and this year getting ready for this winter.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
Hi Julien Good morning Julien.
Congratulations again.
I really wanted to focus on the transmission side of the business specifically the guidance.
What are you guys assuming in terms of an earned ROE I know that may be awkward in the context of your pending case for ATSI but can you give us a sense of how much lag is embedded in that number and as you turn towards the forward test year and implementing that in kind of a run rate for 2016 what kind of improvement should we be thinking about there and what’s ultimately reflected in 2015 specifically? All right.
So I’m not sure if I got all of those I’m going to answer the first quesztin and then you can answer or ask them one at a time it will be easier for me to follow.
So but the first question on you know we get that question a lot of what are we assuming about ATSI’s rate of return going forward and here’s how I view this.
We just got first approval January 1st to move forward.
There are – there’s a case now that going to be had and there’s a settlement process that’s going to be had and my view is we’re going to go into those arguing like 12.38% it makes sense going forward and it’s stimulating the type of investment and reliability that I believe folks should want.
And that’s our going in position anything from there I give you a number then we are going to be negotiating from that number.
So we’re not going to give you a number we are going to go into those settlement that settlement process and we’re going to make the best case we can to make sure that we get the right return for our investors so that we can continue making these investments in the way that we are.
But from a regulatory lag perspective what are you assuming if you can talk to that.
Regulatory lay we are assuming forward-looking rights.
Okay.
So there’s not necessarily improvement next year as you have a full year or have you? No.
Got you.
And then in terms of the outlook for transmission CapEx how are you feeling about flowing dollars in the transmission versus distribution.
Can you kind of elaborate a little bit on where you see capital going in the future and then subsequently I know we’ve discussed this before on the distribution side what kinds of future investments do you see now that you’ve gone or about to go through all of the state utility rate case? So lets take transmission first.
We’ve told you about 4.2 billion over a four year period that was in the second year of it was 1.4 billion the first year it’s 900 and some million in the second year.
After two years we’ll be right on track to be halfway through that and for 2016 and 2017 that will be the number.
We have $15 billion worth of projects in addition to those that are in the four year plan that we can’t execute.
That hopefully albeit in a position that when we talk to you later this year to articulate kind of more of a long term strategy for transmission and what we are planning to do there.
But for the foreseeable future the numbers we’ve given you is what my plans are and I think one of the things that I have to start doing is saying what we are going to do and then doing what we say.
So I don’t expect any change in that over the next couple of years.
On the distribution front the rate cases in Pennsylvania are a huge step.
It rebases those utilities and it was a necessary step if we decide to make reliability improvement investments in Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania has a methodology that’s available to us called the disc that we can make investments but as I told you when you came in we got to get through these rate cases first and then we’ll make decisions there.
And in my prepared remarks I said once we get through the base rate case in New Jersey then I look forward to the certain amount of BTU and working together to figure out how we make JCP&amp;L stronger going forward.
In Ohio we have a DCR mechanism that we have been using to invest in those utilities.
So later this year I know you want numbers I’m not prepared to give you numbers today but later this year I think we can lay out a strategy of how much and where we plan to invest to start using our distribution utilities to improve service to customers and improve the picture for shareholders at the same time.
Got you.
And you are interested in using the disc mechanism to be clear in terms of… I think we will definitely look at it once we are done and then decide is that the best way and does it allow the right investments because more importantly to me is making the right investments that truly benefit customers.
And if that makes more sense to make them and just have traditional rate cases then we’ll go that way.
But to me we have to lay out what the plan is for customers first and make the right investments.
If that can be done under the disc then the disc would be a smart way to do it.
Great.
Thank you.
Hey good morning.
More of like I guess a long term view question or I guess earlier in your remarks you had said that you are not interested in selling the generation assets and I maybe paraphrasing just you thought that was kind of a departmental market but as I think three to five years if you are locking up the assets now in terms of the regulatory agreement aren’t you locking that in at these depressed prices and don’t – three to five years will not be able to benefit if there is a power price recovery? Well so let me opine a little bit on what’s going on in Ohio and you know I am of the belief that long term those states that remained fully regulated when you have the opted—the ability to optimize between generation transmission and distribution you are going to serve customers best.
Some of our states chose to go to competitive markets.
This whole discussion in Ohio is around whether or not we trust regulators better to look out for the long term interest of customers or whether we trust markets better to look out for the long term interest of the customers.
Those states that are net importers of generation end up with the highest cost and don’t have the ability to optimize between those three segments so if the PPA is successful we’re basically taking those plants and turning it over to the regulators to regulate them again.
They will have a chance to look at how we run them to look at the prudency of our expenses but we are saying I think we trust the regulator to look out for a future Ohio more than we do the markets today.
Great.
thanks for taking my question.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just wanted to thank Tony for his leadership during the very very hard period and I wanted to congratulate you on your taking over the responsibility of the new position.
Thank you.
Well thank you.
And I’m sure Tony does too and I’m sure he’s listening.
We don’t have a microphone in front of him but I’m sure he is listening this morning.
Just I think you made a comment about 100 basis point of ROE at actually was it $16 million of net income? That was a comment I made and pre-tax yes.
Pre-tax okay.
And then I know you are not going to give a growth rate but given the moving pieces we have with the timing of Pennsylvania rates coming in and New Jersey do you think 2016 will be a step up from 2015 at the on the regulated side obviously competitive is going to be very well… Well 2015 only includes seven twelfths of what Pennsylvania is worth so in 2016 it will be a full years worth of treatment and then beyond that we need to see where we land in New Jersey and Ohio.
And what was your assumption as far as New Jersey in guidance? Yes what we assumed in the guidance Paul was that it would be revenue neutral and that there would be $0.08 of storm caused amortization associated with the 2011 and 2012 storms.
Effective one is that going to bleed into 2016 as well? That would be effective March 1st so you might have just slightly higher amortization year-over-year.
Any sense of when you are going to hold your Analyst Day? Not yet.
Okay thank you very much… It will be after we have a decision in Ohio a decision in New Jersey a decision hopefully on ATSI and then we’ll go from there.
Okay thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
About a year ago the management team had expressed a possible interest in looking at the REIT structure for transmission growth opportunities and given now that there is an entity out there that’s you can see what the cost of capital is like just wanted to see if you could give us an updated sense of that and Chuck also any comments you have there on your perspective? I’m not sure.
We are always looking at any option that’s out there but I’m not sure that we saw at that time or see today any real benefit to a REIT for our company.
Our company is a little complex in terms of we’ve got transmission that’s inside utilities transmission that’s inside the ATSI transmission that’s inside TrAILCo the transmission that’s inside ATSI the real estate is owned by the utilities and I just think it’s a distraction that would take a lot of time and effort of the management team to figure out that we don’t need to be looking at right now because it doesn’t provide any significant long term financial advantage for us.
That’s very clear.
And then just one additional question you had mentioned in your prepared comments PJM West plant plant box and some plants appear to be a little bit more struggling here.
Is the primary criteria that you are thinking about cash flow accretion it seemed to be that you are leaning towards trying to get the merchant generation business to be cash flow positive so is that really the criteria that we should be thinking from a plant perspective here? So we have the merchant generation business cash flow positive for the next four years at market forwards as we know them and with capacity as we know it.
So that’s not our goal that’s where we are at.
As we see the changes that are happening with the capacity market reforms that’s going to be additive.
We’ve put ourselves in a position with our generating fleet that we’re not forced to generate because we have load committements.
We’ve got a significant amount of our generation that’s going to be market driven generation.
That gives us the ability like I said two weeks ago to say if Mansfield is not in the money we’re not going to run it and loose money.
So we’re going to optimize it and that optimization is something that we’re going to do day in day out.
We’re going to do day in kind of more as we look at any options on the retail side as new customer opportunities present themselves but the goal is is cash flow positive and were there.
And then beyond that we want to obviously drive it more cash flow positive so that we can start getting additional flexibility in that part of our business down the road.
Thank you very much.
Manny we have time for one more question.
Hey guys thanks guys for taking my call this late in the hour.
Just thinking about the balance sheet and capital structure you guys did a really good job year and a half or so ago of reducing the debt levels at the competitive business.
You narrow in a position where you’ve got a lot of debt at the holding company level and a lot of it is short term or floating rate many economist would argue that short term debt is probably at its all time lows and that directionally short term debt is likely heading high up.
Do you have any thoughts in terms of how you can deal with the significant amount of short term debt that’s on the balance sheet meaning whether you would turn [ph] it out and therefore kind of lock in a long term interest rate for that and kind of give yourself some multiyear certainty of that or would you potentially pay it off and if so where – how would you where would you receive the proceeds or how would you generate the proceeds to pay down some debt? Michael at this point I think we need to see how a number of these initiatives play out.
If you think about the PPA in Ohio finalizing the rate cases the potential for the capacity performance product I think that will give us a much clear sense of what our cash projections will be going forward.
At this point we have no plans to term out any of the long term debt that’s sitting at the Holdco.
I do agree with you that we are carrying more debt at that level than either Chuck and I are comfortable with but as we lay out our long term plan going forward it will be our intention to strengthen the balance sheet and with that reducing some of that debt at the holding company but at this point I cannot give you a specific plan to do that until we know some of the outcomes of these major initiatives.
Got it.
Thanks Jim and Chuck congratulations.
Thanks Mike.
Okay well I’d like to thank you all for your continued support of FirstEnergy and I think you know our goal today was to give you a clear and transparent view of our company and to build the foundation for our growth strategy that we will lay out in more detail this year at the analyst meeting.
I’m proud to have the opportunity to take over for Tony.
I am proud of our employees at FirstEnergy because I truly believe that’s what makes our company strong and I’m thankful for our six million customers and obviously all of our investors.
Take care everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings.
And welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like now turn the conference over to your host Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you Ms.
Beringer.
You may now begin.
Thank you Kevin.
Welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Today we will make various forward-looking statements regarding revenues earnings performance strategies and prospects.
These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those indicated by such statements can be found on the Investors section of our website under Earnings Information link and in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are also available on our website.
Participating in today’s call are Chuck Jones President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jason Petrik our Corporate Assistant Controller; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Chuck Jones.
Thanks Meghan and good morning everyone.
It’s a pleasure to speak with you today.
We had a good quarter and we are off to a great start for the year.
Since our last call in February we have continued our work to position FirstEnergy for solid predictable and customer service driven regulated growth.
This morning we will talk about our progress on those strategies.
We will also discuss other key initiatives including an important effort that is underway to reduce our cost structure and drive improvements to our balance sheet and of course we will review our first quarter financial results and operational performance.
Similar to our last call we intend to keep these prepared remarks brief to allow ample time for your questions before the end of the hour.
Our first quarter operating earnings of $0.62 per share are slightly above the top end of our guidance range and give us a solid foundation to start the year.
We benefited from the growth in our transmission business and solid distribution performance that was assisted by a second year of unusually cold weather.
Our year-over-year results also reflect the actions we began taking in the second quarter of 2014 to reposition the retail sales portfolio in our competitive business.
For the past year we have talked about the extreme weather events of 2014 first quarter and the impact those conditions had on our competitive business and our strategy.
The first quarter 2015 was even colder with heating degree days totaling 21% above normal and 2% higher than 2014.
The PJM market also set a new winter peak of 144 000 megawatts exceeding the previous winter peak which was set in January of 2014.
In our competitive business however the difference in our results between this winter and last is striking.
This improvement speaks to the benefits of our more conservative strategy which includes three major components.
First selling no more than we produce in order to maintain an open position of at least 10 million to 20 million megawatt hours annually to protect against extreme weather unplanned outages or a combination of both.
As a result of our actions to strategically reduce load obligations our 2015 retail and polar obligations are expected to be about 68 million megawatt hours compared to 99 million megawatt hours in 2014.
Second reducing exposure to weather sensitive load from January of 2014 through March of 2015 our overall retail obligations are down nearly 35% on an annualized basis with much of that coming from serving fewer of the most weather sensitive residential and small commercial customers and finally a more rigorous commitment to economically dispatching our units.
This strategy together with improved plant operations helped to mitigate the potential downside from this year’s severe first quarter weather and demand conditions even though our region experienced four more below zero days this February than last January.
As contracts continued to roll-off we expect a further decrease in our annualized retail load obligations through the end of this year a much of that decline will be associated with the most weather sensitive load.
As I’ve mentioned to many of you previously we recognize that reducing risk in the business also means that we are likely giving up some earnings potential but as we have said our objective is to make the competitive business more stable as we focus our efforts on growth in the regulated businesses.
In that regard the last few months have been a busy period for our energizing the future transmission investment program.
We are nearing completion of projects that are designed to maintain service reliability in the wake of plant deactivations in Northern Ohio.
Those plants ceased operations for good on April 15th.
These projects included the Bruce Mansfield-Glenwillow project a 195 345 kilovolt transmission line extending on 119 miles from Western Pennsylvania to Suburban Cleveland scheduled to go in service by June 1.
In addition we are preparing to energize new 345 kilovolt substation and associated transmission upgrades in Wood Trumbull and Stark counties which are designed to maintain service rollout reliability in Northern Ohio after the plants are closed.
We also continued our work to strengthen the grid to help protect it from storms and make network and physical security upgrades.
Finally we're on track with our planned investments on projects that will support the midstream gas operations with about 365 million in the pipeline through 2019.
On the regulatory front our rate cases in New Jersey and Pennsylvania have concluded.
In Pennsylvania we were pleased that the PUC accepted our rate plan settlements for each of our four utilities in the state.
The new rates which will be effective on Sunday will help our operating companies continue to enhance reliability and service to our Pennsylvania customers.
We are looking at further options for customer focus investments going forward including the option to possibly request a distribution system improvement charge to recover the cost of those investments.
In New Jersey we received recovery of approximately $580 million in costs incurred by JCP&amp;L for the 2012 storms and we're glad to have a long process and uncertainty behind us.
Now we look forward to working with the BPU as we set a course for future infrastructure and reliability investments at JCP&amp;L.
We've had a good and productive start to the year and we are making solid progress toward our long-term goals.
Looking forward there are still three major initiatives underway that will ultimately help shape our company and our strategies going forward.
First in Ohio the hearing on our electric security plan has been delayed by 60 days and is scheduled to begin on June 15th.
As you know in its recent decision on the AEP and Duke cases the PUC ruled that stability writers related to purchase power agreements similar to our proposal are legal in Ohio.
This was an extremely significant outcome.
We believe that our filing includes a robust case for how our proposal benefits utility customers and supports economic development in the state.
On May 4th we expect to file supplemental testimony to further demonstrate how our plan meets the factors outlined in the AEP and Duke cases.
While we're comfortable with the new schedule set by the PUCO this schedule will affect the timing of our analyst meeting which we had hoped to have this summer.
We believe that it makes sense to host this meeting after we receive a decision in Ohio which pushes us to sometime late this year.
The second open [merit] [ph] t could have a significant impact on our business is the PJM capacity performance proposal.
PJM has addressed FERC’s question into the structure of the product.
Pending its final decision FERC granted PJM's requested waiver to delay the May capacity auction to no later than the week of August 10th.
We appreciate the care and long-term perspective that FERC is taking in its review of this important mechanism and expected both PJM and FERC are interested in reaching a resolution as soon as possible.
In both of these matters we look forward to a final outcome that produces better clarity for our company and produces benefits for electric consumers in our region.
On a related item as you know we had delayed our decision to construct a new dewatering facility for our 2400 megawatt Bruce Mansfield plant in Pennsylvania while we evaluated the plant’s future particularly with respect to the results of the next capacity auction.
We will continue to monitor market conditions but given the current environment including the auction delay we think it makes sense to move forward with some early aspects of this project.
This work is designed to preserve our ability to continue operations of the plant after December 31 2016.
All costs associated with this project are in our current business plan.
We of course intend to remain sharply focused on those things we can control including our own spending on goods and services operating expenses and other corporate spending as well as capital expenditures.
Last month we launched a cash flow improvement project intending to capture both a mediate and long-term savings opportunities that are meaningful and sustainable.
A team led by FES President Donny Schneider is working to identify savings and process improvements across the company with a particular emphasis on our generation business.
The team is focused on expense reductions capital expenditures and inventory.
We are also working with an outside consultant to examine the significant savings potential in our supply chain.
With more than $2.5 billion in annual spending in the project scope we believe that significant cost savings opportunities are available while continuing to successfully serve the needs of our organization customers and employees.
I will note that workforce and benefit reductions are not included in the scope of the project.
In all we are targeting $50 million in savings this year and an additional $150 million in 2016 reaching a run rate of $200 million by 2017.
We expect that the savings will be split about evenly between O&amp;M expenses and capital expenditures and help us create sustainable levels for the future.
By appropriately addressing our cost structure we can help direct our future and move FirstEnergy to a point that our fundamental operations make the company stronger while improving the balance sheet over time.
We’re off to a solid start in 2015.
Our early financial results together with our progress on our strategic initiatives are building a solid foundation for the year and for the future of our company.
These results in our outlook for the remainder of the year continue to support 2015 operating guidance in the range of $2.40 to $2.70 per share.
Consistent with the leadership philosophy I have shared with many of you I would like to narrow the gap between our GAAP and non-GAAP results.
While some differences are expected we are diligently focused on earnings quality.
Now we will turn the call over to Jim for brief review of our first quarter financial results then we’ll open the call to your question.
Thanks Chuck and good morning everyone.
Consistent with our approach in the last call I will use my time today to speak to the major drivers and events of the first quarter.
This information is detailed in our consolidated report which is posted to our website and we would be happy to address any specific questions in the Q&amp;A or after the call.
As Chuck said this morning we reported strong 2015 first quarter operating earnings of $0.62 per share which compares to $0.39 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
On a GAAP basis basic and diluted earnings for the first quarter of 2015 were $0.53 per share compared to 2014 first quarter basic earnings of $0.50 per share or $0.49 per share on a diluted basis.
We’re off to a good start for the year.
First quarter 2015 operating earnings were fairly plain and simple.
As expected we benefited from improvements in our competitive business as well as increased transmission revenue which were partially offset by a higher effective income tax rate in our corporate segment.
From the standpoint of our first quarter guidance we came in above the range we provided largely due to the impact on our distribution business of extremely cold weather in late February and March.
Compared to the normal weather that we include in our guidance first quarter wires revenue benefited by $0.06 per share as a result of heating degree days that were 21% above normal during the period.
This was offset by about $0.03 per share related to weather impacts at our competitive business.
First quarter operating earnings also benefited by a net $0.03 per share compared to guidance primarily as a result of the New Jersey storm amortization delay and incremental revenue from a TrAIL transmission investment.
Overall distribution deliveries increased slightly compared to last year reflecting weather as well as modest growth in our customer base offset by the impact of lower average customer use associated with energy efficiency.
Residential sales were flat compared to the first quarter of 2014 but down 1.7% on a weather adjusted basis while both actual and weather adjusted commercial sales increased slightly.
Industrial sales were also up slightly marking the seventh consecutive quarter of growth in that sector.
While soft natural gas prices are deterring some new entrants into the shale gas fields our conservative estimates continue to support more than 1000 megawatts of new load for midstream businesses through 2019.
The shale slowdown contributed the softer first quarter demand from the steel sector however most of the other key sectors on our region remains solid.
In our transmission business first quarter operating earnings were $0.17 per share reflecting incremental rate base growth at both ATSI and TrAIL and forward looking rates at ATSI beginning January 1st this year partially offset by higher depreciation taxes and interest expense.
As Chuck described our competitive business was able to more effectively navigate this year's extreme weather conditions due to the changes we began putting in place during the second quarter of last year.
Our 2015 first quarter operating results in this business reflect the benefits of this repositioning and improved plant availability as well as higher capacity revenues.
For 2015 our committed sales currently are about 70 million megawatt-hours.
Essentially having sold everything we anticipated on a retail and forward wholesale basis with over 8 million megawatt-hours available for spot wholesale sales over the remainder of the year.
For 2015 we are also reducing our generation production estimate from about 79 million megawatt-hours down to about 72 million megawatt-hours due to the economic and market conditions we experienced during the first quarter and the market price outlook for the balance of 2015.
If it is more economic for us to purchase power from the market to serve low when needed we will do so.
But we have the benefit of our own generating resources if and when we need to call on them.
Ultimately market conditions will determine how much we generate from the fleet and how much we purchase.
Essentially we will source the power to meet our retail load obligations as economically as possible.
For 2016 approximately 70% of our projected sales are committed.
Based on our results for the first quarter we are reaffirming our 2015 adjusted EBITDA arrange for the competitive business of $875 million to $950 million as well as our 2016 adjusted EBITDA range of $750 million to $850 million.
Consistent with the guidance we provided earlier this year the corporate consolidated effective tax rate was 38.8% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to 30.3% in the first quarter of 2014.
This change drove an $0.08 per share decrease in the corporate segment compared to last year and reflects the elimination of certain future tax liabilities associated with basis differences in the first quarter of 2014.
This year is off to a solid start and we are executing our plans to improve our company's fundamentals and drive long-term shareholder value through customer focus regulated growth.
As Chuck said we are reaffirming our 2015 guidance range of $2.40 to $2.70 per share and are also providing a second quarter operating earnings range of $0.42 to $0.50 per share.
With that I'd like to open the call for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Dan Eggers from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Dan.
Good morning.
Just following up on the cost cutting plan thanks to the additional detail.
But could we maybe dig a little bit more into where you are seeing those buckets of savings maybe between regulated non-regulated and kind of the scaling of those opportunities as you get further into the plan? Well.
Dan let me say it this way.
I think I said in my remarks that we are going to be focused primarily on the generation business.
We are going to look at everything.
The reason that the scope is excited about $2.5 billion dollars is because there are certain buckets of expenditures that would be counterproductive to our regulated growth strategy to go and try to address those.
For example our transmission expansion plan.
So we're focusing primarily on generation.
We are very cognizant of the fact that we don't want to do anything to take the growth strategy in our regulated companies off-track.
And if we were to think about what that does to inflation are these -- what is the underlying O&amp;M inflation going to be your net of these savings? Is that the right way to think about kind of forward? I'm not sure I understand your question.
So I guess if you think about are these savings going to be net reductions in O&amp;M year-by-year or is there a level of inflation that will eat up some of the savings as we think about ’16 ’17 ‘18 numbers? Well I think that initially this is going to be a step down in our cost structure.
And like any business over time there are incremental adjustments that are made as we offer our employee wage increases as there are inflationary things that go on in the economy.
But one thing to keep in mind is we have not included staffing in this phase of what we're doing.
We will have annually about a thousand employee attritions each year.
And going forward we expect to make adjustments in the structure of our organization such that those attritions should pretty much offset any inflationary pressures that are on where we are at when this project’s done.
Okay.
And I guess one other topic.
With the Supreme Court hopefully addressing the 745 case on Monday can you just talk about what the process would be from a legal perspective for you guys if the Supreme Court takes the case or if they choose not to take the case? Leila can.
Okay.
So if they choose to take the case then I would expect folks to continue to drive capacity performance.
They've already rejected its premature PJM’s attempt to modify the DR process.
So it would continue as a supply product as it has in the past and wait for some final determination from the Supreme Court substantive determination with regard to demand response.
If they decide to not take the case I can speak to what in theory should happen.
In theory what should happen demand response should come out of the capacity auction as a supply product.
From our standpoint we believe there is a place for a demand response.
We believe that that is on the side of state implementation plans and we think going forward that would be a useful product and can still be maintained.
With regard to how PJM views it we know they view that as a very valuable product.
So I would imagine at a practical level PJM will be seeking to somehow reinclude demand response within the capacity auction.
Is it going to be practical if they don’t take the case and they have to go to this removal of DR? A is a practical that it can be reasonably well addressed for this upcoming auction and then what is your view on whether retroactively prior auctions need to be adjusted? So we still have our case out there that had challenged the prior base residual auction.
Work has been -- has put them on the backburner has not addressed that.
I would anticipate they are going to need to do something with regard to that too.
So with regard to that auction anyway there is some question as to what would happen and whether it would be appropriate in our view to take demand response out take out the price suppression effects associated with demand response and not rerun the auction but just remove the effects of demand response.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Brian Chin from Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Hi Brian.
With the cost cut commentary today does that preclude now the need to issue equity for the foreseeable future particularly given some of the FFO to debt metrics that some of the credit rating agencies are looking at? Here's what I've said on that topic.
All along I believe that it's incumbent on us to find a way to fundamentally operate our company in a way to where we don't have to use equity to strengthen our balance sheet.
I think these cost cutting initiatives will get us to a place where we can be successful in not having to do.
Then going forward I think where equity should be used is words intended to be used in our business and that is to generate growth in our business.
So we may look at equity down the road to use for growth either an additional transmission investment or potentially even investment inside the distribution companies.
But I believe we can get ourselves to a position where the cost cutting puts us at the bottom end of the range that we need to be.
And from a credit metrics perspective and then these costs over time we will continue to improve the balance sheet.
Great.
And also of the cost cuts and cash flow improvements I think you said a $100 million of this was expenses and the remainder is cash flow improvements.
Can you talk about on the cash flow side how much of that is just timing related as opposed to permanent reductions or permanent improvements in cash flow I should say? I don't think we can even talk about that right now.
We just kicked this team off a few weeks back.
We were in the early stages of it.
I think when we get to this point at the end of the second quarter I think I will be in a good position to tell you more concretely what we've identified and what the ongoing impact on our company is going to be.
Okay.
And then last point then I'll jump back.
The cost cuts that you’ve got there embedded in the current EBITDA guidance I thought I heard you say that but I just want to confirm.
No they are not.
They are not.
They are targets at this point.
Once we know what they are then we will embed them in our going forward forecast that we give you.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Steve Fleishman from Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
First the question on you mentioned the supplemental testimony you’re going to file on Monday I guess.
Could you just give us a little sense more color on what areas you might be focusing on with that? Hi Steve.
This is Leila.
We will be addressing the factors that the Commission laid out in the APKs while we think our underlying case actually did cover all of those.
Since the Commission gave us an opportunity to supplement our testimony we are availing ourselves of that.
So just if you think about them they were financials need supply diversity comply with environmental regulations jobs economic development and then kind of going down the lift.
So we will be supplementing our testimony in all those regards.
Okay.
Thanks.
Separate question just to clarify something on the equity issuance question before.
So to degree that you would look at equity funds for growth investment would that only be for investment that goes beyond your current capital plan or could it be fund investment that’s already in your current capital plan? Well Steve I think we need to see where we end up with this initiative first and foremost and where that leaves us in terms of free cash flow once that’s done.
But I would say my goal is to use equity for new growth on top of the growth that we've already communicated to you.
Okay.
Good.
And then last question just in terms of the transmission my recollection is that you’re going to be reserving for kind of -- some kind of ROE adjustment in transmission.
And I don’t know if there is anything color you can give on what you’re assuming there after something in your Q or something on that? So here is what I would say on that we have been approved for a forward-looking formula rate at 12.38%.
We are doing what we believe is prudent to go forward but I think we’re approaching those negotiations in the settlement process from that perspective.
And for me to give you anything else I think we’re negotiating against ourselves at this point and I'm not prepared to do that.
So we'll see where this process unfolds but I think FERC approved us at 12.38% and we’re going to negotiate from there.
Okay but you’re reserving something? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Neel Mitra from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Hi Neel.
Good morning.
First question on JCP&amp;L now that you have the rate case resolved obviously it was off of a 2011 test year.
So you’re not getting up to that authorized ROE how soon could you refile to try to get the liabilities between authorized and earned? Hi Neel.
Actually from the rate order we are required to file the rate case by April 2017 but as we always do we continue to look at that and I might expect to filing even sooner than that timeframe.
But one of the things we want to do here is we haven’t really been able to sit down and talk with the BPU commissioners for almost three years now.
And the President and I have talked and we are going to get together and talk about the future of JCP&amp;L together before we get to a point where then we can’t talk again.
So that’s the game plan.
Great.
And then Jim I wanted to go back to your comments about possibly reducing the amount of terawatt hours that comes out of the fleet in 2015 and I'm not sure if it was 2016 as well.
In 2015 would it be a margin benefit just because you’re purchasing power at cheaper cost and generating or the actual kilowatt hours coming down for stuff that you haven’t hedged and does that also affect 2016 as well? Neel what we’re looking at is it would be a margin benefit because we would be looking at buying power cheaper than what we would produce it at.
So would be for the hedge portion I guess in 2015 what about 2016? Yes.
Have you commented on kilowatt hours generation for that.
Yeah.
We have that broken out in the fact book Neel.
I don’t have the exact number right of the top of my head.
But yeah we would have it out there.
But in 2016 we’re going to look at running in and dispatching the plans no differently than we are right now if it’s cheaper to buy from the market that’s what we will do.
Great.
And then just generally speaking as far as some investment for the super supercritical to be CP compliance.
Is there any general color you can give us as to how your fleet is positioned going into the auction in hopefully August? Well I think we need to see first where FERC and PJM land in terms of a capacity performance product being in the auction.
Then we need to sit down and take a look at how are we going to approach that auction from a bidding strategy.
Then we need to see what units clear and at what price they clear and then from there we’ll decide what the appropriate investment in our unit is to make sure that they’re available when they need to be.
So there are a lot of unanswered questions and there’s a lot of competitive implications around how we’re going to approach to that I prefer not to get into the details.
So but we understand that there is the potential that we may want to do some additional investment in our fleet but that all depends on where these rules shake out and where the market ultimately clears that.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Hey Julien.
Hey so just following-up with little clarity on New Jersey.
Does it necessarily need to be a rate case for say in the medium term? Specifically what I’m curious about is is there any potential for like a stimulus like program like we’ve seen at some of the peers in New Jersey versus or in conjunction with the rate case? Well as I said we haven’t had a chance to really have meaningful dialogue with the BPU for three years.
We’re going to go over there and have meaningful dialogue.
Once we have that I’ll be able to answer that question a little better.
It's an option that we would obviously be willing to consider it if they willing to consider it.
And then with regard to the disk in Pennsylvania you’ve been parting with the idea for a while.
What do you need to see happen there or what’s the ambiguity or [ambigulance] [ph] in pursuing that structure? Well I wouldn’t say we’ve been flirting with it.
We had a major hurdle we had to get through which is the base rate cases for all of those companies which we are now through.
And now what I've done is I've asked our energy delivery team to look at what investments make sense for customers inside those operating companies.
And I’ve pretty consistently said I’m going to go invest money where it make sense for customers.
So until we see exactly company by company what the needs are to drive reliability improvement and improve customer service I can’t answer that.
I think I've said that we could spend up to about $440 million in Pennsylvania and stay under the 5% cap.
I don't see it’s going anywhere near that number in the first disk filing that we would make if we make one.
But we’re putting that business case together right now.
Excellent.
And then finally on the GenCo real quickly.
In light of the latest trend of cost cuts are you still generally targeting a cash flow breakeven outlook for that company? Is that kind of the right way to think about it at a high level? Well that business… …cost cut to get you there.
That business is cash flow positive for the next four years without any of these cash flow improvements.
So anything that we accomplish is going to make it more cash flow positive and its going to make FirstEnergy more -- improve FirstEnergy's overall cash flow and that what we’re trying to accomplish.
So we’re already cash flow positive for that business for the next four years.
Great.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Just looking -- just going over a few of these questions.
I’m afraid I was a little bit but completely clear on.
When I look at the fact book and we talked about it it was Neel’s question on the generation output.
I don’t see any significant change post 2015 in terms of you guy’s expectation.
And I just wanted to make sure I understood this correctly.
I mean do you guys because of what’s happened with the power prices and the forward groups do you see any change in what your output might be? I just want to just make sure I understand.
Yeah.
Paul this is Donny.
Yeah.
From 2016 with the forwards that are out there we’re still projecting no change to what we’ve shown in previous fact books.
The fact of the matter is at today’s forwards we’re kind of right on the edge.
And so almost literally a dollar change in the forwards would move whether we dispatch a unit or we don’t dispatch a unit.
But for now what we’re seeing in ‘16 is that our units will run as we’ve forecasted previously.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for clarity.
And then also on I think Dan’s question on as for the FERC.
Leila you said that if Supreme Court did take up the auction I think you said that -- take up the case excuse me that you wouldn’t seek to rerun the auction but you would want to take out the effects.
Could you elaborate a little bit more on that? Are you seeing that you just have the auction reprised or what do you actually mean by that? No.
I don’t think they misunderstood what I said.
What FERC has done PJM came to FERC and asked to consider DR on the demand side of the equation and FERC told them they were pretty mature in that.
So the Supreme Court takes up the case.
The chance exist that demand response might still be under FERC jurisdiction.
And I think that what FERC was looking at.
So right now the way it would I think play out is demand response would be in the BRA auction when it’s held presumably in the middle of August.
And would be a supply side item as it has been in the past.
Okay.
But if it wasn’t in the -- if the Supreme Court did not take it out would you seek to have the previous auction? I think you suggested that the previous auction you want to … Boomerang.
What do you mean by not having the auctions rerun but having them the effect taken out it think it’s the way I understand it to be? Right.
So flashing back to last year when we held the BRA and we filed the complaint with FERC what we suggested was if demand response is not under FERC jurisdiction than what the remedy should be is just to remove demand or response from the supply side and then you can still stack up from how the auction was.
What would’ve happened if demand was not been taken but other generators would’ve been taken.
So you take out price suppression effect but you don’t have to -- nobody has to rebid everything back into the auction.
Okay.
I see.
Okay.
Thanks so much for that.
And then on JCP&amp;L there is this review that's going on that I think they are trying to do some audit or something which is little unusual since you just had your proceedings.
But they themselves are seeking to review you guys.
Could you talk about that and how that relates to the potential for? I mean could you just address that I guess and what you think about that in this whole idea about the lag and everything else that you talked about? Well first of all I would say this we are not afraid of any audit of JCP&amp;L’s operations I'm confident that that when they do this review they are going to see a JCP&amp;L that is much different than the JCP&amp;L they saw the last time that they did a review.
The reason for it is as a result of the 2011 and 2012 storms.
There were reliability issues that kind of crept in to the rate case and there was no adequate mechanism within the rate case to deal with the reliability issues.
So coming out of the rate case this is a way that kind of put those reliability issues behind us and position us as I said where we can now work with the BPU to move forward together.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Your had a great quarter with respect to transmission.
I just wonder appreciating that you don't want to negotiate with yourself during the settlement proceedings but I believe this was the first quarter you got forward rate making mechanism at TrAIL TrAILCo.
Can you separate that out the $0.09? I mean how much was due to the forward mechanism and how much was due to fact that you’ve been very busy with CapEx the past year? First off it’s ATSI that we filed further not TrAIL.
Okay.
And as a result of those filing what you are essentially seeing is the investments that we made in 2014 were made in a kind of the old formula rate.
So for the first quarter of this year you are seeing kind of a compound impact of everything that we invested in ‘14 because the rate went into effect as well as the first quarter investments that we’ve made.
So in those overall results the difference between a 12.38% return in any other subsequent return that we might end up at is minimal and that's why we say we reserved a small amount but we are moving forward with a 12.38% return until somebody tells that it’s a different return.
And I believe there is a very strong case to be made that if there is a different return it should be different going forward from the point where there’s a settlement not reverse so.
Okay.
So the settlement negotiations are really over the ROE not over the forward rate making mechanism correct? This is Leila.
We really can’t comment on what’s being discussed in the settlement.
But I think given the position of ROE in the grand scheme of things you can derive your own conclusions with regard to that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ashar Khan from Visium.
Please proceed with your question.
First of all great results and my questions have been answered.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Real quick and this one maybe more for Jim.
Just looking at the short-term debt balances seem that those went up a little bit.
What’s your plan in terms of whether you’ll maintain that short-term debt balance outstanding for a good while or whether you have the capability to pay it down or will you think about either terming it out or doing something else with it to reduce long-term interest rate exposure? We wait to see where we come out on these initiatives as Chuck talked about Michael.
We have some significant opportunity in the cash flow improvement project that Chuck talked and then a couple of the other big items that we are still looking at the capacity performance and the PPA.
We don't have any plans right now to term any of that debt out.
We will continue to look at it.
The first quarter’s a little bit unusual from cash flow output.
We generally prepay our Pennsylvania gross receipts tax.
That's about a $177 million.
We had a pension contribution that we made in the first quarter.
Ohio property taxes are due in the first and third quarter and generally our benefit plans perhaps are in the first quarter.
So it’s a bit of an abnormal.
I would expect that over the rest of the year we would not see that balance to grow.
In fact we may reduce that somewhat.
But we will continue to look at whether it makes sense to terminate it out.
I would prefer as time goes on to push that further down into the business units have the debt closer to the asset.
But I think we’ve got to wait to see where we come out on some of these initiatives before we make that final decision.
Got it.
Thank you Jim.
Much appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Hugh Wynne from Bernstein Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
I just wanted to congratulate you and encourage you on this effort to improve quality of earnings.
And I wanted to ask question regarding that.
One of the distinct aspects of your operating earnings presentation as I understand it correct me if I’m wrong is that unlike your GAAP earnings where the difference between expected returns on pension assets and realized returns on pension assets is recognized every year in the fourth quarter.
In operating earnings there’s actually no recognition of that difference.
And I estimate that over the last five years that difference of expected returns over actual returns on pension assets has been something like $570 million which works out to an average of about a $115 million a year or $0.27 a share.
So I was -- my question then is are you thinking of ways in which you could perhaps reflect more accurately in operating earnings the outcome of your pension investments? Hugh we made that decision a number of years ago to record any changes in actuarial assumptions on a mark-to-market basis.
In our ongoing operating results we have all of the service costs in there and then just any changes in the actuarial assumptions.
And the biggest piece of that is generally the change in the discount rate which has fallen over the last few years.
So we have no intention of changing the way we report our pension and our operating earnings going forward.
But we fully break that out and much you know what the discount rate and the actual return on the assets.
Got it.
Thanks.
Thanks you.
Our next question today is coming from with [Paul Fremont from Nexus] [ph].
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you very much.
Really two things.
One can you give us any type of update on potential discussion that you are having in Ohio.
I think at one point you had mentioned that some other parties have expressed an interest in talking to you subsequent to the AP decision? Well I would say that we’re always in discussions with the parties that are intervening.
And we’re not in discussions with the commission because we can't be.
And when we have something to tell you we’ll tell you.
And then I guess the other question is half of the $2.6 billion I think represented fuel which I think is more unique to the generation side.
But the other half looks like it could be potential savings that when applied to other segments within the company.
You sort of ruled out transmission but any possible application of that saving to the distribution side? Well what I ruled out is anything that would have a negative impact on our regulated growth strategy.
So we just had rate cases in a number of our operations.
It would be counterproductive there if we’re looking at going forward to make additional an investments inside those utilities.
So what I ruled out is anything -- used transmission as an example but what I ruled out is anything that impacts our regulated growth strategy.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
All my questions had been answered.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Byrd from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Hi Stephen.
Good morning.
In your initial remarks you had mentioned one of the contributors to 1Q performance was -- I think it was more rigorous economic dispatch of the generation unit.
I wonder if you could just expand in terms of how you approached this year versus prior period.
Why don’t I let Donny take it but as I’ve told you our goal is to run the competitive business overall little more conservatively so that we can have predictable results and that’s what we’re trying to achieve.
And obviously what I talked about is effective last year there was a polar vortex this year in February.
There was what they term the Siberian Express which was actually more severe weather and a higher PGM peak load.
And I think that we were able to capitalize on some of that weather improvement that we get on the utility side by doing what I said.
And that is our operating our generating business much more conservatively and part of that is we’re not going to dispatch units into a price that they don't make money if we can avoid doing that.
So Donny you want to fill in any details or? Yes.
Stephen I’d just to say we’ve had a long history of this kind of thing.
If you recall back in 2009 timeframe when the market first collapsed we took our Lake plants offline we took that workforce out of the Lake plants and we moved them into the regulated side of business.
Summer of 2012 we took Sammis Plant offline to get offline for about three to four months and then ultimately brought it back online.
What we have now that's different than what we’ve had in the past.
There is a lot more freeboard.
When you have that open position into the spot market you're able to take advantage of the market much more readily than what we have had in the past because we have a cushion there from a risk perspective.
So when you look back at this previous quarter we had our Mansfield Plant completely offline for about a straight week when the price was below our marginal cost.
Okay.
Understood.
That makes sense.
And then just touching on the performance during the winter it sounds like this winter you all have a much better operational performance.
We talked a little bit in the past about this but just curious how can you -- can you talk about the sort of changes you’ve had year-over-year and how you physically manage the fleet for weather risk and how that positions you going forward? Well the biggest difference between January 14 and this year was we had a generator step-up transformer failure at Beaver Valley 1.
And that is a -- it was not a weather related event even though the temperature outside might have been 17 below zero.
The temperature inside that transformer is around 75 degree to 90 degree C so it was a random failure that just happened to occur at the worst time that it could possibly occur.
So that was the biggest impact on 2014.
Beyond that we took some steps to harden if you will some of the equipment that is outdoors and subject to weather our power plants that could lead to a disruption in unit performance.
But there wasn't a whole lot of significant work and expenditures necessary to do that.
And I'll just tell you that the teamwork between our Commodity Group and our generation fleet was exceptional this winter and that also led to the type of results that we were able to accomplish.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Well I think that was the last question.
So we want to thank you all for your support.
Obviously I think we had a pretty good quarter it was influenced by the weather and I’m not going to take credit for the weather because we've got July and August come in.
And if it goes the other way I’m not going to take blame for the weather either.
But it was a good start to the year.
If you dig down below that our operational performance was right on schedule with what we're trying to accomplish.
And I know one quarter doesn't make a trend but you have to start with one before you can get to 10 or 12.
So that's our game plan and we thank you all for your support.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings.
And welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy.
Thank you.
You may now begin.
Thanks Brandon and good morning.
Welcome to FirstEnergy’s second quarter earnings call.
Today we will make various forward-looking statements regarding revenues earnings performance strategies and prospects.
These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from this indicated by such statements can be found on the Investors section of our website under the Earnings Information link and in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are also available on our website.
Participating in today’s call are Chuck Jones President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer; and Don Moul Vice President Commodity Operations; and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Chuck Jones.
Thanks Meghan.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased to have this opportunity to share an update on what has been a very busy and productive period for FirstEnergy.
We're continuing to make steady progress on our strategic initiatives we are achieving closure on several of the industry issues that impact our company and we reported very strong financial results for the second quarter.
Our efforts to position FirstEnergy for stable predictable and customer service driven growth remained on track and I'm optimistic about our future.
During my remarks today I will review a number of recent developments and give you a sense of what we are expects for the rest of the year.
Following my comments and Jim's review of our financial and operating results we will have plenty of time for your questions.
Our operating earnings for the second quarter were $0.53 per share which is $0.03 above the top of the range we provided in May.
These results were higher -- these results were driven by higher earnings and Transmission business and the benefits of our more conservative strategy in our Competitive business.
We continue to make solid progress on energizing the future Transmission initiative which as you know is expected to be the primary driver of our growth over the next several years.
During the second quarter we completed the project design to support service reliability following the plant deactivations in Northern Ohio and we continue our work to upgrade and strengthen the grid in the ATSI region and support midstream gas operations.
We remained on pace to invest $970 million in our Transmission business during 2015 with about 60% of this investment already complete.
This year we have also put into place the framework to ensure more timely recovery for our Transmission investments.
In January we moved to a forward-looking formula rates structure for ATSI and on July 20th we filed FERC a settlement agreement that maintained at ATSI’s ROE at 12.38% for the first six months of this year.
Under this settlement which remains subject to FERC approval the rate adjust to 11.06% for the second half of this year and then the 10.38% beginning January 1 2016 until at least January 1 2018.
The average ROE for the three-year period would be 10.83%.
We're pleased to reach this settlement as it reflects the current Transmission ROE environment and allows us to move forward with our energizing the future Transmission investment plan for customers while ensuring timely recovery for the company.
We expect approval from FERC later this year.
In June we filed requests for authorization to transfer Transmission assets owned by Met-Ed Penelec and JCP&amp;L into a new Transmission affiliate called Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission or MAIT.
These assets represent approximately $900 million in rate based as of the end of 2014.
If approved by FERC the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission and the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities MAIT will operate similarly to our two existing Transmission subsidiaries ATSI and TrAILCo.
We expect this structure to facilitate investments that can improve service reliability for customers of our Eastern utility companies similar to what we're doing for customers connected to our ATSI Transmission system.
We're seeking approval from FERC in six months and from the State Commissions by mid-2016 prior to closing the transaction MAIT will file for new Transmission rates with FERC.
In May I outlined three key initiatives that will shape our company going forward.
These are the cash flow improvement project PJM capacity market reforms and our Ohio ESP.
Let's start with the results of our cash flow improvement project.
I'm pleased to report that we expect this project to result in cash flow improvement of $58 million in 2015 $155 million in 2016 and $240 million in 2017 exceeding the original targets for all three years.
We launched this project in April with the goal of capturing both immediate and long-term savings that are meaningful and sustainable.
We have completed a thorough analysis of savings and process improvements that do not compromise our ability to serve the needs of our organization our customers and our employees and we are now moving forward to implement these plans.
These improvements come primarily from our competitive and corporate functions.
The largest categories include reducing expenses and capital at our competitive fleet particularly at our sub-critical fossil units reducing fossil fuel and fuel-related commodity expenses and taking advantage of attrition across the company and implemented a selective hiring program.
There are also nearly 100 smaller items that collectively make a strong impact.
About 65% of this savings are expected from operating expenses and 35% are from capital and nuclear fuel improvements over the three-year period.
On page 170 of our FactBook which was posted on our website last evening we include more details on the cash flow initiative.
We've already begun the implementation process in fact the majority of the fuel savings that we identified have already been locked in and the new contract pricing will begin in September.
We have also establish a project management office to ensure we capture these savings and are fully committed to successfully executing this plan and establishing a new foundation for FirstEnergy going forward.
We believe it will result in a stronger and more flexible company with an improve balance sheet overtime.
Turning to capacity market reforms during the quarter FERC approved PJM’s new capacity performance rules and as you know FERC issued an order last week allowing demand response and energy efficiency resources into the transitional auctions.
Importantly the base residual auction remains on track and is still scheduled to begin August 10th.
The 2016-17 and 2017-18 transitional auctions were delayed slightly and are now scheduled to begin on August 26th and September 3rd respectively.
Before I move from general -- generation let's quickly touch on the Supreme Court decision regarding MATS.
While the EPA regulations remain in effect pending further judicial proceedings before the DC Circuit Court I want to be clear that FirstEnergy is not contemplating reopening any of the units representing 4 769 megawatts of generation that were closed due to cost of compliance with the MATS regulations.
For our remaining fleet we have already spent a significant portion of the $370 million in capital expenditures for equipment upgrades that were required under MATS and many projects are complete or underway.
In our competitive generation fleet we identified a total cost of $178 million to comply with the regulations of which $62 million had been spent through June 30th of this year.
At our regulated fleet the cost estimate was $192 million with $105 million of that spent through June 30th.
I will also mention that we are moving forward with all aspects of the construction of the new dewatering facility for our 2400 megawatt Bruce Mansfield Plant in Pennsylvania.
While the plant is still pressured by current market conditions we believe moving forward with constructions as prudent to ensure that these megawatts remain available to serve customers in 2017 after our disposal rights at Little Blue Run expire.
As we've previously mentioned all costs associated with this project are in our current capital plan.
Finally let's move to our Ohio and our Electric Security Plan.
Based on the current procedural schedule staff testimony is due August 14 with hearings to begin at the end of the month.
As you would expect we remain very engaged in this process.
We filed supplemental testimony in early May to further emphasize the factors that the Ohio commission outlined in the AEP and Duke cases.
It is telling that the public utilities that serve the majority of customers in the state agree conceptually on an appropriate transition plan for the future that ensure safe reliable clean and affordable power for all Ohio customers from industrial facilities to homeowners.
Given the plan’s benefits including the economic development support we believe our filing meets the criteria outlined by the commission and will remain optimistic that this plan will result in sound state energy policy for our customers.
We had a solid first half since the start of the year.
We have made tremendous progress toward our goals of investing in customer focus growth supporting sound energy policy and strengthening our company from within.
We know there is still work to be done to position FirstEnergy for the future.
At this point we are reaffirming our 2015 operating earnings guidance range of $2.40 a share to $2.70 a share with all three of our operating segments turning favorably versus their midpoints.
We’re comfortable guiding to the top of this range.
We expect to refine guidance on the third quarter call once we have seen the full effects of the summer weather.
Collectively the cash flow improvement initiative upcoming capacity auction results and Ohio ESP decision will drive the near-term financial strategy of our company and give us a much clearer view of the next three years including earnings and cash flow and a determination on additional equity if any to drive growth in our regulated businesses.
In addition we have already begun our robust annual planning process which includes updating projections for all of our utilities especially now that we have the three major rate cases behind us.
This effort will help us further refine our distribution utility earnings profile going forward.
Many of you have asked about the status of our analyst meeting.
At this time we still intend to hold it after the outcome of the Ohio ESP which may push the meeting into early 2016.
We look forward to providing you a comprehensive view of our future planning at that time.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jim for a brief review of our second quarter financial results.
Thanks Chuck and good morning everyone.
My prepared remarks will focus on the major drivers and events in the quarter.
As you know more details are available in the consolidated report that was posted on our website yesterday evening.
And as always we welcome your questions either in the Q&amp;A or following the call.
Today we reported strong second quarter 2015 operating earnings of $0.53 per share which compares to $0.49 per share last year.
On a GAAP basis basic earnings were $0.44 per share for the second quarter of 2015.
GAAP earnings were $0.16 per basic share during the same period last year.
As Chuck mentioned our operating earnings were above our targeted range for the quarter.
Let’s look at the results from each of our segments starting with the distribution business.
Residential sales decreased seven-tenths of a percent overall compared to the second quarter of 2014 while commercial sales increased 1%.
Adjusting for weather residential deliveries were down 2.4% and commercial sales were flat.
We are examining the residential usage trend which has been down over the last four quarters on a weather-adjusted basis.
We believe this is attributable to energy efficiency as average customer usage has also declined quarter-over-quarter.
In the industrial sector sales decreased 1.1% in the quarter handing a seven quarter run of increased demand from the customer class primarily due to lower usage from the steel industry.
The current rate of shale growth continues to be impacted by soft natural gas prices.
While we still see support for more than 1000 megawatts of new load for midstream activities through 2019 our forecast reflects greater confidence in the 2015 and 2016 project which represents about half of that load growth.
Turning to our transmission business second quarter operating earnings increased $0.06 to-$0.21 per share as a result of revenue increases from a higher rate base at ATSI and a forward-looking rate structure that began in January.
In our competitive business operating earnings $0.01 per share compared to the same period last year reflecting higher commodity margin associated with higher capacity revenues a modest increase in wholesale sales and lower contract sales.
Additionally operating cost decreased year-over-year largely due to improved planned performance.
As we said last quarter we had essentially sold everything we anticipated for 2015 on a retail and forward wholesale basis with a reserve of 5 million megawatt hours available for spot wholesales through the end of the year.
For 2016 about 70% of our expected generation resources are committed and we are currently about 40% committed for 2017.
Based on our results for the first half of the year and the projected savings from the cash flow improvement initiative we are reaffirming 2015 adjusted EBITDA range for the comparative business of $875 million to $950 million and increasing our 2016 adjusted EBITDA range to $825 million to $925 million from $750 million to $850 million.
It was another solid quarter for our company and this is shaping up to be a good year.
As Chuck said we are reaffirming our operating earnings guidance and the trends we see so far this year make us confident at the top end of that range at this point.
We are committed to achieving the cash savings we have identified and to building long-term shareholder value through our customer focused regulated growth strategy.
Now with that I’d like to open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Hi Dan.
Hey Chuck thanks for the additional detail on the cash flow improvement slides.
I guess in sense of being greedy two questions one what do you see for opportunities going forward.
Can those numbers grow as you kind of get further into the process of evaluation? And then two can you talk a little bit of how you really get searched big flow savings out of suppliers who seem to be pretty in financial dire straits at this point? Well I’ll take the first question and then I’ll hand the second part of it off to Don Moul to answer.
And on the first one I do think there are some opportunities for us to add to this over time particularly in the supply chain area we set a 12-week timeframe to complete this study.
We can operate it at that speed but our suppliers don’t unnecessarily operate at that speed.
So we’ve got a number of items in the queue that we’re still working on to try to get it across the finish line.
So I think there is some opportunity to improve this over time.
And I’ll let Don to tackle your fuel question.
Yeah.
Thanks Chuck.
And so when you take a look at the CFIP savings as you noted Dan.
One of the most significant savings in the initiative comes from reduction in the fossil fuel cost.
And that sort of savings is about $151 million that kind of breaks out as follows about half or $75 million of the savings is really a result of working with our coal suppliers to get reduced rates.
And then we got about $50 million associated with the refined coal process where we partnered with several third parties to produce the coal that reduces emissions.
We have a contractual relationship where we paid for every kind of coal that’s treated and the third party receives a tax credit under Sector 45 of the tax code.
These contracts are now in place with Sammis and Mansfield Field through 2021 and we are in the final steps of negotiating for Pleasants.
The balance which is about $25 million is driven from several smaller writing items including reagent and waste disposal costs.
And as Chuck said these are already under contract.
So that’s part of the write-down of the savings and clearly the coal suppliers are in tight market times as well as we are.
We found opportunities to build on our relationships.
We’ve got good relationships with our coal suppliers and our transportation suppliers.
We meet with them twice a year to work through these market challenges and try to find ways that we can partner in a win-win kind of an approach.
So we have been successful so far.
We look forward to working with them in the future.
I will just follow on the second there because I know I am going to get this question later.
The savings we were able to achieve in the fuel supply particularly related to the Bruce Mansfield Plant were a big factor in our decision to move forward with the dewatering facility makes that plant more competitive starting September 1.
Okay.
Got it.
I guess can we turn to the Ohio PPA structure and kind of it keeps getting pushed out from a time perspective? Should we read anything to maybe some change in tone at the governor level or at the commission level if they are interested in doing this? And then do you see any risk to may be interest changing once EPA comes to the carbon rules or once RPM gets out there? I will let Leila to take it and then I may follow on.
Okay.
Thanks Chuck.
Hi Dan.
I think the delay in the hearing was in response to the commission desire to get additional data points with regard to what’s happening with the EPA but I think more precisely what’s happening with the capacity performance.
I don’t think that that should be the be-all end-all I think those are data points but I also think they are mindful of the fact that our current ESP ends the middle of next year.
So there is not a lot of additional delays that could be tolerated within the schedule we need to meet.
So I think we are in a good space right now with regard to the timing of it with hearing starting August 31.
One thing I would like to point out it was after the last call that we continue to be in negotiations.
And since our last call we were able to add [IU] [ph] with the non-opposing party and Kroger as a signed party.
So I think what is presented to the commission is a very robust settlement.
I am still very hopeful that we will be able to move forward in a very positive way.
And as always we continue to try and bring additional parties on board.
So to your question on how does it tie into the clean power plant and other things that are on I don’t think we have time to wait to see how all of those shake out.
There is a sense of urgency here I think around these two facilities in particular that we’ve got to get a decision made about them.
So obviously we are anxious to keep it moving forward.
And just to clarify the timeline is the hearings are August 31 can you just walk through the -- Leila maybe the steps in there to where final resolution should play out if it goes through litigators without a settlement? So at this point I would like to say we would get it done by the end of the year but I am thinking it might slip into the very first part of next year so early 2016 for a final decision.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hi good morning.
Hi Neel.
The transmission business seems to be doing well.
And I think in the past you mentioned that maybe about a $1 billion is the maximum you can spend a year.
Is that number still right? Or could you deploy additional capital beyond that $1 billion if the process goes well and the Pennsylvania utilities are included in the transfers? Well I think there are several factors.
We’ve communicated our plans for the next several years and they amount to about a $1 billion a year.
Meg will provide additional opportunities if we’re successful in getting it done.
Our transmission infrastructure has aged and we’ve talked about a queue of projects that could potentially go on for a long time at the rate of a $1 billion a year.
So I think at that point in time we would look at it but I think a determining factor is the ability to resource additional construction.
There is a shortage of transmission alignment around our country and that would be a factor in terms of expanding it to any significant amount I think.
Got it.
And then the second question on Davis-Besse and Sammis obviously you need both the capacity auction and the PPA for the plants to be successful.
How do you philosophically think about the strategy around bidding in the PJM without a PPA resolution in hand? Our attack is to bid those units as competitive units.
That’s what they are today.
And I would just correct one thing you said I don’t think we need both.
I think we need the PPAs.
If we’re successful there what happens in the capacity options even though they are bid as competitive units that value will flow to customers once the PPA is approved.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Orrill with Barclays.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Yes.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could comment on the appeals to the Supreme Court of Ohio of the AEP PPA proposal whether that’s relevant to -- whether you think that’s relevant to your case at all and if you care to comment on whether you think the Supreme Court will take the case? Greg this is Leila.
I think right now that those appeals are premature.
There is still absolute hearing associated with that case in Ohio I don’t see how you get the Supreme Court to take those up when absolute hearing are pending.
So I fully expect those cases those appeals to be dismissed.
Does it mean they can’t refile them at a later date? But again I think they are prematured.
So I don’t think they are going to have any affect on our case.
And with regard I read some conjecture that if they went forward somehow things would be stayed in Ohio as the case is going before the Ohio Supreme Court the decision goes forward the commission decision goes forward and is not stayed unless a specific statutory provision is met.
And under that provision the party that is requesting the stay needs to provide and post the bond.
So that’s a very high hurdle to assume within the context of this type of cases.
So again bottomline no effect.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
A quick question on the transmission.
Again you booked -- you are up I guess $0.11 in the first half of the year.
Is there anything in those numbers for the settlements like have you taken some kind of a charge against the lower ROE this quarter or is that all to come in H2 when the things finalized? There wasn’t a lower ROE this quarter.
We got 12.3% in place for the first six months of 2015 which was a partial contributor to the better performance in the transmission segment.
Just curious Chuck whether you might have had to recognize the lower return that will come in the second half of the year ahead of time but it sounds like none? No we won’t Jonathan.
We will recognize those during the periods that they occur.
So the moving part as we think about the second half the transmission is higher rate base having the forward looking test year for the second half of the year and tempered somewhat by ROE? Yes.
I would say Jonathan for the second half of year you won’t see the robust growth that we saw in the first quarter.
We were up $0.11 year-over-year.
For the second quarter or for the second half of the year you are going to have a much higher rate base that you’re going to compare to in '15 compared to '14.
In the first half of 2014 that rate base was based on December 2012 rate base and that carried through for the first five months and that was $683 million.
When I look at the comparisons in the second half of 2014 that rate base was going to be about $922 million compared to $1.8 billion.
And you are right.
The ROE that was used for the second half of last year was 12.38% and we will recognize 11.06% in the second half of 2015.
With that said I would expect that transmission will trend to the upper end of the range as we said most of our segments are.
Okay.
But still the mass sort more of that let’s get to that when you add all those parts together.
That’s right.
That’s right.
So thank you.
Sorry.
I just want to add.
We are very happy with this settlement.
We wouldn’t have settled if we weren’t and if you think about what we are doing $500 million of investment in our transmission business the difference between 10.38% and 12.38% adds to maybe $10 million maybe a penny a half a share overall.
But as we talked earlier the forward-looking rate returns cash in earnings back to the business faster and more timely given the way we are investing in smaller project to get done quickly.
So we can catch and we think they are getting the clarity on ROE is a big help too.
So I just wanted to understand the mass of bridging the second half.
Okay.
And our next question comes from line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Steve.
Hi Chuck.
Two questions.
First is there any schedule that’s been said so far on the filing on the MAIT approvals I guess particularly in the states Pennsylvania New Jersey? So right now interventions were due by July 10th.
And right now I don't see any further procedural schedules that with regard to that although we would expect a decision by December ’15.
And that’s in which state? That will occur this year.
I’m sorry? Which state? Where? So that’s with respect to FERC and then… Got it FERC.
Okay.
…to Pennsylvania interventions on August 3rd.
Pre-hearing conferences in -- sometime August September date and then a decision mid 2016.
And with respect to New Jersey there are no deadline interventions and we would expect an order again with regard to that by mid 2016.
Okay.
So no specific hearing dates.
Okay.
And then is there a precedence in Pennsylvania and New Jersey for others that have been able to get kind of existing transmission kind of separated out.
Yes.
Part of our ATSI assets in Pennsylvania.
And I believe there are others although they are not on top of mind right now.
Okay.
There is rail.
And power operating company is part of ATSI.
Great.
And then just the clarification on the comment on equity.
I think you again said that you only would consider equity to a degree that there would be additional growth beyond your current capital plans.
Is that correct? What I said in my remarks is once we have -- we've got the cash flow improvements.
Once we have the results of capacity performance and once we know where we are at with the ATSI then we'll look at whether there's an application for equity to stimulate growth both in transmission and distribution if any.
So all along I do not want to have to use equity to repair our credit metrics and strengthen the balance sheet.
That's why we implemented the CFIT project.
I think we made substantial progress there as that starts to flow through to strengthening our balance sheet strengthening our cash flow strengthening our FFO because about two thirds of it is O&amp;M.
And then we'll see where the other two land and then we are going to go from there.
And when we have the Analyst Meeting hopefully early next year then we will tell you where we are at with that a little more definitively.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shar Pourreza with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning.
Hi Shaw.
Just one quick question on the delay of the ESP.
Obviously we just get a little bit of the sense on the status of the upcoming polar auctions and sort of if there is a potential impact on your hedging profile and obviously you’ve been lowering your weather sensitive hedges.
But kind of curious on sort of how we should think about that? So let me answer the first piece of that with regard to the schedule.
I do believe that the delay in the schedule was in part a desire and the part of the new administration under the new chair Andre Porter to get additional data points before having to make a decision.
I think those -- even though the transitional options have been pushed back by the time we complete hearings of those data points will also be known.
So I don't anticipate further delays.
Again because if for no other reason we need to secure additional polar auctions for flow to deliver to be delivered by mid-next year so I think we are at that point where hopefully we are actually going to go-forward at the end of August with hearing.
And I’m going to turn it over to Don with regard to the hedging part of the question.
As similarly with other market participants we are going to have to adjust based on what that polar auction schedule is.
Obviously we try to build our planned ratably hedged through the year.
If we need to we will adjust to other channels including our wholesale channels if we have to sell forward to lock in some of that that volume and eliminate price risk from a portfolio.
Excellent.
That was it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hey Julien.
So first question here.
In terms of the timing you obviously talked about at the Analyst Day early next year but EEI this year in the back half the year in terms of the capital budgeting process and updating us on the outlook for the T&amp;D wires if you will side of the house holistically.
Would you expect to give us an update on the CapEx and perhaps in tandem with that I suppose balance sheet and cash flow considerations coming out of that? I think at EEI in November we will give you what we’ve typically given you at the EEI which is our best look at the future across all of those.
Yeah.
And we are not going to hold anything back there.
But I don't think we can talk about the long-term plan beyond the next couple years until we have the answers to those other two questions that I talked about.
Got it.
And when you talk about long-term plan let me just be a little bit clearer if you can or perhaps maybe the Analyst Day a little bit.
Are we alluding to the future of the generation business here and how that fits within the context to your business or is the long-term plan more strictly defined within where the long-term trajectory of spend is in the context of your wires business? Julien since I took over this job January 1 I bet I've had the questions 500 times what’s the long-term growth strategy what's the long-term vision and I think I've answered at the same way 500 times is I will tell you that once we get a few of these short-term issues out of the way.
So I think it applies to all of that.
Got it.
Excellent.
Well thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Thanks and good morning.
Hi Brian.
When FERC made the decision about demand response in the transitional auctions I was wondering to what extent does that affect your thoughts with regards to the company's ability to not have to issue equity with regards to the competitiveness if at all.
I don't think I've sat here ever thinking about issuing equity for the competitive business.
And I think once the results of the cash flow improvement process which substantial part was a result of the competitive business stepping up.
Their particular credit metrics are going to look very strong.
It’s going to make a big impact on that part of the company.
It makes an impact on the overall First Energy credit metrics too but a substantial impact inside the competitive business.
So I think we are going to be fine there for the foreseeable future.
We already had that business in a position where it was cash flow positive for the next four years.
This makes it substantially more cash flow positive which was the second factor in the decision to go forward with demand still dewatering.
All the CapEx for that project was already in the four-year plan and already in a plan that was cash flow positive but we now got some margin there.
And as I’ve said along the game plan with that business is to keep it cash flow positive and take that positive cash flow and eventually use it to start paying back the holding company for some of the loans that we made to that business a few years ago so that’s the long-term plan there.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First question so you guys have been -- Chuck you’ve been making the grounds of the editorial boards.
And there have been some interesting quotes and what have you.
And I know that sometimes when you're being reported on -- meaning not coming out exactly as you intended it out.
But just wondered if you could sort of elaborate a little bit more on your comments about re-regulation trying to save the company statements like that? And just how that fits in with this ESP proposal that you have -- the PPA proposal and just sort of comment a little bit more on that? Let’s first talk a little bit about how our newspapers run.
We went and met with the editorial board and we had what I thought was a good conversation over an hour and 50 minutes.
But then it gets drilled down into an article.
Once that articles written then there's a headline writer who goes and writes a headline to try to draw attention to that article.
The headlines that was written for that article was completely inaccurate as to anything we discussed during that interview.
In the interview I was asked a specific question of are we in anyway working to get the legislature of the state to consider re-regulating and my answer was no.
In the context of the discussion about the PPAs here's my view.
We are talking about trying to find ways to preserve major generating assets that have plenty of useful life left in them and keep them from closing prematurely.
Exelon is looking at doing that in Illinois and New York.
Ohio utilities are looking at doing it in Ohio.
You don't ever hear any conversation about needing to do that in states that are regulated.
Regulated states have plenty of generation.
They have integrated resource plans and if they need more generation they either buy or build it so they are assured they have adequate generation to serve their customers.
So these PPAs I see as a bridge to keep these plants alive long enough to allow whatever happens.
If our state wants to look at that issue over time great but its not going to happen fast enough for these two plants.
If we are ultimately able to make significant corrections in the market to make sure they provide for the long-term security of baseload generating facility is great but I don’t think we have time to wait on that either.
And yesterday the Senate Energy Committee put forth the bill that talks about asking the markets to try to come up with the process to make sure they ensure diversity of both fuel and types of generating capacity across the markets.
We don’t have time to wait on that either.
These plants are at risk today and we need to get a decision made as to whether we’re going to look at ways to protect them so we let all of those debates and legislation in Washington DC and everything else play out.
Okay.
I appreciate the clarity.
Just thought I would hear straight from you.
So then the second question I have for you is the fuel saving that you guys have been talking about how sustainable is that? And do you see potential other opportunities? Or just in other words it sounds that these steps are one-off? Do you follow what I’m trying to say is in other words I mean how should we think about your ability to recognize fuel savings going forward? Well I’ll let Don ask -- answer it but my view is they are sustainable.
And I met with our fuel team yesterday about how we can get more.
So under that context I’ll turn it over to Don.
Yeah.
Thanks Chuck.
And so I touched on it briefly earlier but we spent some time working with our key fuel suppliers and really looking for ways that can make us more competitive in the marketplace while still keeping them viable in a tough marketplace for coal suppliers as well.
Are there more opportunities as Chuck mentioned? We’re looking for those opportunities.
But it’s going to probably take some innovative approaches and working with our suppliers to get there given the economics that we see right now.
Okay.
Great.
I appreciated.
Thanks a lot.
I mean obvious context is that the competitive generating fleets both nuclear and fossil are under duress as a result of current market conditions.
The second industry that’s under equal or maybe the more duress is the coal industry.
And I think what we’re trying to do is work together partner together for the survival of both.
Okay.
But the nuclear fuel was in the free cash flow seems to have come down your projection for that in 2015? Is that part of the savings or is that something else? There are some savings in there for nuclear fuel.
And essentially what we did there is we were looking at procuring additional nuclear fuel to take advantage of the very low prices of uranium that there are in the market today way ahead of when we needed it.
We don't need it for a number of years yet.
We decided not to do that mainly on the basis that -- as we assess that uranium market we think the pricing is going to stay where it’s at for a long time and so there was no urgency to try to need to capitalize on that this year.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from lines of Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Most of the all my questions have been answered already.
I’m just wondering in the context of your guide telling us that you’re trending toward the high-end of the guidance range for ’15 is that you’re trending toward the high-end of the guidance range in all three segments… Yes.
..
or you’re doing better than expected in some in towards the midpoint of this? We are above the midpoint in all three segments through six months.
And that combined with the CFIP results that we talked about that we’re going to get in the second half of the year are what cause us to say we can point you to the high-end of the guidance.
So if you follow-on questions well why don't you just kind of change your guidance.
The answer is we got $1.15 in the bank through six months.
Our midpoint of our original guidance was $2.55 that means we got a $1.40 that we've got to capture the second half of the year just to get to the midpoint and the $1.55 we’ve got to capture to get to the high-end of the range and we’ve got a lot of very volatile weather months in the third quarter and a big third quarter.
So we just decided we’re going to wait see what happens in July and August in particular and then at the end of the third quarter when we do this call at the end of the third quarter we’ll tell you where we expect to be more definitively at that time.
Okay.
So if whether normal or better for the rest of the year than you’re comfortable that you’re going to be at the high-end? Yes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
I have a capacity performance related question for you.
Can you talk a little bit about given your largely coal and nuclear what you physically done at the plants to prepare yourself to where you wouldn’t -- you would be able to reduce the risk of having to pay penalties for failure to perform when called an emergency hours.
What have you done different physically at the plant to prepare for this relative or compare to what you did in prior years? Well I would say this we did a number of things to prepare our plants for the winner of 2014 ‘15 and order to insure they operated reliably for this winner even in an environment were they weren’t any penalties.
As far as how we look at that going forward we’re going to make that determination in terms of how much you’re willing to spend on reliability improvement versus where the capacity performance market clears.
And in terms of the specific numbers I don’t think we’re in a position to talk about those at this time.
We need to see where both the base residual auction and then we’re in particular the transaction auctions clear because those are the more eminent.
For the base residual you got three years to figure how to get your units reliable for that one.
The transition auctions are a little more pressing in terms of time.
So we’ll make those determinations once we see where the auction results come out.
Got it.
Thank you Chuck.
Much appreciate it.
Okay.
Michael.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you just talk about how you beat your guidance kind of what the areas of strength were? And then I have a follow-up question after that.
Jim.
You are talking about our guidance for the third quarter Paul? Second quarter.
Okay.
For the second quarter we looked at where we though we would be based on our plan.
We did come about above the high end of our guidance.
We defer some of our plant outages to later in the year.
So we picked up a couple cents there.
Distribution they performed a little bit better slightly lower O&amp;M and then we had slightly better results from our transmission business that we’ve already talked about.
So that’s really what drove us above the top end of the guidance in the second quarter.
And are you still with your charges at the competitive business to reposition the portfolio? They will be substantially finished by the end of 2015 with only a minor amount carrying over the '16.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hey.
Good morning Chuck.
Just I guess a PPA type question.
Since the last call you’ve had the governor of Ohio announced his intention of obtaining the Republican nomination.
Does that complicate the PPA process because sometimes you have campaigns that are more interested in what’s better for a national audience and maybe not focused on what would be beneficial to like Ohio customers or Ohio rate bears in this case? My view would be I think it's a non-factor.
I think the governor's decision to run for a President is a political decision and it affects things that might happen politically.
I think he's made it clear all along that he expects that you’ll have Public Utilities Commission to look at this issue and make an informed decision on this issue.
So I don't think that would change as a result of this decision.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Okay.
I don’t see any more questions in the queue.
So we’re going to actually end few minutes earlier here.
I want to thank everybody for your support and obviously we feel good about where we are at for -- Philson just popped in there.
So I’m going to stop and let Philson ask his question.
Thank you.
Philson Yim with Luminus please go ahead with your question.
Just talk about that the $1.55 to capture high end for the rest of the year? On LTM transmission is basically R&amp;D at a midpoint is basically what I see.
Is that right? Yeah.
That’s correct Philson.
And do you expect transmission to only grow kind of $0.04 for the balance of the year to get to the high end or are there offsets there? No.
I won’t say there is any offset.
I talked a little bit earlier.
I don't think you'll see the growth in the revenues that you did see in the first half.
You saw $0.20 there in the first half.
We’ve guided to the $0.30 for the year.
I think we’re going to be slightly above that.
Some of the offsets that you saw during the first half were depreciation general taxes and interest.
They will probably be about in line the second half of the year as they were at the first half of the year.
So I think we will trend as Chuck said to the upper end of the range on transmission but it's not going to be same $0.11 that you saw in the first half.
Okay.
Thank you.
And distribution to the midpoint there is a $0.10 drop year-over-year expected? But year-to-date you guys are tracking at are there offsets expected in the second half of the year? Yeah.
Right now Philson we are tracking about $0.01 behind where we’re last year and we guided you to about $0.11 behind.
There is a few offsets.
We had some improvement in distribution.
We’ve been helped somewhat by weather and the earlier part of the year.
So I would not expect based on normal weather going throughout the rest of the year that we would drop down to the $0.11 that we guided you to.
Got it.
Thank you.
That will be at upper end also.
Thank you very much.
Sorry to everyone for extending the call.
We had a bet when I was going out and you cost me a lunch.
Now thanks to everybody as I said.
I think we are off to a great start this year.
We feel good about the results.
I will tell you I am constantly impressed with our team here and whatever we asked them to deliver they find a way.
Under Donny's leadership this cash flow improvement team exceeded my expectations.
I don't know what your expectations were when I told you we were going to get to $200 million but they exceeded my expectations.
And we are working hard to and we’ll capture those savings over the next couple years.
So thanks for your support and we look forward to talking to you on the third quarter call and probably many of you in between.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp’s Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director Investor Relations for FirstEnergy.
Thank you Miss Beringer.
You may now begin.
Thanks Rob.
Good morning and welcome to our quarter earnings call.
Today we will make various forward-looking statements regarding revenues earnings performance strategies and prospects.
These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such statements can be found on the Investors section of our website under the Earnings Information link and in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are also available on our website.
Participating in today’s call are Chuck Jones President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Pearson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Donny Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I will turn the call over to Chuck Jones.
Thanks Meghan.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
We’re pleased to report another solid quarter for FirstEnergy.
Last night we reported third quarter operating earnings of $0.98 per share which is $0.06 above the top of our guidance range for the quarter.
As Jim will discuss in greater detail these results reflect a solid performance across all three of our business segments.
Based on our strong third quarter and year-to-date performance we’re raising and narrowing our full year 2015 operating earnings guidance to a range of 267 to 275 per share from our previous range of 240 to 270 per share.
This is shaping up to be a great year for FirstEnergy and as we look forward to 2016 our employees can be proud of what they’ve achieved.
In addition to strong earnings we have made tremendous progress on key initiatives that can provide us with greater strength and flexibility as we work to achieve our future goals.
So far this year we have clarity on the results from two of these initiatives.
The cash flow improvement project and PJM capacity market reforms and we continue to make progress on the third initiative the Ohio ESP.
As we discussed in July our cash flow improvement project exceeded our initial target and should generate at least 240 million in cash flow improvements by 2017.
That project would solicit cost savings ideas from across the company is rolling out as we expected and we remain fully on track to capture the 58 million in cash flow improvements identified for 2015.
Overall this effort is not only establishing a new cost structure for the company.
It has also helped us to initiate a culture change around spending.
Employees continue to provide suggestions for meaningful and sustainable ways to reduce our cost structure which could drive modes incremental savings going forward on top of what we have already communicated.
We’re also cautiously optimistic capacity market reforms that are now in place at PJM.
Results from the base residual and transitional auctions held in August and September were in line with our expectations.
With the pay for performance model resulting and clearing prices that come closer to reflecting the true operating costs of our generating plans.
You’ll recall that we raised our 2016 adjusted EBITDA guidance range for our competitive business in September as a result of the higher capacity and all of our uncommitted generation clearing the transitional auction for the 2016 2017 delivery years.
And we are reaffirming that range.
We’re also raising and narrowing our 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance based on our year-to-date results and the impact of our cash flow initiative.
While Jim will provide more of the details about adjusted EBITDA for our competitive business in a few minutes I wanted to take a moment to address our current thinking about 2017.
All of our uncommitted generation cleared the 2017 2018 transitional auction as well.
But as you know our proposed purchase power agreement Ohio would impact generation sales for seven months in 2016 and the full year of 2017.
So while we consider providing an adjusted EBITDA range for 2017 on this call we ultimately decided that we do not have enough information yet to offer a constructive view.
We remain committed to being transparent and we intend to provide you with this outlook once there is more clarity.
With that said we’re pleased that the combination of our cash flow initiative and PJM capacity revenues from recent auctions will further strengthen the overall cash flow position for our competitive business.
And you’ll recall that we already expected that business to be cash flow positive through at least 2018 prior to the incremental benefits of these two initiatives.
Many of you have asked if we intend to shut down additional shut down additional plants.
I tell our employees we’re working hard to ensure all remaining generation remains viable.
The results of the Ohio ESP and future auctions will give us a better understanding of the longer term outlook on our at risk space [ph] little power plants and we continue to consider fuel and transportation contracts as well as environmental matters such as the EPAs Clean Power Plan which was finalized in August.
We are particularly interested and that rolls treatment of existing nuclear generation state specific emission reduction targets the compliance time line and state flexibility.
While we are advocating for an interpretation that allows for a thoughtful engineering based approach to ensure reliable energy resources for our customers we will not have full clarity on the rules impact until state implementation plans are submitted which could be as late as 2018 and then approved by the EPA.
To ensure that our critical base little power plants continue operating and to help safeguard our customers against price increases and volatility we remain committed to our Ohio Electric Security Plan.
The evidence you’re already hearing for the ESP began August and rebuttal testimony was filed last week.
We currently expect a decision by early 2016 and we continue our discussions with the PUCO staff and other parties to reach a positive outcome for our Ohio customers.
In fact you may have noticed that Leila is not on the call today.
She is in Columbus working on the ESP as we speak and I think that’s where we would all rather have her.
Once we have an outcome in Ohio we have the information necessary to more fully assess FirstEnergy’s earning for 2016 regulated growth in future years as well as our cash flow over the next several years.
As we’ve talked about previously at that point we will determine future equity needs if any to help support our regulated growth initiatives.
We’re also laying the ground work for sustainable reliability investments in Pennsylvania.
Last week our four utilities in the state filed long-term infrastructure improvement plans with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission.
In total these plans call for a projected increase in capital investment of nearly $245 million over the next five years to strengthen upgrade and modernize our distribution systems.
We’re anticipating that PUCs approval of the LTA [ph] proposals by mid-February.
Once we have approval to the plan we will use the distribution system improvement charge at each company to recover the appropriate fixed costs that are the part of the plans.
In New Jersey we’re further enhancing our current service reliability program with an additional 25 million spending in 2015.
These expenditures which are expected to have a $0.04 per share impact on fourth quarter of 2015 earnings will not only enhance our current service reliability program but also demonstrate our commitment to make JCP&amp;L a stronger company.
Of course a significant part of our growth plan includes our growth plan includes our Energizing the Future transmission initiative which remains on pace to invest $970 million this year with about 80% of that amount spent year-to-date.
Recent projects include final planning and preliminary site work for a new substation near Smithfield West Virginia that will support the shale gas industry and enhance service reliability in Mon Power.
We are also nearing completion on a transmission reinforcement project including a substation and 6 mile 138 kV line in Harrison County West Virginia that will enhance service reliability for more than 14 000 Mon Power customers in Harrison Louis and Gilmer counties.
We expect the substation to be energized in December.
We are pleased to report that late yesterday afternoon FERC approved our settlement agreement for ATSI’s forward-looking formula rate structure.
In addition our proposal to move our Met-Ed Penelec and JCP&amp;L transmission assets into a new affiliate called Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission or MAIT is moving through the FERC and state approval processes.
We continue to seek final state approval for MAIT by mid-2016.
If approved we expect this structure to facilitate investments that can improve service reliability for these utility customers.
Lastly we remain committed to holding an analyst meeting after we have results from our Ohio case.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim for a brief review of the quarter and our expectations for the remainder of the year.
As always we will reserve plenty of time for your questions before the end of the hour.
Thanks Chuck and good morning everyone.
Before I get started I will remind you that more detailed information about the quarter can be found in the consolidated report that was posted to our website yesterday evening.
We also welcome your questions in the Q&amp;A or following the call.
Our strong third quarter operating earnings of $0.98 per share compares to $0.89 per share in the third quarter of 2014.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $0.94 per share for the third quarter of 2015 compared to $0.79 per share during the same period last year.
Our operating earnings primarily reflect higher distribution sales and the net impact of previously resolved rate cases.
Higher transmission revenues that resulted from our Energizing the Future initiative and ATSI’s forward-looking rate structure and higher commodity margin in our competitive business partially offset by higher operating expenses and a higher effective tax rate.
In our distribution business residential sales increased 9% and commercial sales increased 2.6% compared to the third quarter of 2014 primarily resulting from cooling degree days that were 36% higher than last year and 13% above normal.
Adjusting for weather however residential deliveries decreased nearly 1% and commercials sales were down 2.4% reflecting the impact of energy efficiency mandates.
As we mentioned during our second quarter call we are examining the usage trend in all three customer classes particularly the impact of energy efficiency on residential usage and we will be prepared to discuss our load forecast in more detail during our analyst meeting.
However we do believe we are seeing the effects of energy efficient lightings sooner and with a larger impact than previous estimates.
In the industrial sector sales decreased 3.2% in the quarter as a result of lower usage from our steel coal mining and electrical equipment and manufacturing customers partially offset by increased usage from shale gas and automotive sectors.
In our transmission business third quarter operating earnings increased $0.04 to $0.17 per share as a result of higher revenue associated with a higher rate base and ATSI’s forward-looking rate structure which began in January.
In our competitive business operating earnings increased $0.09 per share compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Commodity margin increased $0.15 per share due to favorable summer weather that was warm but not extreme coupled with lower commodity costs.
Contract sales volume decreased in line with our expectation while wholesale sales volume increased slightly.
Variable margin benefited from higher capacity revenues lower purchase power costs and fuel expense and lower transmission charges.
Operating cost increased compared to the third quarter of 2014 primarily due to greater expense related to a nuclear refueling outage this quarter at Beaver Valley 2.
We remain committed to our ongoing strategy of mitigating risk by reducing sales to weather sensitive channels and have reduced the size of our residential retail book by approximately 38% since the third quarter of 2014 and also reduced the size of our weather sensitive commercial industrial book over the same period.
Looking at our sales position for 2016 we have about 59 million megawatt hours or about 75% of our expected generation resources committed and we are currently about 45% committed for 2017 with about 36 million megawatt hours sold.
As Chuck discussed earlier we are raising and narrowing our 2015 adjusted EBITDA range for the competitive business to 945 million to 975 million from 875 million to 950 million based on our results through the first nine months of the year and the projected savings from the cash flow improvement project.
We are also reaffirming the 2016 adjusted EBITDA range that we provided in September of 950 million to 1.5 billion and as Chuck mentioned we intend to provide 2017 adjusted EBITDA after the Ohio ESP is resolved.
Moving to other financial matters during the September investor conferences we received questions about our pension funding plan.
So we wanted to spend a moment clarifying this topic.
As we do each year we disclosed our estimated pension funding requirements for the next several years as of December 31 2014 in the Form 10-K that was filed in February and as always we include those future funding estimates in our internal long-term planning process.
You’ll recall we contributed $143 million to our pension fund earlier this year.
Consistent with our normal process we will provide an update for estimated funding requirement for future years when we file our 2015 Form 10-K this coming February.
I will also note that we have essentially completed our financing plans for 2015 and our expected financing plans for 2016 do not include any issuance of long term debt until the middle of next year.
As Chuck said earlier 2015 is shaping up to be a strong and important year for FirstEnergy as we create a new frame work for our future.
We have raised our operating earnings guidance based on the success of our strategies and we are making solid progress towards our goals of building long-term value for shareholders through predictable customer focused regulated growth.
Now I would like to open the call for your questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a quick question I guess on Ohio PPA I am sure it will be a trend for the call but I believe the record closes today in Columbus does the closing of the record complicate the chances of a settlement since nothing new could be introduced.
I don’t think it complicates the opportunity for a settlement at all.
I think we have the opportunity to settle the case all the way through any final outcome actually.
So it closes the record as far as anything new being introduced into the record as far as testimony and rebuttal testimony but it doesn’t prohibit ongoing discussions.<br> Great thanks for taking my question.
Our next question is from Greg Orrill with Barclays Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah thank you.
May be a follow up there on generally how you are feeling about the process of negotiating the PPAs and whether you feel you have better likelihood of nuclear versus coal.
Well as I’ve said all along I think that the plan that we filed is the best plan for the customers in Ohio and we continue to work to educate the commission staff as best we can on why we believe that is the case.
I think we are continuing to discuss certain parameters around the filing but I would expect that as we go forward we are going to continue to talk about the PPA in somewhat the fashion that we filed it.
Now having said that there is always some room for negotiation but I think the whole idea here is we filed a plan that’s good for customers protects them over the long haul and at the end of the day as I’ve told - I’ve gone through the example of what happens when plants closed in the past it creates spending and transmission that customers pay for so I think this plan kind of is neutral to what the transmission spending would be and I still think that something that we can get through across goal line with.
And maybe just a question around the pension mark-to- market and kind of your treatment there and that doesn’t show up in the earnings guidance how are you thinking about that? Yeah Greg this is Jim.
It will not show up in our operating earnings guidance.
We have historically treated that as a mark-to-market in fact if you look at our consolidated report we have put a disclosure in there of what the range of potential impact or GAAP earnings would be if we would have marked that pension plan.
Effective September 30 our plan had a loss on our return on assets of about 3.5% and discount range was 4.25% so we put a range in there assuming that our assets return will remain at that level and the discount rate would be anywhere between 4.25% and 4.5%.
As you know October has been a very good month in the equity markets in fact it’s been probably one of the strongest months in history so the return on our assets has improved somewhat and if we had to mark that today our discount range would be in the 4.5% range.
So my expectation all things being equal if they don’t change from today that range that we gave of $0.30 to $0.67 it would be the lower end and in fact it may be less than $0.37 and may be less than 250 million that we disclosed.
From a funding stand point we have disclosed in the 10-K last year that it would be above 1.7 billion for the period ‘15 through ‘19.
We did contribute a 143 million this year.
From a funding standpoint we will have to see where the discount rate is and where the return on the assets are at the end of the year but I don’t expect anything to be materially different than what we disclosed in our 10-K in 2014.
Great thanks I would just follow on a little bit though Jim’s answered it.
I think we have been very open in disclosing what our pension funding obligations might be and the impact on our GAAP earnings but from the very beginning of me coming into this position one of the things we talked about was earnings quality and I think this quarter $0.94 and $0.98 GAAP versus non-GAAP.
We have really reduced that gap between GAAP and non-GAAP as I told you I would and I think our earnings quality for all three quarters is substantially improved and that’s the way we expect to operate going forward.
Thank you congratulations on the quarter Thanks.
Our next question is from Paul Zimbardo with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning another Ohio question if you will.
We have seen few data points on potential new bill in Ohio recently now just hoping you could comment on how if at all you see these developments impacting the discussion the Ohio mission that’s starting yeah.
I wouldn’t expect that they should have any impact on the discussion we are having with Ohio and there’s - conversely I don’t think the discussions we are having with Ohio should have any impact on any decisions for new builds because the construct of our energy security plan it has no impact on the competitive markets so I don’t think the two are linked at all.
Okay great and then unrelated question I noticed the revolver borrowing fund about a billion quarter-over-quarter could you comment on if this represents kind of change in how you see the financial structure? Yeah I am not sure that revolver borrowings increased a billion dollars quarter-over-quarter in fact if you look at our entire financing plan for the entire year we expect to increase debt just by above $350 million dollars year-over-year and most of that will be new long-term debt associated with the distribution and transmission business.
In fact our revolver borrowings at the end of the 2014 were about 1.8 billion and my expectation is that they are going to be right in that range maybe slightly less than that the by the end of the year.
So there is no real impact on our financing plans there.
Okay I just looked at the short-term borrowing declined a billion I know you’d mentioned in the past your trying to or considering terming - I thought you said that they were up and that was what was confusing me right.
Now they would be down.
Okay.
Sorry to clarify is that indication that you are trying to term more out or that’s just kind of normal fluctuation for the quarter.
A That’s normal fluctuation.
It’s not that we are terming any of that out.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Chris Turnure with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys I wanted to get a little bit more clarity on transmission CapEx going forward basically versus the current CapEx that you have laid out in your slides.
If you are successful with the I guess the innovation [ph] of the assets in New Jersey and Pennsylvania how can we think about directional potential changes there in magnitude? Well you’re going to have to wait for the analyst meeting.
We’ve talked about 4.2 billion of transmission spend four year period from ‘14 through ‘17 and at this point in time I am not prepared to say where we expect that number to be ‘18 and beyond but I think as we get through the Ohio ESP and then we see the company that we have a base to build upon after that.
I think when we have our Analyst Meeting we’ll talk to you more about what we expect to do in the future.
Okay.
And then on cost cutting you indicated that there is a potential to increase the numbers as you’ve laid them out right now the numbers are pretty meaningful over the next several years but they do mostly come from the unregulated side of the business.
Could you talk a little bit more in detail maybe about what you’re looking at that’s incremental to this and any opportunities more specifically on the regulated side of the business there? Well first off I wouldn’t expect them to be substantial and what I’ve kind of challenged the team to do is we need to continue to find efficiencies in this business that will offset any inflationary forces on our cost structure specific to the utility side of things in an environment where we’re investing in reliability improvements now pretty much across our footprint.
Taking cost out of the utilities doesn’t make sense right now.
So I wouldn’t expect to see a lot of it come out of the utilities.
We’re taking any incremental.
That doesn’t mean we’re not focusing on efficient spending in the utilities but as we create the efficiencies where recycling that back into more investment and more improved service for our customers rather than pulling it out and ultimately reducing the cost structure for the utilities.
Great thank you.
The next question is from Mr.
Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning guys.
First question for you just on the transmission guidance increase CapEx has been in line basically with plan but the earnings power from transmissions were 10% higher than you had budgeted for the year.
What are you ascribing that improvement to? And how should we think about capitalizing the new base line for ‘16 and beyond? Yeah this is Jim.
The way I would look at that Dan is that when we went into the year we had some relatively conservative assumptions because of the uncertainty with the forward-looking rates within ATSI not only the ROE but potential refunding in that.
So I would say our initial estimate was somewhat conservative.
And we also have a little higher rate base associated with in servicing some of the projects sooner than we had anticipated.
When I would compare say ‘16 to ‘15 clearly we’ll give you more guidance at our Analyst Meeting.
But I would say the headwinds we are going to face next year is we are going to have a lower ROE in ATSI.
So that’s going to impact our earnings somewhat and some of our transmission spend will be directed towards the former GPU companies where they’re still on standard rates and I would not look for me like rate recovery until beginning in 2017.
So I would consider probably ‘15 and ‘16 years to be somewhat flattish and then we will move on in ‘17 once we have the MAIT completed in investments going towards the GPU companies.
That was helpful.
Thank you.
On the demand response case the Supreme Court’s heard it now you guys are very vested in the process.
What was your read on what happened in this Supreme Court and then your expectations for when we’ll get a decision and then whatever adoptions that the PJM will have to make.
So I should have preempted all of these Q&amp;A by stating this.
I said earlier Leila is not here and I don’t think you want any of us other than Leila judging what’s happening at the Supreme Court.
So here is what I’ll do Dan Irene will talk with Leila and we’ll get back to you on that one but I just don’t feel comfortable asking - answering technical legal questions.
Okay that’s fair enough.
And then Jim looking back at the 10-K on the pension I know this is kind of still bubbling out there.
You guys had said out about $880 million for pension funding in ‘16 and ‘17 and then 646 in ‘18 ‘19 are those still realistic or is there a weighted shift some of the timing of that money being put to work? No those are still pretty much realistic and those are based on requirements.
Dan it’s not that we can shift money.
We could fund more earlier but you look at what your funding has to be over a seven-year period and so you have to fund at least that amount.
I don’t expect when we update that ‘16 and ‘17 will be much different than what we disclosed in our 10-K for 2014.
But we will just update some of the years based on where the return on the assets are and where the discount rate is.
The Senate had just passed the I guess I got the five partisan budget bill.
We had extended the funding or the smoothing requirements three additional years through 2020 so that will give some type of relief because you will be able to use your historical discount rate during those funding periods.
So that will lessen all things being equal our funding requirements over that period of time.
So your assumptions in the 10-K are reflective of the extension of the smoothing or would that lower that number? No the 10-K that we filed in 2014 did not take into account any of the changes to the smoothing and primarily that smoothing doesn’t impact our funding until year 2019.
Okay and then I guess just on the financing side of it you guys have been keen not to talk about equity needs and that sort of thing but should we expect more comprehensive planning update at the Analyst and would that then include whatever you would have to fund for the pension perspective? Yeah I think that’s the whole game plan Dan.
Let’s get Ohio behind us one way or another find out where that leaves us.
We know pretty much where capacity performance landed and we know we’ve done internally to strengthen our cash flows.
I think at that point in time we are going to give you more of a view towards the future.
Two thousand and fifteen has been all about kind of strengthening the base that we want to build from.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Good morning.
Yeah.
Okay.
Just as a follow-up on Ohio for a second if you guys were to get a settlement what would the process be in terms of after that? I mean would there be - I assume comments there would be and stuff on that and how much time before after a settlement do you think it would take for approval of that settlement to take place? Yes there would be an opportunity for comment.
I expect we are going to end up at the same place here regardless of a settlement which is an outcome that’s finalized early next year.
Okay and by early you mean first couple of months.
I would think so yeah.
Okay.
And then in terms of the pension funding could you remind me how much the breakdown is between regulated and non-regulated with that obligation? I would say that probably about 60% of the unfunded would reside in the regulated companies.
Okay.
And then you mentioned some intriguing step about the energy efficiency in lighting and the deployment of that’s been a little bit more aggressive than what you previously have thought.
I’m just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on that in terms of what sectors you are seeing that in and what customer classes? From my standpoint the biggest impact has been in the residential sector.
We’ve seen somewhat in commercial typically commercial customers will move towards more energy efficient products sooner than residential.
But when you think about the lighting the Federal Energy Efficiency Lighting standards kicked in 2015.
You can’t buy an incandescent bulb right now and we’ve always expected that we would see some impact to our residential usage associated with that.
It’s just happening a little bit faster than we had originally planned on our original load forecast.
How much - I guess why is that do you think? And because like you said all the stuff is sort of known.
I mean what do you - can you give us a little bit more flavors to how much more that you are seeing and why you think you are seeing it? It’s hard for me to talk about customer behavior especially this early on but my suspicion is that the cost of these bulbs are coming down and they are being offered in a number of stores and consumers are just switching those bulbs sooner than we thought they would be.
And as we said we are looking at this pretty closely right now and we should have a better view on that when we come to the Analyst Meeting.
But as we said we automatically knew that this was going to happen.
It’s just maybe happening a little sooner than we expected.
Okay.
And we’ll find out obviously in the Analyst Meeting what it means for energy - for the energy efficiency but I would suggest that you guys are expecting to see more sooner than previously thought.
Is that --? Yeah we’ll have that build into the load forecast we have.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
I just had a real quick question about CES fourth quarter drivers.
I think I’ve done math right recalling looking for a flattish quarter versus 4Q last year after you had a nice pickup in the third quarter here? Yeah I would say during the fourth quarter we would expect that the earnings would be pretty much flat quarter-over-quarter.
We’re getting a big capacity pick-up aren’t we? Yeah we are but we have Beaver Valley that’s out essentially in an entire month of October.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
I just have one left.
On the LTIP that was filed in Pennsylvania a couple of weeks ago it implies from the release that’s a quarterly rate rider.
Is that a done deal? I mean is that legislation or is that - you took commission [indiscernible] another utility that’s done that? You are pretty confident you will get that quarterly rider? Well the way the process works in Pennsylvania as you file a long-term infrastructure improvement plan which pretty much details the types of investments and the impact for customers that you expect to achieve.
The Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission reviews the LTIP Once they review and approve the plan then recovery under the distribution system plus recovery rider is essentially it’s a legislative recovery and it’s essentially very certain [ph] after that.
So as long as we spend what we say we were going to spend and do what we say we’re going to do.
Okay.
That was the only question I had.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and congrats on a good quarter.
Chuck just going back to the expectations of getting this case done by early next year is it fair to assume that - are you able to reach a settlement it should come in the next month or so? I’m not going to handicap it Ashar.
I mean we’re working every day talking on the phone Leila is down there meeting with the staff today working through a lot of complex issues and it’s a very complex case.
So I don’t want to put pressure on Leila nor on the Commission staff or any other parties that we are talking with.
We just keep working through the process.
And I believe that there is an opportunity for an ultimate settlement because I think that we are getting to the point where everybody is starting to really understand why it’s good for customers.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Just a couple of quick questions one on CS when we look at 2017 fact book and we look at the breakdown of the hedges and the contracted revenues that you have it looks like there is a significant proportion that’s clearly open right now 36 terawatt hours that’s committed sales and the rest is open.
Do you expect more committed sales to happen in the buckets of the MM MCI OCI GA [indiscernible] those structures? Do you expect more contracting or committed sales to happen in 2017 for that? Or is it generally all going to flow into the wholesale bucket? The first item is it does not contemplate PPA scenario at all.
So we are successful in getting the PPAs done.
That will reduce by about half.
Yeah.
Donny go ahead.
Yeah yeah Chuck is absolutely right.
With the PPA we only have about 3 terawatt hours open in the front half of ‘17 and about 16 terawatt hours in the back half and to answer your question with the PPA we would move that into our sales channels regardless of the PPA we would move it into the sales channels we wouldn’t take it all to the wholesale market.
Without the PPA you’ve got a 41 terawatt hours again more heavily weighted on the back half of ‘17.
Got you and that 41 terawatt hours if there is no PPA would be moving into the wholesale bucket? No no.
We would move it into our LCI or [indiscernible] channels.
Wholesale is kind of our last resort if you will because we don’t make much margin on that.
So of the 80 or so terawatt hours in total approximately 40 would be committed in the non-PPA scenario? No we would still hold some back for the spot market.
We would hold back by about 15 to 20 terawatt hours in the spot market.
Got you.
So what is the total committed sales you would expect in the non-PPA scenario for 2017? So it would be about 75 minus 15 or 20 so about 55 terawatt hours.
I got you.
Okay got it.
What Donny is describing is we are going to run that business kind of like a utility.
We are going to sell forward two-thirds to three-fourths of our available generation.
We are going to keep as he said 15 to 20 megawatt hours opened to use as what I refer to as reserve margin to ensure ourselves against weather days cold weather days to ensure ourselves against a unit.
It doesn’t perform as expected and essentially be able to deliver more consistent earnings out of that sector than what we have been able to do in the past because we were exposed to volatility and we were exposed to poor performance by our generating fleet.
Fair enough.
Sorry go ahead.
As you said if you look at our fact book on slide 98 page 49 it lays out those sales channels and our ranges around it.
Yeah now got it exactly.
I’m just saying that I looked at the fact book for 2017 that 36 terawatt hours of committed sales and I was just trying to bridge to what would it look like in naturally 2017 if you had no PPA and that was helpful color that you gave me.
Sure.
If I would have bridged to that number that you just said as you exit certain [indiscernible] contracts how did that shape like the 2017 committed sales? I’m just trying to understand what would be the proportions of the different buckets as you kind of think about in a non-PPA scenario what it would look like with the committed sales? Yeah so I would say in a non-PPA scenario if you look at our 2016 EBITDA slide that’s going to give you the pretty good proportions and we are not intending to change those proportions.
Fair enough.
Got you.
Okay thank you and then finally just a quick question on NOLs.
I know that NOLs clearly help from a deferred tax perspective right now.
Do you still kind of see them as a 2017-18 timeframe kind of full utilization of NOLs? Yeah our expectation is that well first bonus depreciation we think it’s likely to be extended through the ‘15 and ‘16 timeframe.
That’s not part of the budget bill but it’s typically done usually at the end of the year in an extender.
If the bonus depreciation is not extended then we’ll likely expire our NOLs around the end of 2018 or into 2019.
Assuming bonus depreciation is extended then we could go out further into the 2020 timeframe.
Again that would be impacted by the resolution of the Ohio ESP.
Understood got it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Ryan Caylor with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Morning.
Just back to the Ohio PPA real quick just a quick question on timing AP [ph] on their Q3 2015 earnings call they gave I guess a year end 2015 expectations for a final order for their PPA.
I guess it’s our understanding that you guys are further long in the process right? So I mean is that difference in timing a matter of AP just being you know I guess a little more aggressive relative to your kind of early Q1 2016 timeline or any color there relative to AP would be helpful? Thanks.
Well I would say that I think we are all just kind of trying to speculate about what could happen.
We are being a little more conservative maybe then the AP in there traditionally there is not going to get a lot done in December after Thanks Giving for our RKs to get settled by the end of this calendar year they have to work pretty hard pretty much the whole month of December I think to meet the time tables so we are just expecting likely to get done after the first three year.
Got it.
That’s helpful thanks.
Okay well I don’t see any more questions on our call so I want to thank you all very much for your support and just say look forward to you in a week from Monday at EEI and I am sure we will go through all these questions again.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And we thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the FirstEnergy Corp.
Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Meghan Beringer Director of Investor Relations for FirstEnergy Corp.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you Adam and good morning.
Welcome to FirstEnergy's fourth quarter earnings call.
We will make various forward-looking statements today regarding revenues earnings performance strategies and prospects.
These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such statements can be found on the Investor section of our website under the Earnings Information link and in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are also available on our website.
Please note that on the Investor Relations page of our website we have also included a slide presentation that will follow this morning's discussions.
Participating in today's call are Chuck Jones President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Pearson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Leila Vespoli Executive Vice President Markets and Chief Legal Officer; Donnie Schneider President of FirstEnergy Solutions; Jon Taylor Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Steve Staub Vice President and Treasurer and Irene Prezelj Vice President Investor Relations.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chuck Jones.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Meghan.
Good morning everyone.
I'm glad you're able to join us.
I'm excited to share the results from an important and productive year for FirstEnergy.
In 2015 we made tremendous progress on major initiatives across our company.
We put a number of obstacles behind us and completed critical work necessary to implement our regulated growth strategy going forward.
At the same time we consistently met our financial commitments to you.
Last night we reported operating earnings of $0.58 per share for the fourth quarter and $2.71 per share for the year.
These results which reflect improved operations at our Competitive business as well as growth in our Transmission business are above our initial guidance range for 2015 and in line with the revised estimates that we provided during our third quarter call despite the mild weather we experienced in the fourth quarter.
For the first quarter of 2016 we have provided operating earnings guidance of $0.75 to $0.85 per share.
As we will discuss later we intend to provide additional guidance once we have an outcome in our Ohio Electric Security Plan.
Before we move to Jim's financial review I'll take a few minutes to discuss the key events from 2015.
First we removed regulatory uncertainty and important steps to position our regulated utilities for growth with the conclusion of rate cases in West Virginia New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
Resolving these cases allows us to plan for additional infrastructure and reliability investments at those utilities.
In Pennsylvania we took that next step by filing Long Term Infrastructure Improvement Plans for each of our four operating companies in October.
These plans which were approved by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission last week outline a projected increase in capital investment of nearly $245 million over five years to help strengthen upgrade and modernize our Pennsylvania distribution systems.
Yesterday we filed for approval to implement a distribution system improvement charge at each of the four operating companies which will allow us to recover quarterly costs associated with the capital projects approved in the LTIIPs.
In Ohio we achieved an important milestone for our latest Electric Security Plan by reaching a settlement agreement with the staff of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio and 16 other parties including EnerNOC an energy management solutions provider Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy a low income customer advocacy group and IGS Energy an independent energy supplier.
The agreement outlines the ambitious steps to safeguard Ohio customers against retail price increases and volatility in future years deploy new energy efficiency programs and provide a clear path to a cleaner energy future by reducing carbon emissions.
Our settlement includes an eight-year retail rate stability rider associated with the proposed Purchased Power Agreement.
This provision will help protect customers against rising retail prices and market volatility while helping preserve vital base load power plants that serve Ohio customers and provide thousands of jobs in the state.
The PPA includes the Sammis Plant in Stratton Ohio the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station in Oak Harbor Ohio which recently received approval from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a 20-year license extension and a portion of the output of two OVEC plants.
The procedural schedule for our Ohio case is nearly complete with hearings concluded initial briefs filed and reply briefs due next Friday.
A decision from the PUCO is expected in March.
Clearly there is a lot of talk about the PPA as all interested parties seek to have their voices heard.
We firmly believe that our plan serves the best interests of Ohio customers and Ohio communities while supporting competitive markets in the state and PJM.
This generation will continue to be offered into PJM's energy and capacity markets and the PPA will have no impact on our standard service offer or customers' ability to shop for their retail electric supply.
In fact we expect that the output from these plants will be treated no differently than the 20% of regulated generation that currently clears in the PJM markets and that 20% does not include imports into PJM which from MISO would be primarily regulated generation.
I'm sure you'll have lots of questions about the legal and regulatory process and Leila's standing by to share our perspective during the Q&amp;A.
We believe our plan is the right one for Ohio and we remain very optimistic in the outcome both in Ohio and at FERC.
Let's turn to our Transmission business.
We just passed the halfway point of the first phase of our Energizing the Future transmission investment initiative to meet the reliability needs of our customers and communities.
We remain on track to meet our target of $4.2 billion in spending during the 2014 through 2017 timeframe.
Consistent with our plan we spent $2.4 billion in 2014 and 2015 including $986 million last year on projects to address service reliability grid modernization and growth.
We completed major initiatives to address last year's Northeast Ohio plant deactivations and brought online critical new infrastructure to support midstream gas operations in our region.
Work in 2016 is expected to include $1 billion in investments on projects such as synchronous condensers at our Eastlake Plant new line construction projects in West Virginia and New Jersey Static Var Compensator projects in Pennsylvania New Jersey and West Virginia and several new substations line rebuilds and reconductoring projects.
While expansion in the shale markets has cooled we expect investments over the next several years of about $150 million for work that is already in the pipeline.
We also addressed several matters in 2015 that support future investment in this important long-term growth platform.
During the fourth quarter FERC approved our settlement for a forward-looking formula rate structure at our ATSI subsidiary which permits more timely recovery of our investments.
In addition in June we filed to create a new subsidiary named Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission or MAIT.
This subsidiary would hold the transmission assets of Met-Ed Penelec and JCP&amp;L and facilitate new investments that can improve service reliability for those customers.
Our proposal is on FERC's agenda for tomorrow and we are seeking approval from both the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission and the New Jersey Bureau of Public Utilities by the middle of the year.
These structural changes are important steps to ensure timely recovery of our investments and set the stage for continued growth through our Energizing the Future transmission initiative.
Turning to our Competitive operations the PJM capacity market reforms approved by FERC have already begun to have a positive impact on the capacity auction process although the markets continue to fall well short of being compensatory for long-lived capital assets like base load generation units.
Our revised competitive strategy focusing on stabilizing the business by reducing risk also produced positive results.
In 2015 we sold 75 million megawatt-hours while significantly reducing our exposure to weather-sensitive load and executing a rigorous commitment to economically dispatching our units.
As a result we mitigated the impact of severe weather in the first quarter of 2015 and achieved adjusted EBITDA of $949 million.
This is in line with the revised guidance that we provided in October and reflects solid operational results as well as the impact of our Cash Flow Improvement Project.
We are holding off on providing adjusted EBITDA guidance for 2017 and 2018 until our Analyst Meeting following the PUCO decision in Ohio.
However we are reaffirming both our 2016 adjusted EBITDA guidance range for the Competitive business of $950 million to $1.05 billion and our expectation that the business will be cash flow positive each year through at least 2018.
Before I move from our Competitive segment I'll mention that given the significant decline in the global coal market we impaired our investment in the Signal Peak mine resulting in a $362 million pre-tax noncash charge which Jim will cover in more detail.
Finally I'll spend a few moments discussing our Cash Flow Improvement Plan and other financial matters.
We took a very important step to improve our financial metrics and balance sheet in 2015 through the launch of the Cash Flow Improvement Project.
This initiative began in the spring with a goal to capture meaningful and sustainable savings opportunities and process improvements across the company while continuing to fully meet the needs of our customers our organization and our employees.
I'm very pleased with the results of this effort to-date.
We are on track to capture $155 million in savings this year and $240 million annually by 2017 up from our initial goal of $200 million over the timeframe.
The results from this initiative will allow us to essentially hold our O&amp;M flat through 2017.
We put a lot of risk behind us in 2015 including key initiatives that provide our company with greater strength and flexibility as we pursue our regulated growth plans.
I'm also gratified by the response from the rating agencies.
In December citing our shift in strategy and more credit friendly business risk profile Fitch revised its outlook from stable to positive.
Days later Moody's affirmed its Baa3 rating with a stable outlook for FirstEnergy Corp.
FES and Allegheny Energy Supply citing our Ohio ESP settlement.
Over the past year I've gotten to know many of you and I've shared my leadership philosophy including my commitment to make our company more transparent.
I hope you've seen that in action over the past year.
I've told you one of our primary objectives is to improve the quality of our earnings.
This year two significant noncash adjustments got in the way.
The annual mark-to-market for pension and OPEB will remain an annual adjustment either up or down and the impairment of the Signal Peak coal mine is required given the current market for coal and the fact that this isn't a core asset for us.
Outside of these two items earnings quality in 2015 was very solid and is supported with operational cash flows that showed a $700 million improvement over 2014.
We are making solid progress and once we have an outcome in our Ohio ESP we should be in a position to provide 2016 full-year earnings expectations and shed more light on the next couple of years including our regulated growth projections and any future equity needs to support our growth initiatives.
It remains our priority to continue strengthening our balance sheet and further de-risk our Competitive business.
These steps will help ensure we are well positioned to pursue the next period of regulated growth and success benefiting our 6 million customers and the local economies we serve our investors and our employees.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a brief review of the quarter.
As always we reserved plenty of time for your questions before the end of the hour.
Thanks Chuck and good morning everyone.
As always I will remind you that detailed information about the quarter can be found in the consolidated report that was posted to our website yesterday evening.
We also welcome your questions during the Q&amp;A or following the call.
Our fourth quarter operating earnings of $0.58 per share compares to $0.80 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
On a GAAP basis we recorded a loss of $0.53 per share for the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to a loss of $0.73 per share during the same period last year.
2015 fourth quarter GAAP results include special items totaling $1.11 per share.
I'll spend a few moments on two of those items before moving to the review of operating results.
The first of these is the impairment charge related to our investment in the Signal Peak mine.
As Chuck mentioned earlier on the call given the weak market for coal globally in the fourth quarter we wrote off our investment in Global Holding the parent company of Signal Peak resulting in a noncash pre-tax charge of $362 million or $0.56 per share which reduced the value of this investment to zero.
As some of you may remember back in 2011 FirstEnergy sold a portion of its ownership interest in Signal Peak receiving $258 million in cash proceeds and recognizing a $370 million after-tax gain which included a sizeable step-up in the one-third interest we retained.
Presently the mine remains operational and FirstEnergy continues to provide a full guarantee on Global Holding's $300 million term loan.
Since this investment is no longer a strategic fit for FirstEnergy we have moved the earnings associated with Signal Peak from our Competitive segment to Corporate/Other for all periods.
The second special item is the $0.35 per share annual pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment another noncash item.
As discussed in our third quarter call we anticipated this charge given the plan's investment performance which was partially offset by a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate.
I will note that for 2016 we have $381 million in required minimum pension funding with $160 million already contributed to the plan last month.
Let's spend some time walking through the fourth quarter drivers by business units followed by a brief review of the full year.
In our Distribution business total deliveries decreased 6% in the quarter or 2% on a weather-adjusted basis.
Residential sales decreased 10.6% and commercial sales decreased 3.4% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our region saw the mildest fourth quarter temperatures in at least 35 years with heating degree days that were nearly 30% below both last year and normal.
The decrease in customer use also reflects the adoption of energy efficient lighting and the impact of other energy efficiency measures.
We continue to analyze these efficiency trends and we plan to discuss the expected impact on our load forecast over the next few years when we hold our Analyst Meeting.
Sales to industrial customers decreased 3.9% in the quarter as a result of lower usage from our steel mining chemical electrical equipment and manufacturing customers partially offset by increased usage from the shale gas and automotive sectors.
Distribution results were also impacted by higher operating expenses which included planned reliability spend in the quarter primarily at JCP&amp;L.
In our Transmission business fourth quarter operating earnings increased as a result of higher revenue associated with a higher rate base and ATSI's forward-looking rate structure which became effective in January 2015 partially offset by a lower return on equity at ATSI as part of its comprehensive settlement that was approved by FERC in October.
In our Competitive business we recorded strong fourth quarter operating earnings as higher commodity margin was offset with higher operating expenses.
The impact of lower contract sales was offset by higher capacity revenues lower purchased power fuel and transmission expenses and increased sales to the wholesale market reflecting our more open position.
Operating costs for the Competitive business were higher in the fourth quarter of 2015 primarily due to expenses related to the nuclear refueling outage at Beaver Valley Unit 2.
Finally at Corporate a higher effective income tax rate and higher interest and operating expenses reduced operating earnings by $0.08 in line with our expectations.
Now I'll take a couple of minutes to discuss full year results and review the key earnings drivers for 2015.
Operating earnings were $2.71 per share compared to $2.56 in 2014.
GAAP earnings were $1.37 per share in 2015 compared to $0.71 in the prior year.
At our Regulated Distribution utilities 2015 operating earnings were in line with our guidance.
The net benefit of resolved rate cases and generally favorable weather was offset primarily by higher operating expenses associated with planned reliability maintenance.
Total distribution deliveries decreased about 1% compared to 2014.
In the Industrial segment sales declined primarily due to decreased steel and mining production.
Sales to residential and commercial customers were essentially flat compared to the prior year.
In the Regulated Transmission segment operating earnings increased primarily as a result of a higher rate base and a forward-looking rate structure at ATSI in the company's Regulated Transmission business.
In our Competitive business operating earnings increased significantly primarily due to improved commodity margin related to higher capacity prices.
Adjusted EBITDA was $949 million in line with our expectations.
You'll recall that we began the effort to reposition our sales portfolio in the second quarter of 2014.
Our total retail customer count at the end of 2015 was 1.6 million a decrease of 445 000 customers from December 31 2014.
We sold about 75 million megawatt hours in 2015 including 68 million megawatt hours of contract sales and an additional 7 million megawatt hours of wholesale.
We currently have about 61 million megawatt hours committed for 2016 and for 2017 about 38 million megawatt hours are committed or about half of our expected generation resources.
The Ohio PPA would add approximately 23 million megawatt hours on an annual basis which would essentially close our sales positions through the first half of 2017.
In the Corporate segment 2015 operating earnings were consistent with our guidance reflecting higher interest and operating expenses as well as a more normal effective income tax rate.
2015 should be recognized as a pivotal year for our company.
We were able to raise the operating earnings guidance that we provided reduce risk and build a solid platform for regulated growth.
We're confident that our efforts will help us reach our goal of creating long-term value for FirstEnergy shareholders.
Now I'd like to open the call up for your questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I wanted to discuss transmission spending opportunities.
In your fact book I think it's slide 45 you talk about a review of the reliability in your ATSI system.
And maybe that should be phrased more broadly but just wanted to check-in in terms of as you assess transmission needs replacement of 69-kV lines 138-kV lines what is your sense in terms of the potential for additional spending to enhance reliability in transmission in particular? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Stephen we've talked about this a little bit in the past.
Our team has identified in excess of $15 billion worth of projects that we could execute all on our existing 24 000 miles of transmission lines.
And that's our focus.
And what we do with those projects is we prioritize them in the best way to drive benefits for customers.
And my view is the best investments we can make are the ones that customers are willing to pay for and that you all are willing to invest in.
So the opportunity is there for us to make these kind of investments for a long time; the ability to add on an annual basis to that is a little bit challenged by the availability of a transmission construction work force in our country.
So I wouldn't expect that you would see a huge increase on an annual basis but you could extrapolate out quite a bit into the future how long we can continue to execute this program.
That's very helpful.
That makes sense.
And wanted to shift over to the Ohio PPA discussions.
I'm sure there will be many questions on this.
At the FERC level I guess comments are due February 23 or thereabouts and I know this is obviously not your preferred outcome but if the FERC case were to go in opposition to the PPAs could you talk a little bit about what the implications might be understanding again that that's not your preferred outcome? Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> Oh hi Stephen.
This is Leila.
So I don't think it would be the likely outcome either but – so let me spend a couple of seconds just kind of recount for the group what that would have actually entailed to get to that place.
So right now we have an affiliate waiver and the basis upon which it was granted those items have not changed.
If you think about it Ohio still the customers are not captive.
They can shop.
There hasn't been a law change.
That means that the Ohio Commission is still in order to approve the PPA would have to find that the ESP is better than the MRO.
They would still be protecting customers.
So if you look at those kind of things again I don't think that it's something that the FERC should rescind if you would.
But if they were to do that what would happen – they would likely apply the Edgar rule.
So you could look at the different provisions of how they look at that.
There's several ways to comply with the Edgar rule and one of them looks at non-price terms and conditions.
So we would be looking at a hearing dealing with our PPA and I think there are a lot of things that could be said around the non-term price and conditions that would allow the pricing to stand as well.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Orrill from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Two questions.
The first one is regarding the Competitive business guidance for 2016.
And I guess it was the same as it was in the third quarter look despite the fact that wholesale power prices are down.
Could you talk about what the drivers there were? FirstEnergy Solutions (<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FES" title="Forbes Energy Services Ltd.">FES</a>) FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.</span></strong> Sure Gregg.
This is Donnie.
If you take a look at our slide 104 of the fact book you can see the EBITDA guidance.
And as you clearly indicated the fall-off in prices we reflected that in our open position.
We're down about $3 there.
But we've also lowered our costs especially our fossil fuel.
We went back and took another hard look at some of the things we'd done in CFIP.
We were able to lower that.
Net of those two things the lower revenue from the decline in the open position net of what we've been able to do on the cost side our commodity margin's only down about $15 million which is well in the range of our EBITDA.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And then regarding the equity needs can you talk about your thoughts there in light of some of the write-offs and funding needs that you have? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I've said pretty consistently that we have set a goal of strengthening our balance sheet and getting to where we need to get with the rating agencies without having to use any equity to do that.
And I just don't believe that that is the intent of shareholder equity.
We've worked very hard this past year.
I talked about the results of CFIP.
We've also made improvements in other parts of our operation and then we've got the entire Ohio ESP to get a resolution on before I think we're in any position to talk about what future equity needs might be.
We talked about $245 million of incremental investment in Pennsylvania distribution.
Under the Ohio ESP there's an extension of the DCR rider plus potential opportunities to invest in increasing the smart distribution network in Ohio.
Along with transmission with ATSI transmission with MAIT what we need to do and what we plan to do is communicate to you what type of regulated growth rate we're going to strive for going forward once we have these last remaining questions done.
And then any equity needs are going to be driven off of that.
They are not going to be driven off of a need for equity to deal with any of the financial issues that we've been trying to wrestle to the ground this last year.
They will only be used for growth and that's our intent.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> What's your current thinking around when the Ohio Commission will rule and kind of what's your outlook for potential that – that schedule getting delayed? And if it were delayed beyond the PJM auction how would it impact your bidding behavior? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as I said in my comments we're expecting an answer from the Ohio Commission in March.
And so I don't think it's going to affect our bidding behavior one way or another.
Our Competitive generating business bids in our Competitive fleet.
We have regulated generation in West Virginia already that is bid by a regulated generation group.
The two do not talk as required by FERC's Standards of Conduct.
This generation will get bid in by one of those two groups depending on which side of the fence it's on.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you remind us what the original investment in Signal Peak was? We made an original cash contribution about $150 million.
Inc.</span></strong> And you sold a piece for what you said $230 million? Yes.
That's – we sold 50% of our interest and we had a cash proceeds of about $234 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
I'm good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Dan.
First question just on – a couple of cash flow questions for you guys first off.
How should we think about bonus depreciation affecting kind of the cash flows coming back in? And how does that get treated at the different utilities/transmission assets as far as adjusting rate base? Dan this is Jim.
Bonus depreciation we were already in a large NOL position through the 2018 and 2019 period so this is just going to extend that beyond 2021.
Obviously these years will change somewhat with the approval of the PPA scenario.
On the earnings side it's really a modest impact from a rate base reduction.
We'll see a little bit on the transmission side and certain of our other jurisdictions that have formula like rate recovery such as the DCR in Ohio.
But I would say the impact to our earnings rate base is going to be minimal.
So should we assume – what kind of cash tax rate are you guys assuming through 2021? Are you at an AMT or sub-AMT level then? VP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Hey Dan.
This is Jon Taylor.
We're at the AMT level.
Okay.
Got it.
And then I guess on the pension side did I read it correctly from the last quarter slides this quarter slides that your pension expenses are up about $55 million in 2016 versus 2015 on a pre-tax basis? Yeah Dan.
Two things that are driving that; first is we had a 25 basis point decrease in the return on assets.
So we took that down from 7.75% to 7.5%.
And then we also saw a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate which would increase our interest costs.
So the two of those was about $50 million.
Okay.
Got it.
And I guess if we look at the kind of from the K the five-year funding plans or obligations for pension are up about $600 million through the five-year running period from last K to this K.
Do you guys see any funding obligations around that? Or is it – because this is kind of beyond 2016 we'll wait and see what happens in the interest rate environment between here and there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Dan what we have out there and you're right our five-year required contributions are about $500 million higher than what the five-year required contributions were in the 2014 10-K.
Our actuary Aon they recalibrate that annually.
And at this point these are fundings that we would be required to make.
As we said we have a $381 million contribution required in 2016.
We've already made $160 million in January.
2017 we have a $439 million pension contribution.
That's down somewhat from where we were in the 2014 10-K where we had $555 million but again that's associated with our actuary recalibrating when our payments are required and some of those payments were moved out to a future year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I guess just last one on the ESP side in Ohio.
Does it become a friction point where you have to have a decision in order to implement rates before ESP3 goes away? And how much time or how much cushion do you guys need between PUCO making a decision and you guys being ready to implement? Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> So yes.
So it does become that point but I think it's going to be a moot question because I fully expect the Commission to act in March.
So a decision in March gives you plenty of time.
Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> Correct.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We can here you.
Excellent.
So let me just follow up on what Dan was asking there.
First on the bonus depreciation point can you elaborate a little bit more on the earnings impact rather than the cash flow? And think about what it does separately to the Transmission and the Distribution side as you think about perhaps the next round of rate case and/or FERC filing? At this point Julien I would say that the impact on each of the segments would just be pennies.
It would not be material at all.
Got it.
Could you elaborate why that would be just be clear just as you think about? Is that principally because you haven't filed or you don't necessary have a meaningful distribution case contemplated? Yeah.
At this point on the Distribution side it would only impact the utilities that we have formula-like rates considering the DCR in Ohio.
We have rates that are in effect in all of our other jurisdictions will likely be looking to go in for rates in New Jersey and Pennsylvania but that will not be – we won't see changes to our rates probably until the 2017 timeframe at this point but we'll give you more clarification on that when we have our Analyst Day Meeting.
And just to clarify Analyst Day expectations if there is indeed an issue at FERC I suppose a you would expect to host your Analyst Day would be in terms of providing guidance should we continue to expect EBITDA guidance kind of status quo as you laid out? If the 206 is successful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Well I think here's where we're at.
We're going to wait till we get the outcome in Ohio.
Once we have that then we're going to give you a little clearer guidelines on what we're expecting in terms of our Analyst Meeting.
One way or another we're going to be giving you guidance for 2016 that includes the ESP or doesn't include the ESP based on where we're at at that point in time.
Got it.
And then lastly on the Signal Peak assets what's the situation in terms of the servicing the debt just the guarantee there? If you can just elaborate in terms of the assets itself? Okay Julien.
This is Jim.
From servicing the debt the mine continues to service that debt.
The only time that we would have a change there is if we become more of a full-time owner of the mine if we would have control of over 50% of that.
The first step we would have to do is likely consolidate that debt on to our balance sheet.
Right now it's not consolidated because we're only a 33% owner.
And then ultimately if there was a capital call that the other owners were not able to fulfill that would also likely require us to make that capital call.
At the end of that $300 million $100 million is purely ours because we own a 33% interest in that and once we understand fully what happens to the mine if it would happen to shut down then we would be responsible to fill that obligation to the banks.
The balance of the obligation.
That's correct.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Just on a quick question here.
In terms of the PPA associated generation how much of that if you could remind me cleared in the 2018/2019 auction? FirstEnergy Solutions (<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FES" title="Forbes Energy Services Ltd.">FES</a>) FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.</span></strong> This is Donny Paul.
So Sammis and Beaver Valley it all cleared in the 2018/2019 auction.
I'm sorry Sammis and Davis-Besse it all cleared in the 2018/2019 auction.
Okay.
And then you guys brought up sort of an interesting issue here in terms of how your generation in the PPA would be similar to regulated generation et cetera.
And I don't recall when the Harrison Plant acquisition by the regulated affiliate in Virginia was – or West Virginia excuse me was being purchased this much of an issue in terms of opposition et cetera from generators et cetera.
Why do you think in this case it's being so much more of an issue than it would be in the Harrison case when it sounds to me and correct me if I'm wrong the economics would kind of be similar in terms of the impact on the market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I am at a complete loss for why it is such a big issue for others because I do think it is financially the same as what happened with Harrison.
These units will no longer supply retail load.
They will no longer supply polar load.
They are not going to influence the competitive market in any way.
So I'm at a complete loss for why it has generated such adamant opposition other than potentially misery loves company.
Okay.
Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> And if I could add on just a little bit to that.
So if you think about the parade of horribles that EPSA and others highlighted in their complaint to FERC they talked about if you let these generating units look regulated have in effect what they called an out of market subsidy that would crash the marketplace.
Well if you think about PJM as Chuck alluded to earlier 20% of PJM is already regulated.
And that doesn't even include the FRR entities.
And if you think about what they were talking about the bidding aspect of this it's public information that prior to capacity performance three-quarters so 75% of the megawatts in the PJM capacity auctions bid at zero.
So they bid at price takers.
And after CP it was about roughly half.
But if you think about it with the new penalty that what you associated with that penalty should kind of be your new zero.
So I would suggest that the new price takers is actually even higher than 50%.
So what that would suggest is some of the generators who actually filed this and complained so loudly saying that it was going to crash the market they themselves actually bid into the capacity market at zero.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just on the...
Hey Paul and just to be clear on the capacity I said it all cleared.
In actuality when you look at our fact book on slide 119 you'd see that there were 525-megawatts in ATSI that did not clear.
And...
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
A slice of that may be at Sammis and Davis-Besse but essentially it all cleared.
What do you – why would a slice of it not (44:20) I guess? Well to the degree we bid all of our units on a curve there could be a slice that didn't clear.
Okay.
That would be Sammis and Davis-Besse? Yeah generally we bid all of our units on a curve Paul.
Okay.
But I mean I guess what I'm wondering though is that of the PPA-affiliated plants some of it may have cleared and some of it may not have cleared.
Is that correct? It would not look any different than the rest of our unregulated plants Paul.
Okay.
Just to get back to Julien's question on the – just to make sure I understand on the Global Holding guarantee the $300 million.
It wasn't clear to me exactly how much on the hook you guys are if the Signal Peak mine becomes uneconomic or unable to – and you don't get the capital calls from third parties.
How much would be the total risk that you guys may or may not have? I'm just – it wasn't clear completely.
The total amount would be $300 million less any types of proceeds that we could get from the sale of the mine.
So if we cannot sell the mine for anything the maximum would be $300 million.
Okay.
Assuming that there is some value to the mine we would be able to use those proceeds to reduce that amount of exposure.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Just two quick questions I guess on the PPA is first do you think FERC rules before the May PJM auction? And second you had mentioned the waiver earlier that you have a waiver between your utility and competitive generation.
Is the waiver unique to a particular PPA or is it I guess for any PPA that goes between your utility and competitive businesses? Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> This is Leila.
So it covers all the transactions between the utilities and the affiliates.
And again the basis upon which it was granted the circumstances haven't changed.
The Commission still retains the ability to protect customers.
And I apologize I forgot your first question? Just do you think FERC rules before the auction in May? Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> Oh whether it will rule I'm sorry.
Yes.
Nothing's carved in stone and they don't have to.
EPSA asked for expedited treatment but most people believe that they will act before the auction and probably act on the filed paper as opposed to holding a hearing.
That would be my best guess.
Just quickly then has FERC ever reversed policy and revoked a waiver? Markets &amp; Chief Legal Officer</span></strong> I don't know the entire history but I could tell you what FERC has done with regard to captive customers and shopping.
FERC on several occasions has been asked to kind of look behind the curtain and opine whether a state's particular flavor of retail choice is what they would agree with or not.
And FERC has consistently said no as long as they're not captive customers as long as they can shop then we're not going to try and second guess what commissions do.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Praful Mehta from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
Hi guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Sorry to go on the PPA question again but I'm just trying to understand the other side.
And I know this is clearly not the preferred path but if the PPA does get cancelled for whichever partner or how it gets cancelled I'm just trying to paint a picture first from an equity needs perspective and also from a strategic fit perspective.
As in if you do see the PPA getting cancelled is there any view on how the equity need requirement changes especially to support the credit? And secondly strategically do you see this business as still a fit within FE? Or do you look to do an exit in some form at some point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first off we have not communicated any earnings guidance for full year 2016 whether the PPA gets done or not and I'm not going to do that here this morning.
What I've said is we will deal with that outcome when we have it and we will communicate at that time what our earnings guidance for 2016 is what our future growth plans for the utilities are what our future equity needs might be if anything to support that growth.
So I think you're just going to have to be patient and wait for the outcome and then we'll tell you where we're at at that point in time.
And beyond that I've consistently said I think that Generation Transmission and Distribution are all critical assets in terms of serving customers.
And right now I don't see any strategic change there for us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Fair enough.
And on the second question if I look at the generation of the Competitive business and I look at the...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I would remind you that in my remarks I told you that this business is generating positive EBITDA positive cash flow through 2018 without any benefit from the Energy Security Plan.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Gotcha.
And that's a great lead-in actually to my second question which is as I think about that positive free cash flow I guess an important part of that is just the different channels that you sell your generation through.
And LCI looks like an important piece of that puzzle.
The range that you generally provide for LCI is in the zero to 20-terawatt hours of sales in that LCI direct.
2017 looks like it's just at 5 terawatt hours right now.
And clearly it's early days and you're waiting for the PPA.
But is there – the reason why I'm focused on it is the LCI price versus the spot price there's like almost a $20 per megawatt hour difference.
So I'm just trying to put a lower bound on that LCI sale as in at a minimum what level do you see achieving at LCI or LCI channel sales in the 2016/2017 timeframe? FirstEnergy Solutions (<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FES" title="Forbes Energy Services Ltd.">FES</a>) FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.</span></strong> So this is Donny.
I think actually if you look at slide 104 in the fact book it shows LCI MCI and mass market we've got 16.4 terawatt hours closed already for 2016 delivery.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> No I'm looking at 2017 and LCI for 2017 is 5 terawatt hours which is what I'm looking at.
FirstEnergy Solutions (<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FES" title="Forbes Energy Services Ltd.">FES</a>) FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.</span></strong> Oh yeah sure.
Yeah.
We've got a ways to go there.
LCI customers generally are shorter terms contracts compared to government aggregation for example.
So it would not be unusual to be able to close 10 terawatt hours or 15 terawatt hours in a year prior to the delivery year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got you.
And do you expect those prices to be at similar levels to where you currently cleared which is around $54 per megawatt hour $55 per megawatt hour? FirstEnergy Solutions (<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FES" title="Forbes Energy Services Ltd.">FES</a>) FirstEnergy Solutions Corp.</span></strong> That's more difficult to say because what you got to keep in mind embedded in that price is the price of capacity.
So a customer in ATSI in the 2015/2016 timeframe is going to look different than a RTO customer and that's going to look different than a customer in the 2017/2018 timeframe.
So it's very hard for us to say kind of what price we would end up locking those in at.
What I would tell you is we would have consistent margins.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got you.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This will be quick I think.
In comparing the fact sheets it looks like the transmission spend you're projecting a little up for 2016 lower in 2017.
But nothing has changed with respect to Energizing the Future.
I mean the overall project is pretty much on track from the way you initially set it up a couple of years ago correct? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
That's the only question I had.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay well there are no more questions in the queue.
I'd just like to thank you all for your continued support.
I look forward to getting our answer from Ohio here in a few weeks and then look forward to meeting you all face to face at the Analyst Meeting following that.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude our teleconference for today.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.