Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference will be available at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 11 at the following telephone number (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 9118579 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's first quarter 2011 conference call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Steuert Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2 of the presentation.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information and there is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of those risk factors in our 10-K which was filed on February 23 2011.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are also posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
Now with that I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chief Executive Officer.
David? Thanks Ken and good afternoon to everyone.
I really appreciate you joining us.
Today we'll review our results for the first quarter and discuss our outlook and earnings guidance for 2011.
I want to start by highlighting a few of our accomplishments in the first quarter and ask that you please turn to Slide 3 of the presentation deck.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor in the first quarter were $140 million or $0.78 per diluted share.
Our segment profit totaled $249 million and included substantial positive contributions from all five of our business segments.
The Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment led the way nearly tripling their profit from a year ago which is a significant growth in both mining and our infrastructure business lines.
Consolidated revenue totaled $5.1 billion which is an increase of about 3% over the first quarter of last year.
Now Fluor also had strong cash flow generation ending the quarter with $2.7 billion in cash and marketable securities after utilizing $246 million for the repurchase of shares.
As a clear sign of the strength of Fluor's global market position new awards came in at a very strong $6.2 billion.
This is almost double the amount of new awards we reported just a year ago.
That's significant award activity across our diversed portfolio with the exception of Power.
Strong Mining &amp; Metals awards were most significant contributor in the quarter but we also had good contribution from Oil &amp; Gas Government and our Global Services business.
As the results of our strong bookings our backlog grew to $37.2 billion which is a new company record.
If you would turn to Slide 4 the Oil &amp; Gas segment had a number of awards across upstream downstream petrochemicals as well as our Fluor Ocean Services business line which is our offshore business line.
The quarter included additional scope in West Qurna in Iraq additional scope for the Kearl Oil Sands Project in Canada and the polysilicon project in China.
We are active on numerous front-end programs that continue to track sizable projects in our target markets around the globe.
Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment booked another iron ore expansion project in Western Australia and also booked a sizable manufacturing award for carbon electrode project in the United States.
We continue to track a very strong list of prospects particularly for large mining &amp; metals programs.
During the first quarter the Government Group booked $882 million in new awards including LOGCAP's task orders in Afghanistan and the initial six-month portion of the Portsmouth gaseous diffusion facility for the DOE.
Global Services added $422 million in new awards for the renewals and scope increases on long-term operations and maintenance contracts.
As expected the Power segment that had new -- had a low new award volume but the unit continues to work on new opportunities primarily involving gas-fired power opportunities and renewable energy as well as the plant betterment business.
I wanted to provide you with a brief status report on the Greater Gabbard project which is progressing in line with the expectations that we established last quarter.
If you would turn to Page 5 of the presentation deck.
We installed 36 wind turbine generators during the quarter and now have installed 108 of the 140 total wind turbine generators.
The installation of the remaining wind turbine generators is scheduled to resume in September when the specialized jack-up vessel returns to the site.
With regard to subsea cabling as anticipated we have contracted two vessels which have been actively engaged in equipment testing and sea trials.
We expect cable installation to resume shortly.
During the first quarter we also made progress on the connectivity of the previously installed subsea cabling to the wind turbine generator towers.
Overall project progress during the quarter was in line with our outlook and the project is now approximately 80% complete.
We obviously have a ways to go but I'm pleased with the project that the team is making in line with what we communicated last quarter.
In summary we continue to capture significant new awards which have contributed to four consecutive quarters of backlog growth.
Front-end activity in Oil &amp; Gas is active and we expect sizable EPC awards as we go through 2011 and into next year.
We've talked extensively about our success in Mining which we expect to continue.
We have bids outstanding in Government which could add to their backlog still this year.
And our Global Services business is seeing signs of recovery.
With that as a backdrop we feel very good about our market position and growth potential going forward.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike Steuert and he'll review some of the details of our operating performance and corporate financial metrics as well as our financial outlook.
Mike? Thank you David and good afternoon.
Detailed results for each operating segment can be found in the earnings release and in the 10-Q.
I will focus on a few highlights and corporate items in my comments today.
Please turn to Slide 6 of our presentation.
As David mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog increased to $37.2 billion at the end of the quarter.
The percentage of fixed price backlog declined to 27% with the geographical split at 23% in the U.S.
and 57% outside of the U.S.
I think it's worth noting that 86% of our new awards in the quarter were for projects outside the United States.
Moving on to corporate items that are shown on Slide 7.
G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $34 million increasing from $31 million a year ago mainly due to higher stock-based compensation costs.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 33% due to increased earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest for which taxes are not generally paid by the company.
Shifting on to the balance sheet.
Our consolidated cash and marketable securities balance totaled $2.7 billion.
Cash flow from operations during the quarter was a robust $371 million including earnings and improvements in our networking capital position.
As David mentioned the company has continued to buy back shares since we increased authorization last year.
During the first quarter we repurchased 3.5 million shares for $246 million.
Since the end of March we purchased another additional 1.6 million shares for $113 million.
We have the authorization remaining to purchase up about 4 million additional shares underneath this current program.
During the quarter we also paid out $32 million in cash for the principal balance owed to convertible debt holders as well as 692 000 shares of preferred common stock for the premium they received on their investment.
An additional $26 million in cash of 527 000 shares was paid out in the month of April.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $56 million which compares with $48 million last year.
The majority of this CapEx was driven by continued investment structuring equipment within our Global Services segment.
Depreciation expense was in line with capital spending at about $48 million.
Overall as we said in previous quarters Fluor's financial condition remains very strong and continues to strengthen.
Finally let me conclude my comments by talking about our guidance for 2011 that is shown on Slide #12.
As we have discussed solid results for this quarter were consistent with our expectations and we are on track to deliver EPS within our guidance range of $3 to $3.40 per diluted share for 2011.
Our guidance for the year assumes sizable new awards throughout 2011 with G&amp;A expense in the range of $170 million to $190 million capital expenditures in the range of $260 million to $280 million and an effective tax rate of 33% to 36%.
With that operator we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Two quick questions.
Just one the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure margins were quite impressive at 4.6%.
I'm just wondering what drove that.
Is there anything unusual in the quarter in how we should think about margins as the year progresses? And then on the flip side if we look at your Oil &amp; Gas revenue and margins I mean the revenue number is the lowest I've seen in years.
Margins I mean should we think about that as trough levels if you could just comment on those two factors? And then I'll get back in queue.
Sure let me try that Jamie.
On the margins Industrial &amp; Infrastructure there was nothing I'd say materially significant.
They just had a very good quarter better than most quarters.
It was just a lot of things going right that quarter no unusual items.
We continue to guide toward more in the 3% range for margins long term in terms of your modeling and thinking for that business but they just had a strong quarter.
But was it Mining? Like which area? Was it Industrial &amp; Infrastructure...
It was both Mining and Infrastructure.
Transportation both contributed to the solid margins.
And Jamie the second part of your question I'll try to hit.
I do think we're at an inflection point.
We're seeing a significant amount of front-end work continue to come in the door.
But we're seeing some of the decisions on the EPC value pushed to the right.
It doesn't mean they're going away.
It's just that the decision-making process is a little bit longer than we anticipated or I think in most cases that our customer anticipated.
So I do believe we're at an inflection point with regard to energy and chemicals.
I mean it's going to bumble around as we go through this year but I really look at E&amp;C as a major contributor in '12 and beyond.
Jamie we've kind of guided that margins may stay at trough levels for the first half of this year and then increase as we move through 2011.
And I think you see the same revenue burn that we're kind of near the trough on revenue burn and that will start to increase as we go through the year.
And then David just lastly can you just comment on what's happening that's -- why customers are all of a sudden pushing decisions to the right? Is it unrest in the Middle East just what are the factors driving that? I don't think it's necessarily anything that has occurred recently.
I mean there's some projects where in the Oil &amp; Gas space where you have national oil companies and international oil companies in joint venture relationships.
And those decisions sometimes take a little bit longer than are expected.
I don't think there's anything of a political nature or any unrest or uncertainty that's pushing those decisions to the right.
Okay.
We will go next to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
So just following up on one of Jamie's questions around the revenue in the quarter.
Is it right to say that maybe -- I mean you have a big slug of backlog in Oil &amp; Gas at Kearl and you've just booked a big slug for Santos.
It's the winter up there.
Is it possible that burn rate on that project was lower in the quarter? And then on Santos we really haven't ramped up yet and so those are two projects that can burn more later this year? Andy there are so many pluses and minus.
We have so many projects.
It's really hard to pinpoint and attribute that to two projects.
We do have quite a lag between you book a project and really start burning it to a significant degree.
And if you model our business it could be anywhere from a six-month to 12-month lag when we really start to see some substantial growth in revenue as it follows growth in backlog.
We're right on track with our expectations in terms of how we're going to see our revenue growth but we do think we're pretty much at an inflection point in Oil &amp; Gas revenue cycle as David mentioned.
Yes to your point on Santos though.
We are only just beginning that project so there's very little burn in the first quarter numbers.
Okay that's fair.
And David if I could follow up on the comments around robust bookings.
If we think about the overall backlog it's obviously at a record.
And so given it's so large it's hard to grow it.
What do you think about growing it going forward? Can we grow this overall backlog from here? And even if we can though certainly you are confident you can grow Oil &amp; Gas backlog? I think absolutely.
This goes back to what we've talked about previously.
I mean I think we have a very robust opportunity list.
I think that we're very well positioned both from a customer standpoint an execution delivery standpoint and a geography standpoint.
So I have an expectation that we'll continue to grow backlog.
As we've said in the past it's going to be lumpy.
You've heard us say that for years but I believe that there's headroom as we go through the next few years.
In terms of total company backlog right David? I think well you specifically asked about E&amp;C.
I think in total company backlog and I think there's headroom obviously in our Oil &amp; Gas segment.
Okay that's fair.
And then just one more quickie.
You've mentioned 86% I think of new awards outside the U.S.
But we've seen a recovery in the U.S.
on petrochemical and refining to some extent yet we really haven't gotten any awards there.
Do you expect more awards as we go forward? Well I think so.
I think you're starting to see that market come back.
It's a matter of timing.
We're looking at several opportunities that are going to be in the feasibility study in the FEED stage.
So as far as that particular piece of the market moving our needle from a backlog standpoint you're probably in the out-years.
But we're certainly seeing much more activity on the front-end design and the study perspective here in the States.
Again in Power we just need some permits.
I think I will kind of go out a little bit past what you asked.
I think there's upside potential for us in Power as I mentioned in the comments relative to gas-fired power relative to renewables and relative to the plant betterment work.
We are seeing a lot of opportunities but they're much smaller in nature than a coal plant like the Oak Grove project just as an example.
We will take our next question from Scott Levine with JP Morgan.
So you said you're seeing some signs of life as well in the Global Services business.
I was wondering if you could elaborate on that and what gives you encouragement and whether you're any more encouraged about that market than you were maybe three or six months ago? I'm cautious but I'm optimistic.
I think what we've seen is that group has done a very good job of changing their business model from the shutdown turnaround business that they traditionally had to more of a facilities management offering and they've done a really good job of growing that business domestically but also in looking at broadening their geographic reach to the Middle East to Asia Pacific.
So we've got a much bigger aperture more opportunity lands in that group and they've adapted to the changes in that market and are capturing what they're going after.
So I think it's going to be a significant piece of our business as we go forward.
But I don't think it's going to -- you're not going to see a big spike in that business like we had once before.
I think it's going to be a gradual rise from additional market exposure.
It's helpful.
Turning to cash flow deployment strong cash flow quarter for you guys 4 million shares up from the buyback.
Any thoughts in terms of behavior and maybe when the endpoint is on that? And maybe additional color on where your appetite levels are in M&amp;A at this point? Sure we did deploy our free cash flow generation in the first quarter to buy back shares and we'll continue to look at our share buyback throughout this year as we generate cash flow.
It's going to be dependent on our quarter-to-quarter cash flow generation in terms of when we're in the market or not.
We don't have a firm deadline for buying back the remaining 4 million shares.
We'll just see how our cash flow generation goes throughout the year.
And M&amp;A any change in interest level there? No I think the M&amp;A remains a priority for us.
It's just a tough market to find something that meets our very high standards and we'll continue to put that high on the list in terms of our cash deployment.
But in the meantime we think it's a good use of our cash.
We think Fluor stocks are a very good investment at these prices and we think it's just a good use of our free cash flow to buy it back.
One last one Michael.
On tax rate a little bit lower than what you're guiding to for the full year or anything going on in the first quarter? Absolutely nothing unusual in the tax rate.
It's a very straightforward tax rate for the quarter.
Got it.
We'll go next to Richard Paget with WJB Capital.
Inc.</strong> Wondered if you could comment on your Government Services business.
There's been some investor concern about budgets being down and then spending being lower.
But it looks like you had decent awards in the quarter.
Do you still -- do you have any concern about DOD or DOE budgets impacting your businesses there? No not at all.
Inc.</strong> Or would you say they're growing or is it just stable? Well I think it's stable.
I think if you look at the DOD business we continue to support the troops overseas.
During the quarter we signed an agreement with a partner in the U.K.
to pursue the Ministry of Defense in the U.K.
on a similar basis as LOGCAP.
So we see some growth there.
But as you can tell the way that burns it's not a lot of backlog there.
It's all book and burn business.
So it gets modeled a little bit differently.
We feel like we're doing very well with the DOE.
One unfortunate piece is we were notified that we were not successful on ETTP at Oak Ridge.
We're looking at our options with regard to that decision but we're operating very effectively at the other sites.
We're glad that we're finally in the transition period at Portsmouth and there are several procurements ahead of us in the DOE world.
Also on the Services side there's some base operating support contracts in the procurement stages that we also feel pretty bullish about.
So I think there's growth opportunity there.
It's going to be steady.
And as we can tell right now the programs that we work in by and large are not being affected by the budget issues by the U.S.
Federal Government.
Inc.</strong> All right.
That's all I got.
We will take our next question from Joe Ritchie from Goldman Sachs.
So David you talked a little bit about potential sizable EPC awards in Oil &amp; Gas.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about timing.
Can you see those hit this year? And then maybe even a broader question as you think about growing your backlog in Oil &amp; Gas it's still down 40% from the peak.
Given what you see in your prospect list today can you help us kind of think through if and when Fluor can get back to peak backlog in the Oil &amp; Gas segment? I think when you look at the opportunities that are in front of us they're pretty diverse both from the business line perspective.
As we talked about I think there are some opportunities in the refining and petrochemical market.
But the clear direction is more on the onshore and offshore Oil &amp; Gas which we're capturing a significant amount of front-end work that leads to EPC projects in the out-years.
I don't think I want to signal how -- when and how we're going to get back to record backlog levels in E&amp;C.
I would just say that we have a very robust prospect list and I think we're going to see a consistent improvement as we go into the second half of this year and into '12 and '13.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And I guess I mean just specifically in thinking about your backlog in total now that you're at record levels for the entire company is the expectation for backlog to grow for the remaining piece of 2011? Well as I said I think it's going to be lumpy but I think as we go through the year there's great opportunity to continue to add to that record number.
Okay.
And I guess just lastly one specific question on the contracts you booked in the I&amp;I segment.
The iron ore expansion project was that the next phase of BHP or is that a different project? Next phase of BHP.
We will go next to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
I guess my question is around Greater Gabbard.
It seems like some of the installations are going to resume with a bit of a gap.
I would love to get some color on why the gap occurs.
And as you look out what potential risk factors you think would be in place for some charges or some risk of cost overrun to that point as you see it right now? Okay relative to the gap that was planned.
It's basically related to the availability of the two jack-up rigs we were using to install the generator sets and blades.
It was planned for the main vessel to leave last month to go to a different project.
And that was anticipated as we put together the changes that we had that we reported last quarter.
So it was well within what we expected.
It was part of the plan.
And from that standpoint I really don't see a risk of not being able to continue to set those and beginning in the September timeframe.
Relative to risk I mean there's going to be puts and takes.
But certainly I'm very pleased with the progress that we made during the quarter.
I was very pleased with the fact that there was not an additional charge but we didn't anticipate that.
I think the team has done an outstanding job of understanding where we are understanding the nature of the claim that we have and are performing I think excellently against the plan that we put in place to go forward.
That's good to know.
I guess one other question that I had was in terms of your Oil &amp; Gas segment.
You've talked about it in the past and said you have to hit a certain quarterly run rate to really see the utilization pickup and positively impact the margins over there.
Obviously first quarter was light.
But as we look to the second half of the year do you feel even with just the front-end activity that you're seeing which seems to be picking up that that might be enough to start hitting maybe the $2 billion of clips per quarter? I don't know that we'll hit from a revenue standpoint -- there's two questions there.
One's the revenue burn and one's the leverage.
I'll handle the last one first.
I think with the heavy workload coming in on the front-end we're beginning to see the impact that it will be.
Got it.
And we will take our next question from Michael Dudas with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> David if you could share a couple of I guess on how many areas within the organization are you putting a bit more focus on relative to enhancing current business opportunities or looking for areas where they haven't been as great in the past but you think there's opportunities for growth in the future? And are there any that you've kind of deemphasized or stepped back from because either market or company imposition? I wouldn't say we're focusing on anything differently than we have.
I've used the old Gretzky adage of we're skating to where the puck's going to be.
And I point to the mining growth that we've seen and the fact that we did in fact anticipate that.
And we were sure that we could get to the point we had the people and the talents and the capability to capture that -- a significant piece of that market.
I think as I said in Global Services their business model is changing.
But we kind of knew that was coming and we made the changes and focus in order to be able to capture that business.
So I wouldn't say we're deemphasizing anything.
I think we're moving and changing our business model to adapt to the opportunities that are out there.
I will say that if you think about our ability to grow in this unstable financial environment that we live in is a testament to that diversity of market as well as the diversity of geography that we have.
So if there's something that we're emphasizing it's making sure that we have the capabilities globally to take advantage of whatever comes down the pike and making sure that we have the ability to have the local content that we need in certain places around the world and make sure we're leveraging the rest of the resources that we have in our portfolio.
Inc.</strong> And then my follow-up is how about the opportunities that Brazil presents itself for the industry in general and for Fluor in particular? And how are you going to best take advantage of those opportunities? Well I think we're trying to figure out exactly how we make money there.
There's a lot of local content requirements in Brazil and we're looking at different models that allow us to service the clients at the level of quality that we expect and combine that with the local capabilities that's there that are also high quality.
But we've got to be able to deliver to our customers.
And at the same time it's got to be a model that produces profitable results.
We're not quite there yet.
It's a huge market but I think there's a lot of people struggling with how do you actually grow significantly in Brazil.
And I think we'll come up with a plan that works for us and we'll capture our fair share of the business.
Inc.</strong> I appreciate those comments David.
We will go next to Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
David have you seen or noticed your customers change their views on either the outlook for oil prices or the outlook for the broader economic conditions in light of the geopolitical environment that we've been in for the last two months? Not really.
I think that all of them would like to see prices below 100.
I think that based on what I've seen in the press and is out there from -- and you name the source OPEC API the individual companies is that something sub-100 is good and anything over it starts to change behaviors.
I think that one of the dynamics that is changing is the availability of gas and how they're going to monetize gas.
I think one thing that I feel is positive to our Power group is we're seeing more opportunities on gas-fired power plants in the United States that's driven primarily by that disconnect now between oil prices and gas prices.
But I don't think the political unrest is having a long-term impact on the way the oil companies think about capital expenditures or the speed at which they do capital expenditures.
And as it relates to your U.S.
Power business are your customers feeling any more confident today in making a long-term decisions for capital investment? Or are they still cautious and sort of awaiting better clarity from Washington policymakers? I think everybody is waiting on Washington for clear policy decisions.
We will take our next question from Avi Fisher with BMO Capital Markets.
Don't wait too long or don't hold your breath for a clear policy decision.
I was afraid I made such a strong statement there that I'd be quoted but I hope you guys would give me a break there.
Sure.
A lot of the competition at the E&amp;C space has been talking about or has actually been acquiring into the Mining space.
Are you seeing any of that competition on the bids either directly on the bids or in the pricing or margins? It's a competitive marketplace.
I don't think -- we haven't seen any challenges to the margins that we've been putting back -- any more challenge into the margins that we've been putting in the backlog.
It's a very competitive market and I think we compete pretty well against those.
And it's a big market.
So I think we've got opportunity to grow in that market and our growth is going to be geographic and also in the metals in which we're helping our customers extract.
So I'm pretty bullish on our ability to continue to grow in that business in the short term.
And following up the last question on certain oil prices can you talk about the commodity prices? And any pushback from clients on where you think project expansion starts to slow? Relative to inflation? Or are you talking about commodity? Commodity prices.
Like steel? Copper.
Construction commodity? I mean not necessarily extraction.
It's kind of moderated.
I think we saw obviously a drop from the peak which made some projects more profitable.
I think the decision-making process for our customers has become more acute because they want to make sure that they get the absolute best price and there is a very competitive marketplace both from a commodity standpoint as well as from a cost of delivery.
But I'm not seeing anything that's changing customers' opinions on whether they go forward with their capital investments on the negative side.
We will take our next question from Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Most of mine have been answered but I just thought given the geographic scope and size of Fluor that you guys would be uniquely qualified to talk about the impact of the Japan earthquake and how that might impact the overall capacity absorption of engineering and construction talent globally.
And what that could mean for Fluor and really for the industry over the next couple of years if that's a net benefit for the industry in terms of profitability? Or how you're seeing that today? Well I think the Japanese situation is a tragedy and we -- really our hearts go out to all of the people there especially the partners that we have there.
We enjoy great relationships with many of our competitors where we partner across the globe.
And certainly we're hoping that we can help in any way rebuild that country.
And I've seen just probably like you varying statistics of what the cost of rebuilding or repairing is going to be.
And one number I saw was $300 billion which is significant when you think about the global market but not overly so.
I think we will see a tightening of the market from a commodity availability perspective which will drive some pricing to the north.
I also think we're going to see a timing in the market from a labor perspective around the globe.
The Japanese are -- deservedly so very proud people and they will rebuild their country.
And that's going to take a lot of talent and a lot of commodities to accomplish that.
So I think it's going to be a moderate impact to a slight impact.
But I do think it will present some opportunities for Fluor either in Japan or where our partners and competitors are no longer able to compete because they're busy fixing their country.
And do you feel like some of those spikes in the commodities and/or in the labor market might be significant enough that projects that might otherwise -- today or before a lot of the reconstruction happens that they would make sense today but maybe in a couple of years when we think of rebuilding Japan that those projects no longer make sense just given the new cost that's associated with them? No I don't.
I mean it's just not -- I mean it's a huge number but when you think about the global capital spend even as big as that number is it's not really material.
Okay.
And then just finally another kind of big picture question lots of I think positives in the outlook today.
Just kind of curious as to what you're watching or if you're not sleeping particularly well at night what are the risks that you're seeing in the business today that might derail for the positive trends that you're seeing? I think any longer-term political unrest that changes the face of the globe I think when you look at the Arab Spring it could have been a very large event that could have made people at the very least take a deep breath before they made these decisions.
I think by and large that hasn't happened.
I think that from a competitive standpoint predatory pricing I don't think is good for anyone in our market.
And I think anything that would be systemically different could be.
I don't particularly see that continuing but I really don't see anything that is in front of us right now that really changes my positive outlook one way or the other.
But there's -- hopefully God forbid there's another tsunami that has the same impact to other places around the globe than what we've seen in Japan.
But I sleep pretty well at night.
I feel really good about where Fluor is geographically and market-wise.
I have great confidence in our management team and project management teams and the folks around the globe.
I think we've got robust markets ahead of us.
And I think that over the next 2 to 5 years which is about as far as we can look out I feel pretty bullish about our ability to capture business execute it and deliver that bottom line profitability to our shareholders.
Just specifically on commodities though I mean given that we have seen so much inflation a lot of what we've seen in terms of your new awards has been expansions on existing projects do you feel like some of those expansions might get canceled if commodities were to roll over? Or do you feel like there's enough price support there that you've got some cushion that those investments are going to continue going forward? Well I hate to put myself in my customers' shoes and comment on that.
They're going to make their decisions on their own.
But I would say that if you think back to '08 and '09 we're nowhere near the values that were being paid in those years.
And customers particularly in Oil &amp; Gas were continuing to make positive decisions relative to capital programs.
So I think we're a long way relative to inflation in commodity or even labor before we even get close to changing the business model of the decision making of our customers.
We will go next to Steven Fisher with UBS.
Just coming back to the Oil &amp; Gas margins again.
What would you say is most pressuring them at this point? Is that the utilization or pricing or the timing of procurement? What's the biggest factor at this point? I would say pricing and timing of decisions are the two main factors.
Okay.
And then so when we're talking about improvements later this year are we talking about getting back into the mid-4s say by the latter part of the year? I'm not sure I want to give you a number on that.
I have a feeling that Jamie probably put you up to asking me that question.
We always have a little pandering back and forth on that subject.
I just think we're going to see improvement from where we are today as we go through the year.
I think that as Mike said we're at an inflection point but that inflection is going to take us through a fair amount of this year where I see the improvement really in the '12 timeframe.
Okay that's fine.
And then maybe just on the Gladstone project.
How much of the procurement is locked up in terms of being contracted at this point? Well from a total dollar standpoint you got to break it down and take the construction piece out and take the services piece out.
But of what's left I believe we're somewhere around a 50% range of commitment.
And how over what period of time do you expect that remaining 50% to be contracted? Just trying to get a sense of where there could be a risk in kind of pricing or inflation? It's very soon before we're out of this year.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
I know you said the outlook is still positive in Mining with I guess the next phase of BHP in the backlog now.
What's your visibility on big bookings and mining for the rest of 2011? I think they got quite a number of opportunities out there around the globe that they're pursuing.
So I think they'll continue to book sizable awards as we go through this year.
Not just Australia but South America and Africa as well.
Right.
We will take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Dave you've been around the Oil &amp; Gas industry for some time.
And basically does this client deferral mentality that you speak of and that you're seeing right now similar more to the 2000 timeframe -- 2005 timeframe before awards started to ramp? Or is it a little bit of a pushback on cost that you're seeing right now? I think it feels more like the early 2000s.
And at that time it was -- the pushback was relative to cost.
So I think it kind of feels like that.
If you think about the boom in the '06 '07 there was a rush to the market to secure both resources from folks like us as well as space in the fabrication shops around the globe when everything was really superheated over heated.
So it kind of feels like the early 2000s.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then just to hammer on the Oil &amp; Gas margin.
It's about 110 120 basis points below the average since 2001.
And basically how much would you attribute this to just upfront investment that you're doing in this segment before the revenue starts to ramp from the awards that we've seen in the past year or so? I'd say a significant amount of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Care to quantify? No.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then one more question just for Mike.
With 77% of the backlog outside the U.S.
when do you think we could see the tax rate come down from the 34% to 36% range? I think you're going to see in that range at least through this year.
Our current accounting practice is to accrue taxes as if all the earnings were repatriated to the U.S.
But I think as we move through this year you'll probably see it more towards the bottom end of that range.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> All right.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Just a couple of follow-up.
First one in terms of the outlook the G&amp;A expenses that you referred to Mike I mean to hit this level it's a pretty big ramp up over the next couple of quarters.
Was there anything unusual in the first quarter? I know that number moves around a lot for you guys.
No John.
It's pretty much as we expected.
It was slightly higher than last year.
And as you may remember last year we did ramp up in the second half especially in the fourth quarter.
Our G&amp;A expense is pretty loaded in the fourth quarter of the year.
So I have it right on target for the 170 to 180 that we're guiding to for the full year.
Okay.
And in your comment on just as it relates to the earnings outlook assuming sizable new awards the receipt of those awards will they have a significant impact on earnings this year? I would say every year there is a material amount that we need to book and burn as we move through the year.
That varies quite a bit by business line.
As David mentioned it's very significant in our Government business with the LOGCAP award but we certainly don't think there's any risk there at all.
We did have a very healthy booking in the first quarter on LOGCAP and we expect that to continue through the year.
And we expect to see some solid new awards in O&amp;M business as well which is more book and burn.
It's less important in our Oil &amp; Gas and other businesses where we have larger long-term awards.
The same is true for Industrial &amp; Infrastructure in both Mining and our transportation jobs.
Okay.
But there's no significant upfront bidding costs are being deferred or anything? No.
We actually expense all of our bidding cost.
We don't defer any of our bidding cost.
It's just a reflection of a very healthy prospect list.
And then we think we're going to be successful on a lot of it.
Okay.
And then last thing Dave in terms of -- I mean you've obviously got a great backlog in terms of size.
But are there any other market segments that you're looking at that you need to get into or you really want to get into especially to position over the 3- to 5-year timeframe that you were talking about? I'm not sure I want to talk specifically about that.
We continue to look at markets that are tangential to what we already do and how do we continue to grow our ability to service our customers.
I think there's a couple of areas that could be very positive to us in the future one of which I would suggest is in the biofuels arena.
We have great experience in those types of programs and projects.
And that's just one example of where our teams are continually looking to how to monetize the capabilities we have.
When you look at that market specifically there's capabilities that fall within our Energy Chemicals Group and there's capabilities that fall within our Life Sciences group and making sure that we approach it from a one-Fluor standpoint is what's going to make the difference because we do have that capability.
So that's just an example of where we're going to continue to grow.
As you said -- and we're pretty diversed as it is on a market and geography perspective.
But where I see us taking advantage of markets and growth is in growing our capability in existing markets and locations with allowing some of these things to germinate if you will through the various groups that have the skill set.
I appreciate it.
We will take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> Did you give a mix in terms of prospects for the next 12 or 24 months? How do you think it will shakeout between upstream and downstream? No we didn't.
But I would say that the majority of the opportunities are in that Upstream segment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then within chemicals does anything stand out as potentially a bright spot internationally and I guess specifically in Asia? And then also within polysilicon it seems like there's some investment talk again in that market and you've been successful in the past? Yes I think from the back to the front there I think that market is starting to have a little bit of resurgence.
We do see opportunities in the polysilicon market.
I think that when you look at the chemicals market there are still significant opportunities in the Middle East.
And I think we're pretty well placed to work in most of those and that will continue to be a big opportunity for us.
I do believe because of the gas pricing and the differential that I mentioned earlier there are some opportunities in the States that are being contemplated.
So I'm not sure I'd put that on a timeline.
But I do believe you're going to see some spending in that sector and I think we're pretty well positioned to assist our customers there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Within Infrastructure in Q3 that was a big topic last year.
What does the pipeline look like? And have you started to really feel the margin benefit from the few that you booked over the past 12 months? I think we are seeing -- there's a long gestation period on those and there are several in the pipeline that we're pursuing and developing that will help us as we get towards the back end of this year or early next year.
And we're really in the early stages of the ones that were awarded late last year and early this year.
So not a lot of impact yet to earnings.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Splitting Government I guess we're starting to get to that point where stimulus money anniversaries.
How's that going to look for Fluor when that money starts rolling off some of the DOE sides? I mean that's planned in.
We expected for the recovery money to go away and normal steady-state to take over.
I think the good thing here is that the business and the increase in both the DOE and DOE business that we've had over the last year more than cover the lack of earnings that we have enjoyed from ARRA money.
Inc.</strong> So will you being a net adder in Government jobs as your money rolls off or is this something that you're just going to hold in place? Net adder to jobs you mean...
Inc.</strong> No just your general Federal business.
Do you think you'll have more people working there with the growth? Absolutely.
Portsmouth is going to add to that nicely.
Right.
Inc.</strong> And then I guess within general infrastructure I think that's the market you guys have talked about wanting more exposure to.
I specifically think of work that Bechtel was doing on the Delhi port [ph]  And things like that.
Is that something that's high your priority list right now? Projects of that type in the Middle East and elsewhere? Sure.
We're working for the UAE Government on their Rapid Transit program.
We're bidding for several projects out there that are very equal to what Bechtel is doing in Qatar.
And I think we've created a pretty good name for ourselves in that region on the infrastructure play and there's a lot of opportunity out there.
But decision-making there sometimes takes a little longer than normal too.
So timing of those kinds of decisions I think are going to be a challenge.
But when you look at places like Qatar and UAE and a lot of other places in that region there's tremendous need for infrastructure.
And I think we've got a great capability and a heritage there frankly to help our customers.
Inc.</strong> And are those markets you'd look to self perform work in ever? Or is that more of a contract construction management PMC role? It's going to be all across the board.
I think the value proposition I think we have is being able to manage the big mega programs around the globe and you don't do any of those by -- no one does all of those by themselves.
So there will be partners and local partners that we're going to take into our teams as we execute these programs.
Inc.</strong> Great.
We will go next to Yuri Lynk with Canaccord Genuity.
David can you share with us the thinking of your oil sands clients in Alberta? Because the amount of design work that's going on right now is quite substantial but the package awards have been slow.
I guess is this the same thinking you're seeing globally in the Oil &amp; Gas that you spoke about earlier? Yes I think so.
I think they're being a lot more measured in their decision-making.
Clearly if you looked at the programs that took place in the last build out there was increased cost.
I think what they're doing is they're being a lot more prudent in the way they're looking at their decision process.
And I think we'll be able to perform a little bit closer to their expectations from a cost perspective because of the time they're taking before putting the packages on the street.
And lastly the shale gas opportunity in North America does that offer any work for Fluor? Some.
A lot of the work in that particular area is in the down hole technologies which fits more with some of the other people in our space.
People like Halliburton and Schlumberger and the like a lot of the money is in the frac-ing fluids and the makeup of that.
Where I think there could be an opportunity is in water.
There's a lot of water used in that and being able to process that water and recycle that water is going to be key to the ongoing operation of those facilities.
So I think that presents an opportunity for us.
And then I think the distribution systems is certainly in our capability when you look at moving products from point A to point B pipelines compressor stations and those kinds of things to fit in our capability.
That's helpful.
And gentlemen at this time there are no further questions.
Mr.
Seaton I will turn the conference back over to you for any closing comments.
Thank you operator.
And I'd like to thank everyone for participating in our call this afternoon.
Just in closing I think you've heard from us that we believe that our strong first quarter results puts us in a good position to start 2011.
We're bullish about the future and we greatly appreciate your interest in Fluor and your confidence in our company.
So I wish everyone a happy Cinco de Mayo and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
A web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 10 at the following phone number (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 6931964 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everyone to our conference call today.
And with us in the room are David Seaton Fluor's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Steuert Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement as you know was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making prepared remarks today.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information and there is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of those risk factors in our 10-K which was filed on February 23 2011 and in our most recent Form 10-Q filed today August 4 2011.
During this call we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chief Executive Officer.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on what has turned out to be a pretty interesting day in the markets.
I'd like to start by highlighting a few of our accomplishments for the second quarter and ask you to please turn to Slide 3.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the second quarter were $165 million or $0.94 per diluted share.
Our segment profit totaled $280 million and included substantial positive contributions from all of our businesses.
Our consolidated revenues totaled $6 billion which represents a 17% increase over the second quarter of 2010.
We also continue to have strong cash flow generation ending the quarter with $2.5 billion in cash and marketable securities after utilizing $113 million during the quarter for repurchase of our shares.
Increased demand for our services and our success in capturing key prospects is evident as new awards for the quarter were totaled $9.7 billion.
We had substantial award activities across our businesses with Mining &amp; Metals and Oil &amp; Gas and Government contributing significantly during the quarter.
As a result of our strong bookings our backlog grew to a record $40.3 billion which exceeds our previous high mark set last quarter by over $3 billion.
If you turn to Slide 4 the Oil &amp; Gas segment had a number of wins during the quarter including a significant award for utilities and offsites component of the Dow/Aramco Ras Tanura integrated project or RTIP in Saudi Arabia.
We're particularly pleased about our success in winning this critically important award in the project which will become the largest integrated petrochemical complex in the world.
We were able to leverage our strong relationship with Dow and our experiences with them in the Middle East and our extensive history with the Saudi -- excuse me in Saudi Arabia but more importantly reestablish our relationship with Aramco which has been an important strategic initiative for Fluor for some time.
Other major awards included the polymers project in Saudi additional scope on the West Qurna project in Iraq and the Kearl Oil Sands project in Canada in addition to a polysilicon project award in China.
More importantly we continue to work on numerous front-end projects and are tracking sizable prospects in our  in that particular market around the globe that will begin to help us as we go into 2012.
The Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment also had a very strong quarter with the group more than doubling their profit from a year ago.
They also had strong new awards including a $2.7 billion award of the major new scope relating to the Port Hedland Inner Harbour project and as part of the BHP Billiton's ongoing iron ore expansion program in Australia.
The Mining business also booked approximately $1 billion on our copper project from Minera Quadra Chile Limitada as well as other awards in Canada as well as South Africa.
As with DNC we continue to track some significant prospects in the Mining &amp; Metals business.
In Infrastructure we continue to work with the client to progress the important I-95/395 interchange project in Virginia towards the closing which could occur sometime later this year.
Finally I want to provide you with a brief update on the Greater Gabbard project.
Despite worse-than-anticipated weather condition the project made progress with the installation of subsea cabling during the quarter.
As of the end of the quarter we had installed just under 100 subsea cables out of 152 and the overall project currently stands at 85% complete.
Wind turbine installation is scheduled to recommence in September.
Moving to Government.
The group booked $1.1 billion in new awards during the quarter mainly driven by an acceleration of the timing of quarterly bookings under the LOGCAP task orders for Afghanistan.
Global Services added $164 million in awards for the new maintenance -- for new maintenance awards as well as renewals of some of the longer term O&amp;M contracts.
As expected the Power segment has low new award volume during the quarter.
But the unit has a growing list of opportunities across its plant betterment gas-fired power solar and other renewable businesses.
In summary we continue to capture significant new awards which have contributed to 5 consecutive quarters of backlog growth.
We feel very positive about our prospects for the balance of 2011 and beyond.
Mining will continue to be a major contributor and we're encouraged by the high level of front-end or FEED activities that we're seeing in the oil and gas market.
We also have a number of strategic initiatives underway which we believe will further strengthen our market position.
Before I conclude my prepared remarks I want to address a legal issue that resulted in a jury verdict against Fluor late last week.
As you may know a Fluor subsidiary had ownership -- had an ownership interest within Doe Run Lead Company from 1981 to 1994.
The company sold its stock in Doe Run in 1994 along with all liabilities associated with lead melting operations.
In addition the company received indemnities from the buyer for certain liabilities arising out of the Herculaneum smelter operations.
Notwithstanding the terms of that transaction Fluor was included as a defendant in an action by 16 plaintiffs in Missouri which concluded late last week with the jury awarding $358 500 000 in compensatory and punitive damages to the plaintiff.
We were very surprised by the verdict planned to appeal immediately and believe it's probable that judgment will be overturned on appeal.
Now the current -- the company does not believe that a loss will ultimately be incurred and therefore does not take any charge for this in the second quarter.
Now I'll turn it over to Mike Steuert to review some of the details of our operating performance and corporate financial metrics as well as our financial outlook.
Mike? Thanks David and good afternoon.
Detailed results for each operating segment can be found in our earnings release and in the 10-Q.
My comments today will focus on a few highlights and some corporate items.
Please turn to Slide 5 of the presentation.
As David mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog increased to a record $40.3 billion at the end of the quarter.
A percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog declined to 24% from 27% last quarter with 81% of our backlog currently outside the U.S.
which I believe is a new high mark for international content.
The continuing trend toward internationally focused prospects is reinforced by the fact that 92% of our new awards over the past 6 months were for projects outside the U.S.
Moving on to a few select corporate items on Slide 6.
G&amp;A expense from the quarter was $31 million increasing from $28 million a year ago mainly due to higher stock-based compensation cost.
Effective tax rate from the quarter was 32%.
Let me shift to the balance sheet for a minute.
Consolidated cash and marketable securities totaled $2.5 billion at quarter end up from $2.1 billion a year ago.
Cash from operations through 6 months was $428 million.
This result reflects positive cash flow from earnings sources partially offset by working capital increases in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and Oil &amp; Gas businesses.
As David mentioned we repurchased a total of 1.6 million shares during the quarter for $113 million.
We have authorization to repurchase approximately 4 million additional shares under our current program.
During the quarter we also paid off $40 million in cash to redeem the principal balance owed to convertible debt holders and $21 million in dividend payments.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were a rather healthy excuse me $102 million.
This compares with $75 million a year ago.
The majority of the CapEx were driven by additional investment in construction equipment within our Global Services segment.
Overall Fluor's financial position remained strong as we've said for quite a few quarters.
And we're very well positioned to fund the future growth we see in front of us.
Finally let me conclude my comments by talking about our guidance for 2011 which is shown on Slide 7.
With the strong financial results through our first 6 months including earnings new awards and backlog we are raising the lower end of our 2011 EPS guidance to a range of $3.10 to $3.40 per share from the previous range of $3 to $3.40 per share.
Our guidance for the year assumed strong new awards will continue throughout 2011.
G&amp;A expense will be in a range of $160 million to $180 million; capital expenditures of $260 million to $300 million; and an effective tax rate remaining at 32% which is consistent with the trend that we've experienced to date.
Operator with that we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question today from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
A couple of questions.
First one wanted to address the Oil &amp; Gas margins in the quarter.
One of my clients e-mailed me and told me they thought -- hoped my title would be Oil &amp; Gas margins at Fluor.
So I'm wondering if you could talk about what the issues were in the quarter and how we should -- if we should still expect margin improvement in the back half of the year.
On the back half -- on the other -- flip side of that your I&amp;I margins were much better and you've been playing those down.
But we've had several quarters of better-than-expected margin improvements.
I'm just wondering how we think about that.
And last can you talk about the profitability profile of the stuff you're putting in backlog today? Well Jamie I think Oil &amp; Gas margins we're still kind of at an inflection point.
I mean we've had a lot of projects that have pushed further to the right on the schedule than we anticipated.
So I think from a margin perspective we're kind of rattling along the bottom and probably we'll start to see improvement as we start into 2012.
As I said there's a significant amount of feed work in that business.
And I believe that both those and the ones we've won will improve the margin in our backlog relative to Oil &amp; Gas.
Now we've got a couple of this.
We've said in previous calls we've got a couple of projects in there that have a high CFM content client-furnished material and they look more like the mining projects.
Those will continue to be -- continue to burn big revenue numbers as we go throughout the rest of this year and into next year.
But I think as I've said and Alan said prior to me we're pretty pleased with the amount of margin dollars coming out of the bottom of Oil &amp; Gas.
Now with regard to I&amp;I we've had a couple of one-time issues that have helped us there.
But clearly that business is really really doing well and we're pleased with that.
But I think overall we're seeing an improvement in the margin potential in the new awards that we're taking in the backlog even as we speak now.
We'll take our next question today from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
David if you look at the Dow/Aramco contract -- and I mean we all know it was under some intense competition so I'll just ask you.
I mean how aggressive were you in that contract? Could you talk about the terms of that contract in particular? And I know you don't like talking about specific contracts but I think it's an important question.
As we sit here what did you have to do to win that contract? Well I'd like to answer it this way.
I think that we provided a pretty competitive offering that came down to the people that the customer trusted to execute the program.
We've had great success with Dow if you think about Kuwait and some of the investments that they've made there.
We've got a strong following within Aramco that believes in the kinds of predictable outcomes that we provide.
And I think that's what sold that project.
It is a very competitive marketplace out there but I wouldn't say that we were overly aggressive in capturing this project and I think it came down to the value proposition that we provided.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then just overall backlog I mean your I&amp;I backlog is obviously at a record.
How hard then will it be to sustain that backlog going forward David? Are there enough prospects out there that you may be able to sustain it? Well I think getting to a $40 billion mark is historic and something that we're really really proud of.
And I think staying there is going to be difficult frankly given the amount of burn that we're going to experience as we go through the next few quarters and work off the first part of that mining backlog that we brought in.
I believe that we will continue to stay at these levels if not improve as we get into 2012.
As I mentioned within E&amp;C we're operating on probably -- I wouldn't put a number on it but there's in excess of 25 feeds that we're working on that if you look at the TIC and I know that's really a meaningless number relative to what our backlog could be but it does run in excess of $30 billion.
So I think when you look at Oil &amp; Gas I think when you look at Mining there's still headroom in mining for growth and significant new awards as we go through the rest of this year and into next.
I think we're poised to continue on a growth curve.
I feel very good about where we sit in the individual markets.
I feel good about except for the United States the stability of many of the markets outside that we deal in.
I think some of the statistics that Mike gave during the prepared remarks around the percentage of our backlog outside the United States shows that our diversity is a great story.
So I think when you put all of those things together I think we're in different markets at different places.
But all in all I think we have the ability to continue to grow as we go into '12.
Now I'll use that lumpy term again that you've heard us talk about in previous calls because frankly the $9.6 billion new award remember there was one project that shifted from Q3 to Q4.
I mean excuse me Q3 to Q2.
That doesn't mean that they were not looking at a robust new award plate for the rest -- the second half of this year and as we go into next.
That's helpful.
Our next question we'll go to Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
I know it's a little early to talk about 2012 but given where backlog is today and kind of the year-over-year growth and change in backlog and your most recent comment with regards to a pickup in burn within the Mining segment can you kind of comment or attempt to kind of bracket even in a wide range what revenue growth could look like or how revenues could ramp in the next couple of quarters? Well with the kind of backlog growth you're right Alex we're seeing -- we are expecting some ramp-up in second half of the year in terms of revenue growth in terms of what we're going to burn in the company.
Looking on to 2012 we really haven't gone through our planning process yet but that's a little difficult to say.
We did do a bottoms-up plan in September and October and are much better prepared to talk about that in our -- in November in our third quarter call.
But certainly as David described the backlog growth that we've seen we've got $40 billion now it's going to be lumpy going forward.
But there are some very attractive prospects out there but -- for the latter half of this year early next year.
It'd be disappointing if we don't see continued ramp-up and revenue burn as we move through 2012.
And just to follow up if there was one item that was kind of at the top of the list of the reason why possibly you didn't raise this year's high end of the EPS guidance what might that one reason be that kind of keeps you holding back a little bit until you see another quarter of earnings develop? I think it's primarily some of the projects that have moved out in the quarters relative to when they're awarded and also the continued delay on some projects that we've got in backlog that we're waiting on governmental approvals.
Right and -- but that's particularly true in the Power segment.
Yes.
Very helpful.
We'll go next to Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Actually just coming back to the guidance again.
I mean you did raise the bottom slightly and kept the top but it seems that actually second half earnings generation would be down for this first half which doesn't seem to make a lot of sense up given your backlog and momentum you're building.
I mean can you just give us a little more color on kind of the moving parts as it relates to the framework of your guidance? Yes let me add -- shed some light on that.
If you take our first half results and annualize it we're right around the top end of the range.
And as we said we do expect because of some delays in projects and some things moving to the right that we'll have a weaker second half in our Power business.
In addition if you look at our business over the last several years corporate G&amp;A goes up in the second half especially in the fourth quarter.
So that'll reduce some profitability.
Take those couple of factors out we expect some good improvement in the rest of the business in the second half.
But given those factors we're being somewhat conservative in saying that the top end of the range will be equal to the first half if you annualize it.
And also can you just give us a taste of what the competitive environment looks like in terms of pricing? We've heard there's at the margin some improvements.
Maybe if you'd give us some color by your different segments? I'm not sure I'd do it by the segments but I think what we've seen is something we talked about before.
We've seen some significantly predatory pricing as we experienced last year and into this year.
Most of those folks have almost filled their shops up.
I think that some of the customers that were leery of that have made some different decisions.
And as such they're coming to companies like us where we demand a little bit higher profit.
I mean unlike our friends in Washington I think profits are good.
I think what we do is we look at every individual project on its own merits and see whether it takes -- it makes the hurdles that we expect given the risks that we're taking.
And as I said earlier I'm pretty pleased with the margin dollars that we're putting in the backlog.
We'll go next to Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> So just a follow-up on the questions we heard earlier on Sadara.
I guess well can you just say whether or not you were the low dollar bidder and if price was the final determinant on that project? You'd have to ask the client that question.
Inc.</strong> They don't talk to me.
Seriously they don't share.
I mean we've got an indication that we were very competitive.
I don't know that we were the absolute lowest.
There was -- several competitors as I understand it that were all grouped together.
And they -- luckily they -- for us they made the decision to choose us.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
A question on the E&amp;C margins.
How much of the difference or what you're seeing right now versus what you might have thought you'd be seeing at this point is related to utilization versus absolute margins? And within that question between Kearl West Qurna and Santos are those ramping up on the schedule you would like to see at this point or is that part of the problem? Well that's part of the problem.
I think it's more utilization and timing than it is the margin dollars in the backlog.
Santos is progressing nicely.
So is Kearl.
So we're -- it's just unfortunate that the way the amount of CFM in Kearl really skews frankly the margin percentage.
But again as I've stated I'm pleased with the margin dollars that we have in backlog based on the risk that we've assumed.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
You talked about 25 feeds with a $30 billion total investment estimate on those projects.
Since you gave that maybe you can give us some historical comparison so we can compare that to where we may have been at different parts of the last cycle.
That's a good question.
I mean it kind of -- if I think back to when I ran E&amp;C it kind of feels like the beginning of that last ramp-up.
But it's completely different.
There's some downstream in there but it's more heavily weighted on the upstream side as well as the petrochemical side.
So we do see that market resurging.
But I guess in sheer dollars it kind of feels like the '05 '06 kind of time frame.
But the engineering content in those projects is a little bit less than it is in say a downstream project than what we anticipated in our last cycle.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I mean I didn't know that the stock price had declined quite a bit since you last reported earnings and your backlog's done nothing but go up.
And presumably the mix of work in your backlog continues to get better as you work off Gabbard's.
I'm just wondering what are you guys thinking about with the cash? And when you look at your Services business is that still 1/4 of what you're doing? It certainly involves a lot of CapEx every year.
So is there a way to monetize anything you have currently? Well I think our -- I'll let Mike mention it but I think our strategy's still the same.
By and large we're looking at acquisition as being a good use of funds when we find something that makes sense from a strategic perspective and the price associated with that opportunity matches with what our expectations are and I'll let Mike talk about it.
Right.
Those are tough criteria to meet and we've been looking.
We haven't really found something that meets those criteria.
And in the meantime we have been buying back stock and it's reasonable to assume that we'll continue to buy back stock especially at these values where we think -- we personally think we're tremendously undervalued.
I think it's a great buy.
We have -- we do have 4 million shares left in the current authorization and it's a good use of funds as we go forward.
For our next question we'll go to Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Well can you give a sense a better sense of how the year's playing out relative to your initial expectations? Obviously you've refined the EPS guidance but you don't guide on bookings and you have a record quarter here.
Is this better than you would have thought at this point? Or basically is the order book to date and what you guys see for the back half roughly consistent with what you guys anticipated in your guidance at the beginning of the year? Yes I think it's in line.
As I said we had one project shift from the third to the second quarter which put it into record territory.
But as we look about the first 6 months of the year and add to it what our prospects suggest we're pretty much on target.
Okay.
And maybe turning to the U.S.
Obviously it seems to be the weak spot.
Do you see -- it sounds like you don't feel any better about this market.
You did announce a contract with Dow and Freeport earlier in the year.
Is the market as weak as you thought it was at the beginning of the year? And maybe some thoughts on what's transpired on the Hill and expectations for businesses that are affected by policy in the back half of the year like infrastructure and things like that? I guess I'll be running for President to answer those questions.
It's interesting.
I look at the U.S.
market right now and I see what we've got kind of in our sights and some things that are like I mentioned are kind of awaiting some permits or some new investment decisions.
If the U.S.
returns at all it's upside for us.
I think our diversity has allowed us to go and capture business outside that keeps us growing in spite of what we see in the U.S.
I'm not sure I can add any color that already hasn't been talked about on the TV around tax policy just some sort of logical energy policy those kinds of things that the U.S.
absolutely has to get figured out if the U.S.
is going to maintain its position in the world market.
Got it.
One last one maybe on Gabbard.
You said that turbine inflation kicks in again in September.
That was previously expected.
Is there a period of time? Is the next couple of quarters kind of pivotal here in terms of the workflow? At what point do you really start to ramp down in terms of the mobilization? And maybe if you could affirm I guess the prior completion date you've given on that project.
I'm guessing that's still intact.
Yes it's still intact.
We're still working the plan that we established 6 8 months ago.
The weather still continues to be a challenge and that's something that's outside of our control.
But we feel pretty good about the progress we're making.
The critical aspects of having the Leviathan there which is one of our jack-up rigs that allows us to install the generator sets is back on station and beginning -- well we're beginning in a couple of weeks the installation in our plan.
We hope to get all of the turbine generator sets set during this next couple-of-month period of time.
But in our plan we have planned in if we don't get it all done to do the remainder in January once the Leviathan is available again.
So we're still working towards the plan we had in place.
Weather is really the only challenging component at this point.
We'll go next to Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
So going back to Jamie's question earlier about Oil &amp; Gas margins and whether we've hit a floor and you guys mentioned that utilization is starting to improve in that part of the business.
And that's not -- that hasn't been part of the issue for the lower margin.
So I mean is it fair to say that we have hit a bottom there? Or is it possible we could still go lower from where we are today? I think -- I mean I think there's a chance it could go a little lower as we work out the rest of this year but in line with the guidance and the plans that we had.
We kind of expected to have a little bit of a low from a percentage perspective.
But on an individual project perspective I think we're still happy.
I believe that the improvement in E&amp;C on a margin production perspective and a profitability production perspective we're looking at '12.
Okay.
And then if you are looking at '12 is it fair to say that what you're booking into your backlog today is higher than the 3.5% margins net that you're reporting? In most cases yes.
Okay all right great.
And I guess one last question.
You mentioned the 25 to 30 feeds that you're working on in Oil &amp; Gas.
Is there a sense of timing on when some of those feeds will turn into EPC contracts? Are you guys looking at the back half of this year? Or are most of these feeds going to turn into larger contracts in '12? It's all over the map.
There's not one quarter where we're anticipating some big slog coming in.
It's really nicely spaced out frankly over the next 6 to 7 quarters.
Okay great.
We'll go now to Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Company.
I guess David in your comments you mentioned that you're thinking about doing some strategic initiatives that are underway.
You kind of put that out there and didn't give a whole lot of detail so I was wondering if you could maybe fill us in a little about some of the things you might be thinking about.
Well I think we're looking at growing all of our markets.
We're looking at strategic initiatives that focus on allowing us to grow within any given markets but also and maybe interest in different geographic markets.
There's some technology plays that we're looking at in various segments of our business.
But there are things that'll enhance our offering and our footprint frankly.
And I really wouldn't want to go past that.
Makes sense.
Are there any end markets at all that you don't do today that can be a new end market that you're going into? Or would it just be kind of a niche in an existing broader end market today? I think it would be niche and in a broader scheme.
Makes sense.
And then just I guess kind of a technical question.
On the Power side it looks like even despite your revenues down pretty significantly margins in are very well.
Is there something that made it unique this quarter? I wouldn't say unique.
I think I'll ask Mike to answer part of that.
But I think we've continued to see a fair amount of work on the Plant Services side the better plant betterment side that we continue to do that has been able to keep the earnings streams coming in in Power even though we're waiting certainly for some of the bigger programs to kick back in.
And we're also wrapping up a couple of jobs that are essentially being -- that were completed in the quarter.
And we had some favorable profit adjustments on those in the quarter.
Great.
Could you care to quantify the profit adjustments this year versus last year? Just so we can maybe get an apples-to-apples on the margins that your earning? There are so many pluses and minuses that's really hard to do.
And we'll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
I was wondering David if could you talk for a second a little bit about your capacity to take on additional work? I mean you've grown backlog and bookings I think probably to a greater extent than most at least to public peers.
And as you talked about the business cycle getting better are you concerned at all that the next wave of projects could offer even greater margins and you wouldn't be able to take advantage of that? Or do you have the ability to continue to add capacity and bring on the special project managers and other key people? Well that's a great question.
I think we have continued capacity in just about all our markets.
And part of it has to do with I think the robust training process that we have in Fluor and how we bring up that next wave of management.
We saw that certainly when we grew during from '05 to '08 and the opportunities that people were afforded to step up.
And I think that's our first avenue towards being able to multiply our coverage.
Secondly we've invested a lot of money in our systems and tools that allow us to have a very robust dispersed execution model to where we're not forced to ramp up in one place versus another like many of our competition or our competitors have to do.
And then finally I think that we're very competitive in the market and I would say one of the employers of choice in our markets.
So not only do we have the organic growth available to us I think we've got the ability to bring in the talent that we need to continue to grow.
I feel really good about where we stand in our ability to continue to grow our people and provide opportunities for growth for not only the folks we have inside but also to attract that next wave of employee in.
But I think the key part is in at growing that organic talent base they clearly understand our tools and systems and what our expectations are and I think that just adds to the quality and the surety of delivery that Fluor provides.
Just one other follow up.
Mike you mentioned that I think for the first 6 months 92% of your work or your bookings were for work outside of the U.S.
What's the breakdown of your current backlog relative to international and domestic work? And how much of it is actually being executed outside the U.S.? John it's about 80% of our backlog is outside of the U.S.
Okay.
And the engineering on that how much of that is being executed outside the U.S.? We don't really have a breakdown...
It's all over the Board but I mean we still have a significant presence from a talent standpoint in the U.S.
and between the various offices that you know.
I guess the way to explain that is our U.S.
offices we probably during the trough or the financial meltdown we probably decreased our U.S.
staff by about I don't know 15%.
And I think we've kind of stabilized to where we're back up from there.
And I'd say we're probably 5% down from where we were before.
But John our systems our staff we're able to work share around the globe 24/7 and a lot of these jobs have both domestic and non-U.S.
content.
Okay.
But it sounds as if I mean at least compared to the previous peak more of the work as a percentage is going to be completed outside of the U.S.? Well from a location of project you're absolutely correct.
But again the numbers I may have misspoke.
The 5% down since the peak is basically the global number.
But I think the fact of the matter is is that we're going to continue to utilize the talent that we have based on that talent and we've got a competitive offering when you combine it with our global reach.
I mean we've really spent a lot of time and effort in perfecting in that dispersed process that allows us to move stuff as Mike says around the globe and really work 24/7.
And for our next question we'll go to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
What I have noticed is that you've done a really commendable job in keeping G&amp;A under control and really versus your initial guidance it seems like it's tracking much lower.
I would love to get a sense in how we should be looking at corporate G&amp;A for the rest of this year? And as you ramp up in 2012 do you know what the run rate could be as a follow-up? Let me first address this year.
If you look back at the last several years we are typically lower in the first half in terms of our G&amp;A run rate.
We usually see a modest increase in the third quarter in terms of our G&amp;A.
And just given our spending patterns and when a lot of our renewals come up for maintenance and for other things we see some fairly heavy spending in the fourth quarter.
And we expect that pattern to continue this year.
We did reduce our outlook for G&amp;A by about $10 million this quarter versus what we talked about last quarter on the call.
That reflects what you've said the really good performance that we've seen in the first half.
But we do expect some increase in the second half and some of that could be compensation-based as well as we saw some increase this year over the last year due to stock-based compensation and could see more of that in the second half of the year.
Got it.
And for next year I mean would it be if you do see an increase is it again going to be driven more by compensation? Or as you ramp up would you have any requirements outside of that? I think as we look at -- I mean it's early.
We haven't done our plan as I said earlier.
I think as we look at 2012 the only basis for any major shift in corporate G&amp;A would just be the normal annual salary increases things like that which should be rather modest.
We'll go next to Avi Fisher with BMO Capital Markets.
It seems like you said that I&amp;I margin strength is due to the heavy engineering component in the phases of the contracts.
When do those projects convert to the EPC? Or to the P&amp;C side I guess? The I&amp;I margins were very attractive the last 2 quarters I would say higher than normal.
That was reflective of a number of items that occurred in terms of progress in terms of settlements and things like that.
It really wasn't due to any kind of special engineering content at this stage.
Those margins typically are more typical in the 3% to 4% range than what we've seen.
And I think over time as we move through these large projects we'll be getting back to that range.
What it just really reflects is just super performance in the last 2 quarters with the I&amp;I business.
And that includes closing out other contracts and reaching settlements on certain items and what have you.
It's been exceptional performance.
Since the close of the quarter have you sensed any changes in clients' willingness to spend CapEx or spend money or pursue projects? I think we've had some decisions that have gone forward but I think that most of the markets that we're really pursuing we're pretty far down in that decision-making loop.
I mean commodities held by and large which continues to push the mining segment all prices have stayed reasonably stable and people have gotten their approvals in place.
I think the projects just 2 kind of color comment there.
One is projects have gotten so big that many companies are having to go back to their boards multiple times and get these approvals and the impact to us is the impact of it pushing out a quarter or 2.
So I think the diligence around the capital spending decisions has increased within our customer base.
But also I think a lot of the capital plans that we chase there is a long gestation period on it anyway.
And I think that's what has pushed a lot of the new awards around within a quarter in a year but also as I mentioned relative to Oil &amp; Gas pushing it towards the 2012 timeframe.
And do you have any -- or significant backlog that's not burning? No.
Okay.
And on Kearl what's the impact of the sort of the situations there with the modular transportation? And being back to you I guess.
Well that's not part of our scope but it really doesn't have any impact.
Okay.
And finally just taking a stab at guidance.
You are normally pretty conservative with guidance.
Would you qualify your guidance now as normally conservative? There's nothing unusual about our guidance this quarter.
That was an interesting way to put it well I'll give you that.
And we'll go next to Andrew Obin with Merrill Lynch.
My favorite question.
On cash flow we went back to burning capital on sort of working capital.
Could you sort of explain what happened in terms of work in progress and receivables? And when do you think this will reverse itself? I mean what you saw and you saw our revenue burn and increase in the quarter over the prior quarter.
And with that you saw an increase in both accounts receivable and in work in process.
Andrew that's just a reflection of the growth we're seeing in the business.
It's going to be a little bit lumpy.
It's also impacted by where we stand on our collections with LOGCAP.
That our LOGCAP contract also has some -- now it's a very overused word but also has some very lumpy cash flows.
Since the end of the quarter we've had some significant collections on LOGCAP.
And our cash position is back up to a little over $2.6 billion about where it was at the end of the first quarter.
So we've seen some of the receivables and work from process come down.
Just for the second half of the year should we expect working capital will -- or working capital use to be a neutral a use of cash or you think you're going to get back some of that working capital used that you had in second quarter? I think given the growth we're seeing and the fact that in response to an earlier question I said that we would expect our revenue burn to increase as we go through the second half of the year.
I think you could see a modest use of cash during the second half of the year.
It won't be great but it will just be modest.
Sure.
And could you just comment about chemical opportunities in the U.S.
going forward? I know U.S.
is sort of not the most exciting market but there's been some announcements in the industry.
What are you seeing there a couple of years out? Well I just was being somewhat flippant about the U.S.
economy given the circumstances.
There are some pretty good things going on right now.
I think one of the projects that was mentioned is the Dow project at Freeport.
We are seeing a larger level of study work in that particular market but it's more around the downstream derivatives which I think plays in well with our skill set.
It's the de-bottlenecking of crackers it's the monetization of that downstream and upgrading that production capacity primarily given the change in the gas price.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just getting back to that $30 billion of TIC that's in feed right now in Oil &amp; Gas will that have to require a JV partner or any sort of M&amp;A activity in order to book? Or do you think you can pretty much do it organically? Well I think we could do it organically but I wouldn't say that we wouldn't look at JV partners in some areas.
We've got some really good partners around the globe on certain projects and we'll look to leverage that.
But our ability to do it organically is not a limiting factor.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then can you just sort of give us a taste of what sort of end markets? Is it predominantly mostly going to be upstream related with a little slice of petchem and maybe some refining? Just any color on that.
As I said it's all over the board and I think the way you described it is appropriate.
It's mostly upstream with really good prospects and projects in both petrochemicals and in refining.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And just sort of one more question going back to the comments on cash flow is one of the good things about Fluor is that if you were to look at contract capital as a percent of revenue it always hovers around a very low level.
Do you see that changing much as you pursue more lump-sum-oriented projects particularly within Oil &amp; Gas? Or does the working capital characteristics sort of stay the same at Fluor? We don't really see it changing much.
In fact if we would have a higher lump-sum content it would be even better.
On lump-sum jobs we tend to get advanced payments on some jobs you work on the client's money throughout the whole life of the job.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Would you also say you're probably being compensated too on the margin side? Where traditionally you probably do more cost plus but pursuing more lump-sum in the future you're seeing better pricing on that? Generally yes but it's all over the place.
I mean it's really hard to generalize on that.
The problem with how large and diverse we are I mean there's a lot of moving parts and to give any guidance along one dynamic would be misleading because we really have a convergence of a lot of good things I think happening to us now.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Mike is there any carryover of the Power closeouts into the third quarter? Not to the extent that we're seeing in the first and second there'll be less.
Okay.
So just a little bit then.
Right.
And then David on the competitive side how much of a factor do you think flexibility on terms and conditions is in winning new contracts in today's environment relative to offering discounts on price? We've seen some -- if you go back a little bit of time we saw some pretty interesting things around terms.
That's moderated.
And I wouldn't suggest that anything we're putting into our backlog today is much difference from a term standpoint of what we've historically seen.
We have seen an erosion of margin availability but I think as we get through this year and into next you're going to start to see that leverage pick back up and see some better opportunities.
But as I've said previously I'm pretty pleased with what's going into the backlog right now as we start to work towards 2012 and '13.
Okay so no material trade up in risk in exchange for kind of holding pricing sort of...
No no.
We'll go next to Chris Wiggins with Oppenheimer.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Did you buy back any shares so far in the third quarter? No we have not yet.
Okay.
And you'd called out some increased capital spending in the Government business in the quarter.
Does that continue into the third quarter? Or have you kind of wrapped that up? We had a roughly $100 million of CapEx in the second quarter.
And that's really not in the Government business.
That's in our American equipment business.
That's in Global Services.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
It looks like there was a risk added in the Q about uncertainty of past or future acquisitions.
Is that just a new generic? Or does that point to anything specific? That's just generic risk.
We take a close look at our risk factors every quarter and we'll update them as appropriate.
We'll go next to Sameer Rathod with Macquarie.
Some of your earlier comments indicated that projects were getting pushed out and delayed.
Given the murky macro picture can you indicate what you're seeing today? How it compares to what we saw in 2008? Well I think there's more surety today than there was as far as new awards.
I mean you got to look at what we were earning in 2008 we're basically taking in the backlog in '06 and '07.
So if I compare it to the '05 timeframe it feels about the same.
But the things that were coming in the backlog in 2008 were what we were earning on it it'd come in a prior time.
So I don't think that from a macro standpoint in the markets that we are in that are really moving the needle that we see much change.
And we'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> You made a comment on M&amp;A and technology and I wanted to know if you would just drill down a little bit further into that because it runs counter to historically your view on technology and your idea of being agnostic.
So I'm just wondering is there's something that's changed in the specific end market? Or something that's come across that's more intriguing to you about that? Well I don't think we've necessarily changed that agnostic approach.
I think we're looking at some things that with a fresh pair of eyes so to speak and in certain places I wouldn't want to be specific about that.
But by and large nothing that we're looking at would demonstratively change the way we look at technology ownership.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if you'll allow me on the P3 market it was something that we talked a lot about last year.
It hasn't been much talked about at this year.
Just any updates on your pipeline and opportunities? The pipeline is still healthy it's just these are just very long development cycles on the P3 side.
The one thing we talked about was I-95/395 that we think has a good chance of closing in the fourth quarter.
We still believe that's the business model of choice for those kind of infrastructure projects that are out there.
But our growth currently in I&amp;I is really been on the Mining side as opposed to P3 side.
But the P3 side pipeline still remains robust.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the call back to David Seaton for any closing remarks Thank you operator.
I really would like to thank everyone for participating in this call this afternoon specifically given how the day went.
I'm sure you're all headed to the cocktail hour.
But as we've indicated I think in the prepared remarks as well as in the Q&amp;A we feel very good about the strength of our results for the first half of the year.
We continue to look at a number of opportunities that will position our company for growth over the long term.
Again we greatly appreciate your interest and your confidence in our company.
And with that have a good day.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fluor Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference will be available at approximately 8 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 9 at the following telephone number (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 5931473 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Steuert Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed.
We have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making prepared remarks today.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information and there is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of those risk factors in our 10-K which was filed on February 23 2011 and in our Form 10-Q filed on August 4 2011.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chief Executive Officer.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us here today.
Before I get started I'd like to briefly comment on the tragedy that we experienced over last week in Afghanistan.
As you may have read last Saturday in Kabul a convoy transporting NATO military personnel and civilian contractors were attacked.
A suicide car bomb with over 1 500 pounds of explosives struck an armored carrier within this convoy.
Regrettably 13 people lost their lives in this attack including 7 Fluor LOGCAP employees.
This is a very difficult time and we would like to express our thoughts and prayers for the families and friends of those who lost their lives in this tragic tragic event.
Getting onto the regular presentation.
I'd like for [ph] to turn to Slide #3 and talk a little bit about our financial results.
I want to start by covering some of the highlights of the third quarter.
Consolidated revenue in the third quarter totaled $6 billion which represents a 10% increase over third quarter of 2010.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor in the quarter were $135 million or $0.78 per diluted share.
Our segment profit totaled $236 million including a $38 million pretax charge for additional costs associated with the Greater Gabbard project mainly associated with the installation of subsea cabling.
As you know challenges in the cable installation process had been largely caused by the bankruptcy of a critical subcontractor back in January.
This forced the project to secure alternative vessels and a cable burial equipment.
The project is progressing and is now approximately 90% complete.
Importantly turbines are generating power that is flowing into the grid and we expect to be substantially complete with the overall project in early 2012.
Moving back to our results for the third quarter.
Our strong market position has once again enabled us to book substantial new work and grow our backlog to a new record.
This third quarter new awards totaled $6.7 billion including a good mix across a diverse portfolio.
As a result of our strong bookings in the quarter our backlog grew by $1.5 billion to a new high of $41.8 billion.
If you would turn to Slide 4.
The Oil &amp; Gas segment had new awards $1.6 billion in the third quarter including an upstream award for a topsides facility for an offshore platform in Canada and additional scope on a large petrochemical project in the Middle East.
Ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas segment is $14.6 billion.
And we continue to work on numerous front end programs several of which have recently been announced.
Our Fluor offshore solutions unit was awarded the Front-End Design and Engineering or FEED contract by Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Company for a new offshore facility located at the Nostra field off the coast of Abu Dhabi.
Nostra full field development project include 7 well-head towers and facilities including gas processing oil separation a utilities' platform as well as living quarters.
It also includes infill subsea pipelines and export pipelines.
This is Fluor's third major offshore FEED within the last year for this very important customer.
The downstream group was awarded a contract by North West Redwater Partnership to provide FEED services for their new refinery in Alberta Canada.
Fluor will be responsible of 2 of the 4 process units for this large refinery complex that will upgrade oil sands bitumen and we expect to secure the EPC contracts after the completion of the FEED phase.
I also want to point out that during the quarter we made an investment in a leading software recovery technology with the acquisition of Goar Allison &amp; Associates.
This acquisition further strengthens our sulfur group with the addition of 2 patent technologies one of which is a unique sulfur degassing process that has become a technology of choice for many of our customers.
Turning to Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
The group had another great quarter with new awards of $2.8 billion.
The largest award in the quarter was processing facilities for Newmont Mining their Conga project in Peru and a self-performing EPC contract within our infrastructure segment and earthworks activities at the same site.
The segment's backlog rose to $22.3 billion which is a 29% increase over last year.
The Mining &amp; Metals business line continues to work on a lengthy list of FEED contracts and while recent volatility in metal prices has caused some uncertainty in the market there is no evidence that our mining clients have slowed their capital investment plans.
Moving to Government segment.
The group booked $1.7 billion in new awards during the third quarter including the annual funding of both the Portsmouth and Savannah River contracts for the Department of Energy and an increase in funding for LOGCAP IV task orders in Afghanistan.
Ending backlog rose to $1.8 billion which is up from $1 billion a year ago.
The group continues to perform very well as evidenced by the 24% increase in the segment's profit from a year ago.
Global Services Operations &amp; Maintenance business line booked $302 million in new maintenance contracts and renewals of existing long-term contracts.
Solid profit contribution from the equipment.
The temporary staffing business line helps this segment grow profits by 11% over the third quarter of 2010.
Although market conditions continue to be very weak the Power segment had new awards of $470 million in the quarter including a major environmental compliance program for alumina here in Texas.
During the quarter we also announced the award of the engineering procurement and construction contract for a new 540-megawatt combined cycle gas-fired power project in Texas.
Once the client receives its final EPA permit we expect to receive the full notice to proceed and we'll take the project in the backlog at that time.
Please turn to Slide 5.
Last month we announced that we had become the major -- majority investor in the NuScale power small modular reactor technology company.
This company expects to invest approximately 30 -- we expect to invest approximately $30 million here in 2011.
This move acknowledges our belief that small modular reactors or SMRs will be a commercially viable alternative for the next generation of nuclear energy deployment.
Now we're very excited to be part of that.
In addition to making an investment in the company NuScale Fluor has secured the exclusive rights to provide engineering and construction services for the future of NuScale SMR facilities that are installed.
We also recently announced the formation of a project Pacific consortium the GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy as an engineering procurement and construction partner to pursue the nuclear new build projects in Poland.
As you may remember we have quite a presence there with the office in Gliwice.
Poland's power utility is expected to complete its vendor selection in mid-2013 and has targeted 2020 as the commercial date of operation for its first nuclear power plant.
In summary Fluor had another strong quarter of new bookings which has resulted in the 6 consecutive quarter of backlog growth.
We continue to be very positive about our prospects for growing in the out years.
While there are continuing concerns about the global macroeconomic environment that we live in we have not seen any material change in our clients' capital spending outlook up to this point.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike to review some of the details of our operating performance and the corporate financial metrics as well as our financial outlook for the balance of this year and our initial guidance for 2012.
Mike? Thank you David and good afternoon.
The detailed results for each operating segment can be found in the earnings release and in the 10-Q.
My comments today will focus on a few highlights and corporate items.
Please turn to Slide 6 of the presentation.
As David mentioned gross consolidated backlog increased to a record $41.8 billion at the end of the quarter.
The percentage of fixed price contracts and overall backlog was reduced to 14% from 24% last quarter.
The main driver of this change from the prior quarter was the result of a client -- from the [Indiscernible]  projects in Australia electing to convert that contract from fix priced to cost plus.
Secondarily the great majority of our new awards in the quarter were cost-plus contracts.
Backlog for projects outside the U.S.
now stands at 80%.
Now moving onto corporate items on Slide 7.
G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $37 million which compares with $40 million a year ago.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 30%.
Let me shift to the balance sheet.
The consolidated cash and marketable securities balance totaled $2.8 billion at quarter end up from $2.5 billion a year ago.
We've repurchased a total of 4.2 million shares during the quarter for $241 million which completed the company's previously announced share repurchase program.
As we announced today the company authorized a new 12 million share repurchase program.
During the quarter we also paid $22 million in dividends.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $79 million which compares with $88 million a year ago.
And late in the third quarter the company completed a very attractively priced $500 million offering of 10-year unsecured notes to be used for general corporate purposes and to enhance our cash balance in the United States.
Overall Fluor's financial condition remains robust and we are very well positioned to fund the growth that we expect to see ahead of us.
Finally let me conclude my comments by talking about our guidance for the remainder of 2011 and for 2012 which is shown on Slide 8.
The company's guidance for 2011 EPS has been narrowed to a range of $3.20 to $3.40 per share reflecting the strength of our recent operating results.
Looking ahead to 2012 the company expects varying levels of profit growth for all business segments except Power which continues to experience particularly weak market conditions.
The company is establishing its initial guidance for 2012 at a range of $3.40 to $3.80 per share.
This range includes an estimated $0.15 to $0.25 per share impact for the continued funding and operations of the company's recently announced investment in NuScale Power.
Going forward beginning in the fourth quarter Fluor's share of NuScale's results will flow through the operating -- will flow through as an operating expense in the Power segment.
In 2012 the company expects robust revenue growth due in part to growing client-furnished materials or CFM which may put pressure on margins.
Our focus will be to continue the growing net income and earnings per share on an absolute basis.
In addition our guidance for 2012 assumes G&amp;A expense will be in the range of $170 million to $190 million capital expenditures of $250 million to $300 million and an effective tax rate of 32% to 35%.
Operator with that we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions first on guidance and then on NuScale.
First Mike on guidance the share repurchase you announced just is that included in your 2012 outlook? And then if we adjust for NuScale your guide implies what? $3.60 to $4 if we just want to do an apples-and-apples comparison.
I'm just trying to figure out why the guide is so low? If Gabbard is running off you had $0.13 in charges this quarter which we add back.
We look at our backlog today relative to where we were last year you're up like 56%.
So I'm just -- and again this is x NuScale.
It implies like 8% -- if we take the midpoint it applies like 8% EPS growth.
So I'm trying to figure out why the guide is so conservative.
Are there other problem projects? Is it conservatism? Is it margins? And then my second question with regards to NuScale I guess what's the risk that this investment becomes even more and over what time period do you expect to earn a profit on this business? Like how long before this investment pays off? And with that I'll get back in queue.
Okay.
To answer your first question no the share repurchase program we announced today is really not reflected in our guidance for next year in terms of impact.
I'll start but I'll let David also help on the earnings guidance.
It does not reflect any issues or problem projects out there that are on the horizon for us.
Obviously the range is fairly consistent with the range that we've given in terms of what's the range that we've given in prior years.
It does reflect a fairly high level of global uncertainty at this point.
It also reflects -- this is early November of 2011 so we have a ways to go to get into 2012.
And normally we do adjust our range as we go through there.
There's clearly some uncertainty being this far away.
But I wouldn't be concerned about that.
Research Division</strong> But there's not a margin issue or there's not an issue where you have stuff in backlog that you don't expect to move forward so that the burn rate for 2012 is unusually low? No.
In fact my comments -- I'm trying to make the comment I think our burn rate's going to be fairly robust in 2012.
We do have a slightly different business mix.
Mining is still very strong the Oil &amp; Gas side the offload of upstream activity and we're seeing increasing amount of some offshore activity that has a lot of CFM in it.
So I think we'll see margin pressures not because of anything in terms of project issues it's more of a mix issue and a reflection of the fact that we do have substantial CFM.
Research Division</strong> Yes it still implies single-digit EPS growth I don't know.
So it's Mike being Mike? I don't know about that Jamie.
Research Division</strong> Well all right.
So Mike -- so David sorry I don't know if you want to comment.
And then just the expected payoff on NuScale I think some investors feel like the investment's a little high and over what time period do we actually see this thing pay off? Yes.
I think Mike might hit on the head relative to our guidance.
I'm pretty bullish on what we've got in backlog.
There's nothing in backlog that we're concerned about being removed or slowed.
We're kind of at that inflection point that we've been talking about for a couple of quarters relative to E&amp;C's earnings for several major projects that have yet to be booked into that backlog.
But we clearly see Energy &amp; Chemicals growing as we move into next year.
You know what I don't know if it's Mike being conservative or me being conservative.
I think the range as Mike said is consistent with what we've done before and there is a drag because of the expense of the NuScale investment.
On NuScale and specifically on that market I think that the small modular reactor market has a potential to be huge.
I think when you think of Fukujima and the older technologies and then you look at security issues and otherwise I think the market for this size reactor in series is part of the way of the future.
I really believe in this piece of the market.
We're looking at it on a year-on-year basis.
We were able to take the stake at a very low cost and we'll continue to invest in it as we go through the years.
We're looking at completing the CDC or the design license sometime between now and '14.
And we will be prudent in how we manage that investment.
Obviously we believe that we helped this company attract other investors and our expectation is to bring them in as part of this program which shouldn't limit the amount of expense we have to put in until we see profitability being returned.
I think the overall investment will be very positive to the company in the out years and the ability to do the engineering construction on these around the globe is a position that we're very happy with.
And we'll take our next question from Yuri Lynk with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on Jamie's question on the guidance.
I guess it was a little bit more surprising if one considers the I&amp;I margins.
If you strip out the loss we're still well north of 4% in the quarter and they've been there all year.
So what can we -- are you still guiding towards lower margins in the I&amp;I segment as the mining work starts to flow through? And when could we expect that to start to hit? Well we're in the stage of many of those projects where we're transitioning to the construction base of that project.
And that's also the time when the CFM kicks off.
So you kind of got a little bit of a double whammy there where we're transitioning and we're not going to make the same kind of dollars associated with the projects at that stage as it relates to the increase in CFM.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And on the Oil &amp; Gas side margins have been pretty steady there.
What can we expect in 2012 from some of the newer work that you've booked in terms of a margin impact? Is it more or less the same or should we start to see a tick-up there? I think we should see a marginal tick-up as we get into next year in E&amp;C margin.
We will take our next question from Andy Kaplowtski (sic) [Andy Kaplowitz] with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So the I&amp;I business revenue ramp is hard to predict I know but I&amp;I is up over 50% year-over-year in backlog and revenue's up 10% or a little bit more.
So I'm trying to figure out when the ramp up the bigger ramp up is really going to start? Are we sort of on the cusp of a bigger ramp up? Is it just very hard to predict? Can you talk about some of these mining projects and when they're really going to move? Andy they are moving.
I think we'll see a ramp up certainly in the first half of 2012 you see on a quarter-by-quarter basis you'll see revenue ramp up in I&amp;I.
I believe also seeing some of that a little bit of that this year but certainly not to the extent that that backlog has grown.
And also Andy you also have more projects coming into that backlog and I would comment that the duration of many of these projects are longer than we've experienced in the mining sector before.
So it's going to ramp up and it's going to stay up I think for some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
David so the bare thesis on the floor at least one of them is that backlog is peaked and there's nothing more to go here on backlog.
So how do you feel about the $40-plus billion of backlog that you have now for the next year your conviction level around more mining prospects coming in and keeping that I&amp;I backlog flat to up and Oil &amp; Gas growing from here? I think we're going to continue to grow.
I think it's going to be -- we'll invoke that word that we've always used about being lumpy.
I think it's going to come up it's going to go down a little bit as we go through the next few quarters.
When you look at the prospects that we're pursuing the prospects that we know we're going to get but we have not yet put into backlog I think it allows us to grow backlog as we get towards the end of next year.
The prospect list is very robust but it's kind of a change.
I mean if you look at us 80% of our business is outside the United States.
That's obviously a historic high for us.
I don't see that changing anytime soon.
And I think our diversity of market and geography is really starting to pay dividends.
I'm really bullish on our ability to grow this thing beyond the $40 billion.
But I'd only caution with that lumpiness word that there'll probably be some quarters where our backlog will be reduced from the highs just to return there or above in an out course.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Levine JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So you just indicated that you don't see anything changing with regard to the bias toward international but you have had a couple of new announcements here and there in the U.S.
including couple of potential ones here with power coming back.
So I mean I guess I would ask are you at all incrementally optimistic that parts of that business start to come back over the next year versus maybe 6 to 12 months ago? And which businesses do you see emerging first as growth drivers within the U.S.
if and when the market ever comes back for you? Yes.
I don't want to be too pessimistic about the United States.
I think that you kind of see the press like I do and I wish it was this November we would have the election not to give you any opinion on where I stand politically but I just don't think many people have the courage to make a lot of decisions before that election.
I wish it was already over.
I believe that Power will continue to be a major segment for us in the United States.
When you think about what they've been able to deliver over the last couple of years from an earnings perspective that will return.
I believe that once the EPA starts to permit some of these gas programs that are waiting I mean there's probably 2 or 3 projects right now that we've won in the Power segment but they're waiting on their [ph] permits.
So I think that that market is very important to us.
We have a great position in it and that's regardless of the fuel source.
I think another piece of that particular market is the environmental compliance programs that are coming.
You saw where we announced the Luminant program.
That's the first of quite a few projects in that particular segment of Power.
So I'm pretty bullish about the out years.
I think they're at a point right now where they're finishing many projects and taking up those earnings.
And I think we're going to start to see our backlog improve in Power as we get towards the middle of next year.
I think another market that will provide work for us is a historic market for us and that's in the petrochemical and chemical market.
There are several programs that our customers are looking at to take advantage of the gas play.
We're positioned for several of them.
But I think there's also a fair amount of upgrading that's going to take place in the existing facilities because they've been starved of capital over the last decade for the investments primarily been outside the United States.
I still believe that we're one of the preeminent players in infrastructure as it relates to the public-private partnership approach to that market.
So I feel that those are just 3 that I think will help us grow but we're not going to wait on it.
That's why we've been so aggressive in looking outside of the United States and changing the mix of our projects.
Research Division</strong> That certainly makes sense.
And maybe as my follow-up there could you comment on the circumstances regarding the conversion of the Gladstone contract to cost plus what motivated that and may be your comfort level around executing in additional work in Australia? I'm very bullish about Australia and our ability to execute.
I'm very [ph] contract mode.
That specific contract I mean that was the whole idea of converting to reimbursable was always an option in that contract.
We got to a point where the customer just felt more comfortable with the reimbursable approach and we were eager to accommodate them within that confines of that contract.
So it de-risks the project for us which I like.
But there was nothing significant that forced us into that position.
But Australia is a great place for us whether it's oil and gas mining and I think infrastructure has some opportunities down there as well.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First of all I just wanted to congratulate you on NuScale since you bought a great technology and I'd probably concur that maybe I'm the only the other fool who thinks that SMRs are going to be the future as well.
But I guess would like some color on -- as we look at the opportunity going forward how would you break it up into international versus the U.S.
especially with coal retirements coming up over the next several years in the U.S.? And as we look at the international portion of it what are your assumptions about export licenses for some of the components that you might be requiring to export? On the latter part I'm not sure.
It's a little premature to answer that question.
I think that when you look as you said the coal retirements -- but I also think that you have some older nuclear plants in the fleet here in the United States that will be coming up for operating permit renewals.
And I think in some cases they may be constrained in how well they can do that.
Those were huge power loads that will come off the system.
And I think this is an example of one of the technologies that will be employed to replace those megawatts both on like I said the nuclear business but also on coal.
I think that and the business plan that NuScale has that looks at the United States first.
I think that most of the world is looking for the NRC stamp of approval which is why we're focused on that design certification.
And my guess is that you'll see the first units deployed here in the United States.
But then I believe that it will very quickly become something that is used on more of a global scale than in the United States.
So I think all in all in the out years I see more outside the United States than I do inside the United States.
The design of this facility the safety it's completely passive.
You don't have the same kind of situation that you would have -- that we experienced to Fukujima.
So I think it's going to start in the States and we'll replace some of those megawatts.
But I also think there's a security aspect to it.
When you think of some of the key installations around the United States whether it's the New York Stock Exchange or whether it's a military installation I think there's great applicability for that.
And I think that's where it will first be deployed.
Research Division</strong> That's pretty interesting actually.
I guess my second question is in regards to the opportunity on the chemical side that you talked about earlier on.
Obviously the shales in the U.S.
have provided an interesting opportunity for a buildout in the U.S.
As you look at that opportunity for you do you feel that you're disadvantaged to some degree not having a cracker technology of your own? Or do you feel that these successes you've had internationally you can replicate them here without a cracker technology? Well I don't think we need a cracker technology to be successful.
We made a concerted decision several years ago that to remain agnostic in that market and I think that actually gives us an advantage over companies that do have those technologies.
Because when you look at many of these programs the upgrade of the cracker itself is only a small component of the total and we have the ability and the experience to do the entire facility where maybe some of the other competitors do not.
It's a market that we've worked in forever and we're quite comfortable in being able to compete in those markets.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
So I wanted to follow up on that.
I was going to ask about technology also and maybe press you a little bit on that answer.
But in terms -- obviously buying NuScale as a technology acquisition and you talked about some other technology acquisitions in the quarter.
And then going forward I guess maybe historically technology hasn't been as important.
Any reason to think that might change going forward? And if you look at how companies like KBR or CBI position their technology platforms do you view any new risks associated with not having a technology? No I think we're just being selective.
When you look at Goar Allison and the technologies there it kind of completes our sulfur plant expertise.
And when you think about any of the oil and gas that's being explored and extracted now there's a high sulfur content.
So it's kind of the market leading us to have that full capability to deal with those fuels.
I don't see -- I think that this is 2 examples where we're going to look to take a position in a technology to secure a market position.
But I don't think we're disadvantaged by just like cracker technologies.
It's interesting but our customers frankly have commoditized that market.
And we want to make sure that we're only buying technologies that create a position for us in something that's a longer term play than what we've seen in some of the other technologies.
I don't want to signal that all of a sudden Fluor's going to be this big technology-driven company and the R&amp;D associated would be supporting that.
But we are going to be selective and look for acquisition opportunities that may or may not house a technology position or a patent of some sort.
But clearly when they're opportunistic like Goar Allison was and like NuScale I think you'll see us be opportunistic there.
Okay.
I'm curious on the Oil &amp; Gas margin if you could drill down a little bit more this quarter and then your visibility on '12 and maybe how far away you are from a crossover point in revenues where you're absorbing fixed cost will be consistently back over 4%.
No I think as we get into next year there's a couple of comments I'll make associate with.
One is when you look at the current backlog we haven't had the sizable piece of that being in the refining sector.
Although as you saw in our release and in our comments prepared comments here about the refinery in Canada it's a market that clearly is starting to come back and we'll participate in it.
And the significance in that is that that particular piece of the market has a higher engineering content than say an upstream project.
I think petrochemicals are pretty consistent with the refining sector.
So we're starting to see petrochemicals come back.
We're starting to see some of the refining programs come back.
But right now we're sitting with the majority of our backlog being upstream.
So from a margin percentage basis it might look lower.
But from a profit dollars perspective we're quite happy.
As we get into next year and into '13 I think you're going to see a lot more petrochemical and refining in our backlog and we'll start to see the leverage result I think that we experienced when we were in the height of the boom what in '08 '07 '08 timeframe.
So I kind of think we're kind of at the bottom.
The projects that we're bringing in are not margin-challenged the way we look at it.
We're not necessarily buying backlog.
We're absolutely looking for profitable backlog to put in and I think that within the E&amp;C sector you'll start to see improvement as we get into next year.
We'll take our next question from Richard Paget with WJB Capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The new award level in Government Services was the highest in a while.
And I know it's part of this annual re-up of Portsmouth and Savanna and you had some LOGCAP task orders in there.
But I mean did you get the sense that maybe some of this is agency spending kind of before austerity measures really kicked in in a spend it or lose it type scenario? And what kind of early indications are you guys getting of your particular programs and what they might look over the next couple of years? Absolutely not on the first question.
The significance in the LOGCAP is the U.S.
government kind of changed their authorization process or at least caught up so it was almost like a double dip for us in LOGCAP this quarter which grew the backlog.
And as you can appreciate in that business it's a book and burn business.
So I do not in any form or fashion believe that the government's spending to use it or lose it.
We are not seeing even with the rhetoric you see in the newspaper [ph] a plan to reduce the number of heads in Iraq or Afghanistan.
And what I mean by that is we're basically charged with the care and feeding of the troops and the associated NATO forces.
And it's about numbers of heads not what their head looks like.
So a war fighter eats the same food gets the same laundry service and everything else the same number of beds that we provide and then they change to more of a policing and nation building kind of activity.
So from that standpoint we don't have any indication that anytime soon you're going to see a dramatic decrease in the number of heads that are supporting those actions in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then David you talked on the last call about some of the FEEDs that you were working on that could translate as much as $30 billion in back end projects.
Has that number changed at all? Yes.
Not really.
I mean some of them have gone into backlog and they've been replaced by others.
I still think as I said there's a robust prospect list but there's also several FEEDs that we're doing in oil and gas and in mining that will translate into EPC or major EPC awards as we get into next year.
Those are very large programs.
We can't talk about it right now but we all already have that are awaiting at a permit here or a decision by a customer there.
But I see great growth opportunities based on the FEEDs that we're doing because those FEEDs I see going to the EPC phase.
They're not dreams being looked at but the arithmetic is marginal.
All of these programs have good returns for our customers and they're very bullish on their spending habits.
We'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Dave just coming back to awards and backlog just focusing more on the Oil &amp; Gas side.
You guys discussed a couple of the FEEDs that were expected to go to EPC and previously you talked about potentially reaching record backlogs in the Oil &amp; Gas segment by the end of '12.
I mean from what you see today do you still see that as a possibility? I see it as a possibility yes.
I mean I think that that market is poised to really turn back to what we saw a couple of years ago.
I don't know that I would categorize it as record backlog within E&amp;C but certainly it would be a significant contributor to growing backlog for the corporation.
Got you.
And just shifting over to the Power segment.
You saw a big step down in margins which I think you had anticipated previously.
Just kind of looking into '12 are you anticipating that you'll remain at these levels going forward? I think it won't be at historic averages but I think it's going to improve as we get through next year.
I understand that our expense on NuScale will flow through that segment.
So it's kind of apples and oranges when you think about the ongoing EPC work that we're doing and then the investment that will flow through that segment.
We'll take our next question from Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
One Dave could you speak a little bit about the competition that you're seeing in the markets? I mean understanding that CFM content is impacting margins obviously in Oil &amp; Gas right now.
But is the work that you're booking currently in backlog is that at a higher margin than what you're currently reporting now? I'm not sure I want to answer that question but I'd give you this we are seeing improvements in a lot of the markets and we're greatly positioned I think in most of those.
I think the whole margin issue is going to be lumpy as we go through the years.
I do not -- I still see predatory pricing on the part of some of our competition.
And frankly I'm quite happy to stay out of that foray and pick the projects where our value proposition is recognized and appreciated by our customers.
I think that will result in better margins as we go forward particularly in E&amp;C as well as Power.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as it relates to NuScale I mean do you see any potential offsets to the annual kind of R&amp;D expenditure looking too soon starting in '12 and probably running into '13 and '14 such as for instance signing up of a first customer or obviously there's been discussion that there could be money for SMR R&amp;D spending in the 2012 budget? I think that what we've done is the $0.15 to $0.25 I think is the upper end and clearly it's a range.
But I look for more investors in that organization including potentially federal funding that would reduce that EPS drag as we get into the latter part of next year and certainly into '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question is are you seeing obviously with the size of the backlog given where it is now any markets in terms of markets whom we serve in which there are any capacity constraints? No.
I don't see any -- not on our side.
I think what we've been able to do around the tool develop -- tools development that we've done the training that we've done our people development process I really don't see any constraints in our ability to continue to grow.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just starting on NuScale.
Can you just talk a little bit about how you see the customer development playing out? I know you said you see the U.S.
market developing first.
But what kind of visibility do you have to who the first customers might be for that product? That's a long list.
Frankly I don't think I want to cover that here.
But there are many customers that have expressed interest in this technology.
Their trepidation was was this technology going to be around for them.
Most of them prefer this technology over others.
They're enamored with size capabilities of this particular small modular reactor and we expect to have several of those customers part of our program as we move into '12 and '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then over to Mike in terms of the cash and the buyback would you expect that buyback would only come from domestic cash? I know you'd talked about that in the context including that bond offering last quarter.
And if so and what would you plan to do with the cash that's outside the U.S.? That's a good question.
Initially it would be with domestic cash but we do have fairly aggressive program of bringing back dividends from outside the U.S.
and we'll continue to do that to repatriate the cash from outside the country as it makes sense.
Also the pace of our share buybacks throughout next year and subsequent years will also be a factor of how much cash flow we generate.
And as we generate more cash during the various periods of time we'll also look at using that to buy back shares.
We'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave if I sort of sit back here and just think about it in sort of beat the Oil &amp; Gas margin horse continually but 2011 I think of as like sort of the year of the FEED.
As you've said 2012 is going to be the year of procurement a.k.a.
CFM.
So is it really like 2013 beyond I'm not asking for guidance but when we start to see the fruits of your labor when we start to recognize some contingency flow [ph] back and profit recognition from successful completion of projects? I'll answer it this way.
It is -- I guess '11 I'm not sure I would categorize it as the year of FEED because we still have a fair amount of EPC flowing through the books of Energy &amp; Chemicals.
But from a FEED -- the number of FEEDs felt like kind of '06 '06-'07.
And I think what we're finding is these programs continue to get larger and these programs continue to have longer schedules than we've seen if you go back to the '06 kind of timeframe.
So I guess the way I would categorize it is we're going to continue to grow in that business quite dramatically but I think there's a longer tail to it than what we've seen maybe when you look at the '06-'07 kind of timeframe.
So I think the earnings streams will be longer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then for Mike I mean the tax guidance on '12 is there anything that would -- we need to see that would push you to the higher end? Because you got about 80% of the backlog on an international basis.
I think that we'd probably be more towards the lower end at 32% in '12.
It's really just going to depend on our mix quarter-to-quarter and we do have a lot of little items that will impact that plus or minus.
We had a couple of favorable items this quarter that drove us down that 30% tax rate.
But there's no particular thing to look at that will drive us from one of that range to the other.
We'll take our next question from Alex Rygiel from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Mike just expand on that last question.
As it relates to your EPS guidance next year is it simply a function of your tax assumption of 32% to 35% that creates the range? Alex no there's a lot of variables that create that range it's not just tax.
As we talked about there's some uncertainty in the global markets.
There's obviously variability which we move forward on various projects.
There's an awful lot of factors out there and it's still early on for us for 2012 guidance to have a precise number for the year.
So it's just a reflection of where we are in the process where we are in the calendar.
And there just could be a lot of moving parts in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And David your fixed price work as a percent of revenue in backlog has obviously been shrinking now for some time.
Can you directionally help us to understand where that may fall out over the next one to 2 years? Are you strategically moving away from fixed price work? Or is it really just a function of your mix? It's a function of the mix.
We expect to probably increase the lump sum fixed price component in the backlog but it's not like it's going to flip.
We may get back up to the 30% 35% range.
When you start looking at some of the Power programs that come in those are all lump sum.
Most of the infrastructure work that we do is fixed price.
In E&amp;C we've been successful in a couple of cases recently on smaller programs.
But we're growing that capability and are quite comfortable in a lump sum environment.
And I think as you look out over the next couple of years I don't think you're going to see dramatic swings in that mix.
We'll take our next question from Avi Fisher with BMO Capital Markets.
In the oil sands I heard you're talking about it before in the refining projects up there.
With the narrowing sweet-and-sour spreads I'm understanding that some of the big projects are going to be broken down into smaller phases.
I wondered if you could comment on that and how that would impact sort of your bookings and your contract pursuits there? It doesn't impact what our plans are at all.
As a matter of fact when you look at the oil sands projects the mining projects we're continuing to see those programs move forward.
I think there maybe some that will be questioned from the marginal -- some of the marginal players.
But clearly they've increased their production they got to put it somewhere.
And so the upgrading and refining work associated with that I think is only going to increase.
And I don't know if there was a question -- I didn't hear this earlier the NuScale investment are we going to have to see somewhere down the road a bigger capital investment for fabrication there or? Within NuScale there will be but it won't be funded by Fluor.
By partners that we bring in.
Got you.
And one last quick question.
I just saw a note on Bloomberg about some disruptions at the Conga project in Peru and I just wanted to get a sense is this part -- what's the expected burn rate on that project? And is disruption in mining projects part of the ebb and flow of mining projects? It's part of the ebb and flow of mining projects.
I can't think of a mining project that we've done in history or have planned that we don't expect some sort of unrest.
And it's just plowed into how we execute the project how we protect the assets and how we protect our people.
Unfortunately it's just business as usual.
And we'll take our final question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up as well on the mining side of it.
How much is left out there in terms of project opportunities? I mean you've had a pretty good role here and just giving the state a quality price and where we are.
I mean what do you see out there in terms of planning and expectations? Well I think when the commodity -- we watched that pretty closely and when there's a drop like we saw over the last couple of months we get a little nervous.
But the teams went back to validate with our customers what their plans were.
And in each case there were no change in their view of continuing to grow.
I think when you look at the growth patterns over the next say 2 decades there is significant need for additional capacity in just about every mineral you can think of including iron ore.
I think you'll see -- and that's why I think you're going to see some of these bigger programs continue to go because the bed is in the out years.
It's not based on the commodity necessarily the spot commodity markets.
In days gone by a lot of the mining projects would just absolutely stop.
We have not seen anything like that and I'm quite bullish as we go into next year and beyond that you're going to continue to see us book significant mining projects.
So with that operator I'd like to thank you for your help and thanks to all of the participants this afternoon this evening.
I think a couple of key takeaways that I want to leave you with are that our prospects and markets remain significantly strong.
We're actively engaged in positioning the company for future growth and I think there's great opportunity for that as we go through '12 and into '13.
In that regard we talked today about a few of our investments that we've made recently in technologies and I believe that contributes to that long-term view and the long-term success story that we're building here.
As we have mentioned during the call our focus will continue to be on growing net income and earnings per share with the midpoint of our guidance for 2012 equating to a year-over-year increase of 9% with investments included in that.
Our company is extremely strong.
Our backlog is at record level of cash it's at record level.
And the market fundamentals even though there's a little bit of nervousness from time to time I think bode really well of our continued earnings growth and continued shareholder value creation.
With that again I appreciate your interest in our company as well as your confidence in our future.
Everyone have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on February 28 at the following telephone number (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 4586932 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood Thank you very much operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's Fourth Quarter and 2011 Year-end Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Steuert Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed.
We have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks this afternoon.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information and there is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of those risk factors in our 10-K which was filed earlier today.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as well.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are also posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon to everyone and I appreciate you joining us here today.
Today we'll be reviewing our results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2011 and discussing our outlook for 2012.
If you'd turn -- now we'll turn to the financial results and ask you to turn to Slide 3.
I want to start by covering some of the highlights for the performance for 2011.
I'm pleased to report that Fluor had delivered -- has delivered another year of strong new awards double-digit backlog growth and earnings per share at the top end of our expectation for 2011.
Net earnings for 2011 were $594 million or $3.40 a diluted share which compares to last year's $357 million or $1.98.
Consolidated segment profit for the year was just over $1 billion which compares with $621 million for 2010.
As you know last year's segment profit was impacted by the significant pretax charges on 2 infrastructure projects as well as the power project.
Our results for 2011 reflect a substantial increase in the profit contribution from Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment along with very solid performance from all the other 4 business segments.
Consolidated revenue for the year totaled a record $23.4 billion which was up 12% over last year mainly due to strong growth in the mining &amp; metals business line.
We also had another strong year for new awards at $26.9 billion reflecting substantial mining &amp; metals volume as well as sizable orders within the Oil &amp; Gas segment.
Consolidated backlog rose to a new year ending high of $39.5 billion which represents a 13% increase from a year ago.
Our full year cash flow generation from operations was significant which enabled the company to return cash to our shareholders through the repurchase of over 10 million shares in Fluor.
I'm also pleased to report that the board recently approved a 28% increase in our quarterly dividend to a new rate of $0.16 per share.
If you'll turn to Slide 4 I want to comment on the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $153 million or $0.90 per diluted share.
This favorable result was mainly driven by a marked improvement in segment profit which rose to $279 million in the quarter again driven primarily by strong performance in our Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment.
Net earnings for the quarter also benefited from a lower tax rate which reflected the favorable resolution of various tax issues and audits.
Revenue for the quarter was $6.3 billion which was 19% higher than last year and again mainly due to the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure group.
Fourth quarter new awards were $4.3 billion including awards of $2.5 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $947 million in Power and $504 million within the I&amp;I segment.
While our new award numbers for the quarter is somewhat below levels experienced over the last 6 quarters Id remind everyone of our regular commentary on the inherent lumpiness of quarterly new awards.
We expect new awards in the first quarter of 2012 to strengthen.
If you turn to Slide 5 I'd like to take a moment and address the Greater Gabbard Wind Farm Project.
Despite additional weather delays in the quarter we continued to make good progress and the project's now 97% complete.
We've nearly done everything but the burial of some of the remaining inter-array cables and the completion of the installation of the second half of the third main export cable.
At this point all 140 monopiles transition pieces wind turbine generator sets are installed and many of the units are generating power for the customer.
We have just one set of wind turbine blades left to install and we should complete that task within next week.
We have completed the installation of the first half of the last export cable as I mentioned and expect to be underwater laying the second half of this within days.
This had been a tough project but I feel good about where we stand.
While we took a small charge in the fourth quarter as we refined the estimates to complete the remaining tasks we still expect to complete the project in the first half of 2012.
Turning to Slide 6.
The Oil &amp; Gas segment had new awards of $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter including $1.5 billion project for Syncrude Canada Ltd.
to provide project management services for the Mildred Lake project in Fort McMurray.
The quarter also included incremental scope on ExxonMobil's West Qurna a development project in Iraq and the Oil &amp; Gas backlog rose 6% from a year ago to end 2011 at $15.1 billion.
We continue to work on numerous front-end programs in Oil &amp; Gas and expect that number -- a number of those projects will proceed to full EPC over the next 12 to 18 months.
Our scope will obviously vary depending on clients contracting approach but we feel very good about this segment and the continued level of FEED activity.
Now the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment posted fourth quarter new awards of $504 million including incremental releases on mining projects in Africa Australia South America the United States and Canada quite diverse if I say so.
The group also posted awards in our manufacturing and bio technology group which included a biofuels demonstration plant.
The mining &amp; metals group business line also continues to work on a number of FEED contracts and the commodity markets support ongoing capital expansion.
We expect 2012 to be another busy year for the mining &amp; metals business line especially as we get into the second half of the year.
Ending backlog for our Industrial &amp; Infrastructure group rose to a segment record of $19.6 billion representing a 16% increase over 2010.
Moving to the government segment.
The government bookings for the fourth quarter were modest since the timing of releases of the LOGCAP IV task orders was a little out of sync with our quarterly reporting schedule.
Despite recent indications from Washington that it's considering altering our -- the U.S.'s mission in Afghanistan by the end of 2013 we don't expect to see any material change in our scope throughout 2012 and 2013.
Ending backlog for government was $1.1 billion compared to $751 million a year ago.
Our Global Services operations and maintenance business booked $140 million in new maintenance contracts and renewal of existing contracts.
We expect that when the economic picture improves it will have a positive effect on these markets and the release of major maintenance capital funding of clients.
We look for improvement for Global Services as we go out through 2012 and beyond.
The ending backlog for this group was $1.9 billion.
The Power segment had strong fourth quarter bookings its best quarter in over 4 years with awards totaling just under $1 billion at $947 million.
The fourth quarter included an award from the Lower Colorado River Authority to build a 540-megawatt gas-fired combined cycle power plant in Texas.
And the quarter also included awards from Arlington Valley Solar Energy a member of the LS Power Group for the engineering procurement and construction for its new 125-megawatt solar photovoltaic facility located in Maricopa County Arizona.
As evidenced by their success in the last 2 quarters our Power group's prospect list is improving and will continue to do so.
The new pollution control guidelines currently under court stay should also create significant additional opportunities as we get into 2012 and beyond.
Power segment backlog rose to $1.8 billion reflecting the strong new awards in the second half of the year.
With regards to the outlook for our large -- larger markets we have a robust prospect list in I&amp;I particularly in mining and in Oil &amp; Gas.
Our mining clients continue to invest in major new developments as well as expansion programs and there are some really sizable infrastructure projects that could move ahead in the latter part of this year.
In Oil &amp; Gas we've seen some large prospects delayed during 2011 but we expect 2012 new award levels to improve.
Regionally the Oil &amp; Gas group's opportunities -- opportunity is broad including prospects around the globe: Australia Canada Middle East Kazakhstan Asia Mexico South America  I mean it's really broad and diverse from a geographic perspective.
In summary we feel really good about our results in 2011 and the breadth of our market opportunities give us encouragement as we look to 2012 and beyond.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Mike Steuert and ask him to review some of the details of our operating performance and the corporate financial metrics as well as our financial outlook for 2012.
So Mike I'll pass it to you.
All right.
Thank you David and good afternoon.
The detailed results for each operating segment can be found in our earnings release and in our 10-K which we just filed this afternoon.
Please turn to Slide 6 of the presentation.
As David mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog increased year-over-year to $39.5 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog was 15% at year-end with 78% of the total backlog for projects located outside of the United States.
We continue to experience robust international markets with the year at 84% of new awards coming outside the U.S.
with a concentration in Australia the Middle East Latin America and Canada.
Moving on to corporate items as shown on Slide 7.
G&amp;A expense for the year was $163 million which compares with $156 million a year ago.
The effective tax rate for the year was 30% and as David mentioned our tax rate benefited from several items in the fourth quarter including the favorable resolution of various disputes and audits.
Shifting on to the balance sheet.
Our consolidated cash and marketable securities balance totaled $2.8 billion at year-end up from $2.6 billion a year ago.
During 2011 the company generated $890 million in cash flow from operating activities and repurchased $640 million worth of Fluor shares.
We also paid out $88 million in dividends and as David mentioned the Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend from $0.125 per share to $0.16 per share beginning in the first quarter.
In addition the company took advantage of the attractive markets and completed a $500 million offering of 10-year unsecured notes to enhance our cash balances in the United States.
Capital expenditures for the year were $338 million which compares to $265 million a year ago.
This increase was driven by our AMECO business line which purchases construction equipment to support both Fluor and third-party customers.
In summary Fluor's financial position continues to remain extremely strong.
Finally let me conclude by commenting on our guidance for 2012 which is shown on Slide 8.
We believe we are well-positioned within our diversified markets to enable the company to continue to grow.
But at this time we are mindful of the continued economic uncertainty at this early stage of the year.
With a solid backlog and a promising prospect list we are maintaining our 2012 earnings per share guidance in the range of $3.40 to $3.80 per share.
As previously indicated this range includes an estimated impact of approximately $0.20 per share for the ongoing funding of R&amp;D expenses in the NuScale Power activities.
Our 2012 EPS guidance assumes G&amp;A expense in the range of $160 million to $180 million capital expenditures of approximately $300 million and effective tax rate of 32% to 35%.
With that operator we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David as you scoured the globe looking at your prospect list could you maybe talk a little bit about maybe you can break it down into Oil &amp; Gas and I&amp;I the competitive landscape of the certain areas of the world or certain end markets that are more competitive as the competitive aspect eased a bit? And do you anticipate that as more FEED coming to EPC that could help potential booking margins as we move into 2013? Well I think the competition is still pretty keen in most parts around the world.
I think the real positive aspects that I see is that beginning wave of FEED work and that's usually based on a value proposition not necessarily on low price.
So I'm encouraged with the opportunities that are in front of us.
And as you know we like to do a very good job on those front ends and help them kind of go into EPC and I think that same practice is available to us.
I'm seeing -- if you kind of walk around the globe the mining group is still looking at their projections of commodity needs out into '13 '14 '15 which says that these capital programs need to be pretty active right now in order to accommodate that.
So we've seen some pauses but we haven't seen any real dramatic change in the growth opportunities for us in mining.
Within Oil &amp; Gas those are really the 2 that you want to talk about.
We can talk about the others as well but in Oil &amp; Gas it's pretty diverse to be honest with you.
We're seeing a lot of upstream projects that are going into the EPC phase.
We feel really good about the growth opportunities during '12 in that particular segment.
But we're also seeing the return of the refining projects and in fact there's 3 specific projects that we're pursuing very very keenly.
And we feel pretty good about winning the front ends on those.
And I would say that even though it's very competitive it's not as competitive as it was say a year ago.
But it's also not as attractive from a margin percentage perspective as maybe it was in the '08 '09 kind of time frame.
So it's good profit dollars for us and we feel very good in that market.
Also I think we're working on several front-end projects in the petrochemical market.
And again it's good to see both refining and petrochemicals kind of starting to resurge if you will.
Research Division</strong> Excellent comments David.
My follow-up question is regard to there's been a lot of interest in activity or thought process about the United States and the opportunities in energy given where natural gas feedstocks are.
Can you talk about how Fluor is looking at that market? And also you mentioned Power had a very good year.
Do you see some more plant betterment opportunities second half of the year as opposed to the first half? Yes I'll hit the Power group first and then I'll go back.
Yes we see the second half of the year because they've come up with different tweaks and changes to some of the compliance types of projects so there's a little bit of re-studying that's being done and we're participating in a fair amount of that.
But once the legal challenges are behind us I do see that the environmental compliance programs are really starting to provide benefit to us.
And as you say it will be kind of back-end loaded but I think it really bodes well for earnings streams when we get into '13 and beyond.
With regard to the U.S.
just capital markets in general I attend several kind of industry groups and forum -- leadership forums around and I think the overreaching attitude is one that the U.S.
is going to remain flat and 2012 is going to look like -- a lot like 2011 and I think I agree with that.
However I think that there's a lot of bright spot when you think of gas pricing right now and the benefits that that provides for the chemical and petrochemical markets as well as the fine chemical markets.
We're already very active in a couple of instances in scoping efforts and real conceptual studies but gas pricing at the levels it is right now makes it competitive with the products that are being produced in the Middle East.
You've got a lot of petrochemical and fine chemical assets in the United States that have been starved for capital for some time and that's right up our alley.
I mean I feel very good about our position in that market and delivering what the customer wants at a very cost-effective -- in a very cost-effective manner.
Our next question is from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions on margins.
One David on the I&amp;I side the margins you had this quarter again were fairly good I'm assuming driven by mining.
Can you talk structurally if this is sort of the 4.5% range? Is that how we should be thinking about the I&amp;I margins going forward? And also I guess I'm just trying to think about profit dollar growth as we get into later stages of the mining projects.
And then my second question relates to Oil &amp; Gas margins.
I mean how much of the margin is improving? Is it a function of just burning more revenue to better utilize your people versus just booking higher-margin stuff in the business? Because I guess I just -- I look at your backlog today it's sitting at $15 billion.
It's higher than where we were in '06 and into '07.
We had much better margins and I'm assuming what you're going to say about 2012.
So I'm just trying to think about what you view is a major catalyst of driving those margins forward? And to your more bullish comments on refining and petrochem does that change the longer-term margin mix I guess more favorably? Jamie let me -- I want to answer it in general and then I'll talk specifically about mining and then Oil &amp; Gas.
If you look at our mining group and you think about the Oil &amp; Gas group and mining today Oil &amp; Gas maybe in the '08 '09 time frame.
You had a pretty significant suite of projects that were in differing phases of execution.
So the earnings streams weren't dependent on one project in the normal curve of heavy engineering content in the beginning and a lower content of construction hours in the back end.
So what you've got is you've got a better balance within mining than we've seen in the past which I think supports margin that's consistent with what you're seeing right now.
I don't see it improving dramatically but I also don't see that the typical drop-off of just having one big mining project like we had if you go back in history a decade.
So that kind of is the underpinning I guess what I would say to pretty solid earnings within that segment.
Within Oil &amp; Gas the same dynamic I think is reemerging where we're seeing a lot more activity in FEED work we see a lot more projects moving into EPC which provides us that leverage that does provide for margin improvement within Oil &amp; Gas.
So I think that what we're seeing is just we're coming through that cycle.
And I see improvement as we go through '12 and into '13.
There's some big projects out there that we feel really comfortable about that are going to start to churn as we get into 2012.
Research Division</strong> And then David last quarter you did talk about the ability for you in total to grow backlog in I think in 2012 relative to 2011.
Is that still your -- is that still how we should be thinking about things and are the Oil &amp; Gas awards more second half-weighted versus first? I think what I said before was that again the lumpiness word that quarter-over-quarter we may see some drop in backlog but by and large it's improving I think the quality of earnings in backlog.
So we are seeing improvement in that.
I do believe that durring 2012 we'll see growth in our backlog.
But as you see the mix you're going to see probably more front end which on a per dollar -- per hour basis is pretty attractive bottom line margin but it doesn't drive the EPC values in backlog.
At the same time you're going to see a ramp up in the revenue burn from the mining sector.
So all in all we'll see some marginal increase but I think what you're going to see is an improvement in the quality of the margin in the backlog.
We'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> It's Alan Fleming standing in for Andy this evening.
I wanted to ask you a little bit about the government revenue.
I think you've talked about most of the other segments relatively in depth.
But the government revenue seems to be bouncing around in the kind of the $800 million to $900 million range.
Wondering if you could just give us some color and how we should think about modeling this business specifically has Portsmouth kind of fully ramped up? And how should we think about that going into 2012? Well let me give you a long answer.
It's a book-to-burn.
I mean it's a quick book-to-burn-type business.
So backlog in government is somewhat meaningless in comparison to say mining Oil &amp; Gas Power any of the other groups.
So the fact that it bounces around really doesn't concern us.
It's what's kind of in that -- those task order releases and the like and the renewals like for Savannah River and the like.
We've got a good strong earnings stream there and when you think about the budgeting process that's going on we don't -- we really don't anticipate any significant change in the number of people working in Afghanistan on LOGCAP or anything else in the near term.
In fact if you look at Iraq as a model people like us increased our headcount in earnings during the period after somebody set a date for departure.
So we really don't see any change in the base earnings of government throughout 2012 and '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I could follow up on 2 specific projects in I&amp;I.
First is Greater Gabbard seems like some better news this quarter on the project 97% done.
Is it safe to say you're kind of through the woods on that project? And then on the new Minas Conga Project can you give us an update there? Are you guys -- any updated thoughts on when you could potentially resume work? Sure.
On Greater Gabbard we're almost done and as I said we've only got one set of blades left to set which really completes the use of some of the real heavy expensive marine assets so that really makes us feel confident.
And as I said in my earlier remarks we should be done within weeks.
With regard to the export cable it's actually the third export cable which is required if they're absolutely turning in 100% in a high wind circumstance.
We've got the second half of the third one yet to do.
And again that's with -- they're on the water hopefully within this week based on weather.
The only issue with the blade is wind is the limiting factor because obviously those blades are built to pick up wind and it gets kind of interesting when you're trying to hang those things in high wind.
But I feel like we're getting close to the end.
A major expense from a capital cost perspective is behind us.
We feel very positive about the quality of the work that we've performed and we're pleased that our customer is enjoying the benefit of the power we're producing and fulfilling our obligations under that contract.
So I feel really good about where we fit where we see ourselves on Gabbard and it's in line with what we've been signaling and talking about for probably the last 4 quarters.
With regard to Conga obviously there's some labor unrest.
We kind of had to take a breath and help the customer with the resubmittal of some of their permits that is ongoing.
And we feel that sometime during the middle of the year we'll be back engaged assuming that the permitting process goes as is currently planned.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions.
Number 1 we've seen DOE gets funding for helping out with the R&amp;D expenses for SMRs.
So I would love to get an update from you on where you stand in terms of NuScale potentially getting some funding there and what the time frame could be if it is successful in terms of you folks getting some of that money.
That's question #1.
And then question #2 if you look from the brief glance I've had through your 10-K you did mention a breakdown for us.
Some of the benefits you had in I&amp;I from second wind et cetera but that's for the full year.
Could you talk about whether there was anything specific in the fourth quarter that we should count on or whether this was normal growth of the business? I'll take the first and then I'll ask Mike to take the second half of that question.
With regard to the DOE and the FOA that we're going after we're encouraged by what appears to be an acceleration by the government to get this funding in place for the technologies that are seen to be the most feasible.
We feel very confident in being a participant in that.
And we're encouraged again by what the DOE is trying to do.
Now whether that translates into action is yet to be seen but we feel confident that we'll know something sometime during this year.
And we believe that we'll be part of the process and part of the R&amp;D of the next wave of technologies.
So Mike I'll let you answer the other question.
Right.
In terms of the fourth quarter there really wasn't anything worth noting that was specific or that you can really point to in terms of special items within I&amp;I.
It was just another good quarter and some more solid margins in the quarter.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on NuScale.
Can you just give us an update on where you stand with trying to sell down your stake in that? Well I think what we're trying to do is focus on the technology development to support the application process.
We're not eager to sell our position down unless someone's eager to come in at the level that we expect from a return perspective.
We feel very comfortable with where we are right now and we're focused on FOA and design certification activities.
Research Division</strong> Okay because I thought you were targeting say midyear to try and take that stake down a little bit.
And I noticed that the impact is $0.20 rather than a range so I didn't know if you're just taking the midpoint or if you think the top end isn't likely anymore.
We looked at the budgeting process and kind of what we think it'll take to get the FOA and that's kind of how we got to a specific number.
We thought that by giving a range we kind of didn't give you what you wanted so we decided to dig a little deeper and that's what we think it'll cost to get to the next phase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that Q1 awards are expected to strengthen.
Can you just elaborate on what segments are driving that? And is it based on what you've already booked? Some of what's happened over the last 4 weeks -- but I think there's a fair amount of positive projects that have moved quarter-over-quarter that are at the point where they will be released by the customer a couple on them ones that we know we already have but there's political situations that are driving the delay in the announcement.
But we do feel good about first quarter new awards.
Research Division</strong> Any particular segment commentary related to that? I think Oil &amp; Gas is clearly one of those areas.
.
We'll take our next question from Scott Levine with J.P.
Morgan.
Research Division</strong> So can I ask about the U.S.? We've seen the Power business strengthen here in the last couple of quarters with awards a bit and I think you highlighted potential for some large infrastructure projects not sure if you said where.
But we have seen data improve a little bit here recently folks getting more optimistic on the Highway Bill.
Are you feeling a little bit better about the U.S.
potentially or not really and with things -- with an election year that we're not likely to see much improvement? I fall down on both sides of that discussion.
I mean I want to be optimistic and there are certainly signs that things are improving.
But with an election year it's not too hard to be pessimistic as well.
We do see a lot of front-end study work going on.
We do see some procurements in the infrastructure space beginning to gain momentum.
I think with regard to infrastructure I would suggest that that's more of a back end of the year kind of prospect.
And I'm cautiously optimistic that the U.S.
is going to get their act together.
I mean look at Power as an example they're just finally getting to the point where permits are being released.
But in some cases there's renewable energy projects that make absolute sense and fit the rhetoric of the United States and then you end up with lawsuits around property rights.
So there's a schizophrenic situation going on relative to some of the aspects of Power right now.
But I am guardedly optimistic about the U.S.
And as I've said in previous if the U.S.
starts spending at all it's upside for us.
So I'm really hopeful that we've got better news from a resurgence in capital spend in the United States.
Research Division</strong> And maybe as a follow-on and related as well I mean do you see the improvement that you've seen the last couple of quarters here in Power to be sustainable? And does that bode well for growth prospects in '13? I think you said last quarter that Power's in February [ph] expected to have revenue decline in '12? I think we're going to see some lumpiness in Power because of some of the things that move quarter-to-quarter.
My belief is that before we really start to see growth in Power it's more of a end of this year early next year which obviously bodes well for us from an earnings perspective as we go into '13 and '14.
So again the diversity of our market and geography focus really helps us moderate cycles over the total business.
Our next question comes from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my first question is really around your commentary on backlog staying flat.
It sounds like if I were to summarize the FEED activity is going to be strong this year but you are increasing your burn rate on the mining side.
So perhaps David you can comment on your confidence on that backlog level staying flat based on what you're seeing on your pipeline today.
I'm very confident it will stay flat and grow.
I mean I think you're going to see increase as we get into the back end of the year.
There's some significant projects where the decisions are in the third and fourth quarter.
Now I'd caution that just like any other year you can find things in the fourth quarter that because of an approval here or a change there it pushes into the next year.
But I see us growing backlog marginally.
But again I think you're going to see an improvement in the quality of the earnings coming from that backlog as we go towards the last half of this year and into '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful commentary.
And just a clarification for the projects that you think could hit potentially in the second half of the year.
Are you guys already working on those projects in either a feasibility standpoint or on FEED work for those projects? Some of them yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess one last question.
One of your competitors had a recent acquisition announcement earlier this week.
Has your view on M&amp;A changed at all? Your cash balances are still -- you still remain very strong.
Just love to hear your updated thoughts there.
That's an interesting question.
Our focus on acquisition hasn't changed.
It's niche in nature and it's one where it fills a hole or improves a skill set.
If you're talking about the URS acquisition I think that Halliburton and KBR are in a better position to answer the question of that particular acquisition.
We're an engineer procure construct and maintenance company we're going to maintain that focus and grow in those capital markets.
And if acquisition gives us an entry to a market within that scope or gives us a different trajectory on skill set then we'll look at it.
One of the issues that we've mentioned in previous discussions is because of our diversity and size it has to be niche in nature because some of the bigger ones it might fit a niche that we need but there may be redundancy.
And I'm not interested in paying $1 for $0.80 of value if you know what I mean because being able to sell off pieces and parts of a service company are very difficult.
So I think you'll see us be very prudent.
We're going to look at smaller niche acquisitions again that help us move into some regions where we're not as big and as capable as we want to be or where it strengthens a technology offering or a market.
Our next question comes from Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> On the Conga project I'm just curious whether or not that had any impact on your guidance if it was a negative offset so maybe something that got better.
But given that you booked it in Q3 and now you're not expecting maybe to ramp up until back half did that in any way impact the guidance at all? Mike you want to cover that? My quick answer is not really.
That's exactly right David.
It really didn't impact our guidance.
But there are so many pluses and minuses in a quarter and that were just one of them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the guidance is there any guidance you can give us within that guidance on what level of buyback we should be assuming as part of that guidance? You want guidance within guidance? Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
No sorry.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
It sounds like you're -- or maybe I'm misreading this but a little more confident on the mining margin or I&amp;I margin going forward as opposed to it maybe trending down a little bit and maybe holding these levels.
Is there something that's giving you more confidence in what that margin can look like through maybe 2013 at this point? Well as I said I think it's the mix of projects and the layering effect of having multiple programs going on at the same time which I believe kind of provides a little more stability longer term.
So I mean whether it's up or down a little bit I feel pretty good about kind of where we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
I was just wondering if something had changed from last quarter.
And then lastly on the services business.
And I guess the commercial and industrial data seems pretty positive and I'm just wondering still running well below peak levels and understandably so but what the trajectory could look like in that business over the next year or 2 in the sense you're getting from your end markets right now? Well as I said I think we're seeing the large capital maintenance budgets being funded and in some cases they're getting pretty large.
It could end up being mid-cap projects which again is something that we do quite well.
But I see that market improving and that will be I believe the first part of the improvement in the United States.
But I think our maintenance organization has done a really good job of shifting overseas and working very favorably in places like Qatar the Philippines.
So they've been able to grow outside of the United States and not be as dependent on that major shutdown turnaround kinds of scopes.
And at the same time they refocused on facility maintenance which has more of a stable earnings flow over a longer period of time.
So I think they really did a good job of kind of changing their model to meet the market without giving up that muscle that you need to do those major maintenance capital programs and shutdown turnarounds.
So I think you're going to see improvement in that market as we get into the back end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you'll give me one last short one on West Qurna.
Do you think the pace of awards can now stay maybe at a healthier level through 2012? Or do you think it will still be lumpy quarter-to-quarter? I think it's going be real lumpy.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a little bit to my path [ph] just to get a sense on I&amp;I awards.
Am I correct just to think about the pace of awards? As sort of you talked about the pause in mining awards.
So does that mean that in absolute terms mining and I&amp;I awards have sort of peaked and we're just going to hit the steady rate for a while? Is that the right way of looking at it? I'm not sure I would categorize it as peaked.
I mean there's some very large programs out there that we're pursuing and in fact are already active on that as I said will have some significant impact from a new award perspective on the back half of the year assuming that the projects continue and assuming that there's no upset relative to permitting or some of the issues we saw on Conga.
I think those guys in our mining group have done a really good job of diversifying orebody and geography where they work.
And I see -- I'm encouraged to see that that's probably a more sustainable business over the next few years than the typical mining cycles that we saw maybe a decade ago.
Research Division</strong> But I guess I'm just trying to understand your comments when you sort of said something about a pause and I'm just trying to understand the context of that pause.
I was specifically speaking about Conga not the whole market.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow up in terms of your capital redeployment the buyback in the quarter was not a lot.
How are you guys thinking about the buyback in particular as the stock price is finally going up? Mike I'll ask you to answer that.
Yes Andrew it is partially stock-price-driven.
It's also driven by our free cash flow generation.
And as we continue to generate free cash flow I think it's reasonable to expect we'll have a modest buyback program throughout this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if the stock price keeps going up obviously it sounds like it will be -- you will slow it down? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One going back to Power on the margin side.
I mean clearly Q4 margins were adversely impacted by lower revenues and higher fixed cost absorption.
How should we then look at the margin trajectory as we move into 2012? Clearly the backlog has grown but should we kind of view this as a low watermark for margins in Q4 and maybe towards the second half of the year in '12 be able to get back up to this double-digit levels? I don't know if I would signal back up to double-digit levels in the near term.
I think that we'll see improvement as we get towards the back end of the year and we get into the projects that we've just been awarded.
But more importantly we're confident that we're going to win a little bit more and that market will change a little bit as as I said we get towards the last half of the year.
I think the margin improvement is going to move more towards '13 than '12.
Is it a low watermark? I wouldn't comment.
But I'd caution that when you look at the Power numbers the way we're reporting them that will contain the NuScale expense.
So you've got ongoing operations in Power but you also have NuScale report -- our piece of NuScale reporting through that segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And somebody here asked the question about the DOE funding program for the R&amp;D for SMRs.
If you do receive funding from that will that be an offset to your R&amp;D spend now? Or how will that be in terms of reported as a line item? It won't impact our funding for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question I have David what kind of opportunities do you see in government as it relates to Internet today? Clearly the budget is up in 2012 in terms of rebids and new bids I mean Y-12 and Pantex we know was out in terms of being rebid but what other opportunities do you see in the market? Well I think there's obviously that.
There's the potential renewal or rebid of Savannah River in the near term.
We're still growing at Portsmouth.
So in the DOE world and the NNSA world the mission's obviously changing and I think that we're well positioned to be a participant in that.
And the support frankly that will take place relative to the new technologies and how they're deployed approved deployed around the globe.
I think I mentioned the DOD business.
It's obviously solid as I said through this year next year and there's a fair amount of base operating support contracts that are being bid.
And as you saw Jacksonville is under protest.
We feel good that the protest will go to our favor.
So there's a fair amount of a shift into the base operating support mission around the DOE and I think you'll see the military deploy in some different locations.
And we're positioned to be a good supplier to the military.
So I think it's a good solid business that will continue to have marginal growth as we go over the next few years.
Our next question comes from Avi Fisher with BMO Capital Markets.
On the Power side your backlog is up to about 100% year-over-year.
Could you talk a little bit about the revenue burn on that backlog? I presume revenue is not going to be up 100% next year.
No.
These are the beginning stages of the projects.
I mean it will obviously ramp up as we go through 2012 but it won't be 100%.
Yes.
Are these 2 to 3-year programs typically? These are probably nominally 24-to 30-month kind of programs.
And I'm wondering.
Generally if you could expand on some of the things you've talked about already which is in the U.S.
can you talk a little bit about the size of the opportunity and quantify it for the petro -- the U.S.
petrochemical spend and the U.S.
emission spend? Well I mean the emission spend I think is going to be significant once the rules are known and the rules don't change.
So it'd be hard to size that market until the regulations are known.
But it's significant and that's as far as I'd really like to go there.
And when does it start to get significant? Do we have to wait for the regulations to really be finalized? Yes I mean you've got -- I mean if you're a power company you're trying to figure out what are the rules of the game.
They're ready willing and able to deal with.
If you look at the coal plant situation relative to those emissions guides they're ready to fix close or sell.
I mean they know what they've got to do but they're leery of committing that capital with the belief that things have changed so much over the last 2 to 3 years.
Let's wait until it's solid then we'll pull the trigger.
So I think in that case there's going to be a lot of preparation work done and studies done which as I said we're participating in.
But as far as pulling that trigger on what that's going to be I think we're going to have to wait on regulations.
On kind of the petrochemical side I would lead you to comments that have been made by Dow whereas 5 years ago they've made the comment that they were going to basically cease manufacturing in the United States to where now they're looking at maybe 1 or 2 ethylene crackers which depending on the size of cracker and kind of what else goes with it could be $1 billion program.
And we're in that market and are active as we speak with some of the customers that are looking at significant spend in that petrochemical space in the United States.
One quick final question.
Your guidance for G&amp;A is down $10 million.
It's not a huge number but are you deferring any spending plans at all? Or is there any programs that you're deferring? Or it's just...
No it's really just cost reduction efforts.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just a clarification of an earlier question.
My understanding was that the guidance did not include any share buyback.
I don't know if that was clear before.
Mike has that changed the buyback content in the guidance that you've given? No it hasn't.
We normally don't include any significant amount of share buyback in the guidance.
And like I said we'll probably look at that but not this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And David for you just I guess the LNG market has been a pretty active market clearly a lot of capital being -- headed in that direction.
I guess I just want to hear your assessment of Fluor's position in that market.
How would you rate yourself in terms of ability capabilities and market share? And do you think on a go-forward basis investors should expect more activity from you even though you clearly have had some activity there? Do you expect that to be kind of up down or about the same as we look forward? I think directionally it's going to be up.
I mean we have -- I mean there's other companies that have done much better in that market than we have and we're taking actions to improve our position.
We know we got the skill sets.
It's a matter of making sure we got the right partnership structures with companies in order to have that value proposition accepted by our customers.
But I do see us improving our position as we go through '12 and we're aggressively going after a couple of projects in that market.
Research Division</strong> That's really your go-to-market strategy that's your key focus point here.
It's not like you need to maybe partner with anybody else to go to market.
You just feel like the way you it your internal execution is really the focus point for you right now? That's part of it but I'd like to think that partnering is something that helps us project ourselves better around the globe in certain places.
I mean when you think about the cryogenic side of that particular market there are others that are better at it than us and we're going to align with those folks to take advantage of that market.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Just taking a step back I mean you've answered a couple of questions on the margin.
Power looks like you're being held back a little bit by the NuScale investment as you had said before.
I&amp;I could be flattish.
Oil &amp; Gas you showed some positive expansion there.
But overall in 2012 when you roll things up do you expect that you'll see margin expansion in '12? I think that now you're also asking for guidance within the guidance.
I think that we're going to see some improvement in our delivery but I think the question's going to be is the significant amount of CFM that flows on things like mining and things like Kearl that from a margin percentage standpoint will depress margin percentage but in fact real dollar improvement is what we're focused on and I think we'll see some of that as we go through '12.
Yes.
And just back on Greater Gabbard.
So it's -- you're nearing completion but I think there has been some noise made about I guess issues with the transition pieces.
Just where do things stand as far as kind of the legal standpoint of I guess them saying that I guess Fluor is responsible for some of the costs associated with issues with the transition pieces? We're extremely confident in our position relative to the technical aspects of the whole situation.
I find it interesting in some of the findings that are coming up and the fact that when the experts go and look at these particular things they come up with an opinion that's 180 degrees different than our customer's opinion.
So it's going to -- we're going to finish the job.
They're going to enjoy power from that -- those facilities.
They're going to operate like they were designed and they're going to produce the power that's expected and they're going to operate over the life that is expected.
So I think the unfortunate piece in this is that we're going to have to wait for a legal proceeding to determine the end facts.
But from a technical perspective and from whether these things work as designed we're very confident.
We'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just David one more question relative to the margins.
And I realize it depends on the project type and the mix but if you look at on a same project basis as best you can is pricing getting better? I just -- I feel like the market is very competitive across the board but we're doing quite well in that competition.
I believe that the margin dollars that we're garnering fit within our norms and I feel good about growing profitably over the next several years.
The markets are there our execution platform is as strong as it's ever been we're focused on efficiency and cost and I think we're going to be much more competitive as we go through the next few years without jeopardizing the margin dollar production.
So I feel like we've kind of turned a corner in a couple of different ways that are going to improve our position as we go through '12 and '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one other question and maybe I don't know for Mike.
And it's very early but there's some tax proposals out today and some mention of increased rates on foreign-generated income.
Have you thought about that? Any implications there? I look at that like I look at the permitting process for Power.
It's interesting the rhetoric you hear but you hear a lot of talk and not a lot of action.
So we're kind of going to run our business the way we run our business and we'll deal with the outcome of laws that are passed and changes in that.
I mean the rhetoric with today was yes they're going to have a tax income overseas but they're going to lower the corporate rate.
Well I'll wait and see that too.
Our next question comes from Min Tang-Varner from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious because this year finally your I&amp;I business is actually overtaking your Oil &amp; Gas business being the biggest segment contributing to your earnings.
So I'm curious inside the I&amp;I business how much is actually mining contributing versus other infrastructure projects and whether the changing in composition between mining versus other projects is actually having some longer-term I know you're annoyed about this margin impact on the segment? I'm not annoyed.
I just had a great time with Jamie and the others talking about margin and guidance within the guidance.
Within I&amp;I the only segment -- the only piece of that that I think is maybe not clicking on all cylinders is the Manufacturing and Life Sciences piece but that's primarily because for the lack of capital spend in places like the U.S.
Ireland Puerto Rico Singapore in that particular market which is a historic market for us.
So when that market does return I think that will also provide a good growth potential for us.
mining is obviously probably -- it is the largest piece of I&amp;I but it doesn't overshadow our infrastructure business.
There are several large projects that are ongoing and we always talk about the Greater Gabbard project but there's a very positive infrastructure project with the San Francisco Bay Bridge the light rail in Denver.
There's a lot of programs that are going very well in that market that provide great earnings streams for us.
So mining is larger but I wouldn't say demonstratively so.
Relative to your comment about eclipsing Oil &amp; Gas you can imagine the healthy competition that takes place within our company because of that reality.
And I see our Oil &amp; Gas guys chomping at the bit to regain their position which I hope both continue to grow dramatically as we go through the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
But which actually leads to my second question.
I know that back in 2007 to 2009 your Oil &amp; Gas business were on fire and when oil prices declined and a lot of capital projects got shelved you actually did  see the business declined in the segment.
So I'm just curious when you commented that you're expecting the EPC contract will roll in within the next 12 to 18 months.
Are we expecting in the 2013 to '14 time frame you would actually regain that over $10 billion or $10 billion to $13 billion of the revenue line from the Oil &amp; Gas business? Or are we thinking more of a steady growth going forward? I think it's going to be a steady growth.
I mean if you'd look back to the time frame you're talking about we were very successful in the refining segment as an example.
There were 7 megaprojects in that particular market and we won 6 of them.
One ended up -- And only one of them ended up kind of being shelved after FEED and that was the Kuwait refinery.
So I think one of the issues -- one of the benefits of that period of time is you think about the earnings that we enjoyed during '08 and '09 and into '10 and we're not finished with some of those projects yet.
It enabled us to kind of weather the economic storm much better than most companies in our segment or in general which speaks to that diversity.
Now we've seen a significant uptick in mining which again keeps that trajectory headed to the north from an overall corporation perspective.
So I'm signaling that we're seeing improvements and a steady increase in our Oil &amp; Gas business.
But when they regain that revenue burn I really wouldn't say but it's going to be a steady growth as we go through this year and next year.
We'll take our last question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dropping the Oil &amp; Gas prospect list there's been some recent press reports that rather large upstream expansion projects that Fluor had been involved in on just the initial phases now starting to gather steam on their expansion phases especially within places like central Asia.
I was just wondering if you're seeing those same dynamics and if clients are coming back to the drawing boards on these expansions.
They absolutely are and we're helping some of them with their scoping efforts right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Oil &amp; Gas headcount also grew at a double-digit clip for the first time in about 3 years.
I was just wondering if it was more front-end or back-end loaded through the year and if the costs for these hirings were material and also how you see headcount progressing either at a faster or slower rate as you go through 2012 and '13.
There's no material cost impact relative to those employees and it's across the board.
I think we've really perfected that dispersed execution model to where you're seeing increases in Asia central Asia Australia to support that dispersed execution but providing some stability across the rest of the system North America Europe and otherwise.
So I think you're going to see a continued increase in headcount in that market that follows these projects as they're awarded.
But I'm really encouraged from 2 perspectives.
One the level of talent that we're able to attract and retain because of our tools systems and development processes; and I'm very comfortable about our ability to deploy these resources anywhere in the world.
So I think we've got a pretty good model about how we deploy our people.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just for housekeeping since this was the first quarter.
The debt's been on the book as -- you guys gave a consolidated interest expense/income but can you give a breakdown on what the expense was and what the income on the cash was during the quarter? We don't but you can -- expense is pretty straightforward at 3 3/8% at $500 million.
That's essentially our debt.
.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Seaton at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you operator and thanks to all of you for participating this afternoon.
Jamie I'm sure I'll hear from you later and I already apologize for using your name in the margin question.
But just to wrap up despite one of the worst economic landscapes we've seen in decades Fluor's continued to deliver very strong results during 2011.
We nearly matched 2010's record new award levels.
We grew backlog and delivered growth in both earnings and revenues.
We strengthened our balance sheet and re-returned cash to our shareholders.
I believe that Fluor is well positioned for growth in 2012 and beyond as those market conditions continue to strengthen.
Despite continued economic volatility the capital spending trends of our key customers remain strong and in fact growing in some cases.
As you may have heard Fluor celebrates its 100th anniversary this year.
And I want to thank you and everyone involved for the vital part you play in our success.
Not many companies can say that they're celebrating 100 years and we're very proud of our heritage but we're more focused on the next 100 years and continuing to grow our company and deliver earnings growth to our shareholders.
Our strategy to diversify as I said earlier in the comments both geographically and by end market began many years ago and we're reaping the benefits of that now.
Our international business is robust.
As I said it represents approximately 80% of our backlog and that is a testament to our diversity.
But as I also said the U.S.
is starting to see some positive signs and that's complete upside for us as we go through 2012.
We've built a century of achievement on the foundation of being an excellent provider to our customers.
And as expert builders we know how important a solid foundation is to allow us to continue to grow.
And I believe that our company is extremely strong and our future is extremely bright.
We greatly appreciate your interest and support of our company as well as the confidence that you have in Fluor.
I hope everyone has a great rest of their day and I look forward to speaking with each of you when the opportunity arises.
Have a good day.
.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 9 at the following telephone number (888) 203-1112 with a passcode of 4598372 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Steuert Fluor's Chief Financial Officer; and Biggs Porter who as you all know will be assuming the Chief Financial Officer role upon Mike's retirement.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information and there is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of those risk factors in the company's Form 10-K which was released on February 22 2012 and in our 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are also posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon to everyone and thanks for joining us.
Today we'd like to review our results for the first quarter and discuss the trends we're seeing for the remainder of this year.
But before I get started I want to acknowledge Mike Steuert's contribution during his 11 years with our company.
His presence on our leadership team has been a calm influence during some of the most economic -- turbulent economic times in probably in the last 50 years.
Mike's legacy will include leaving Fluor with a robust balance sheet strong cash reserves and an impeccable credit rate.
We appreciate all that Mike has done for us as Fluor's CFO and we wish him all the best in his retirement.
As Ken said Biggs Porter is also with us today.
Biggs was most recently the CFO of Tenet Healthcare and during his career has held senior management positions with Raytheon TXU and Northrop Grumman to name a few.
I believe Biggs has a deep of understanding of the demands of leading a global finance organization in today's uncertain marketplace and his diverse industry experience and leadership style will help the company continue to create shareholder value.
Biggs I wonder if you'd like to say a few words before we get too deep into the information.
Thanks David.
I'll be brief.
I'm very happy to be here and excited about being with the company.
It has such a great history and prospects.
David Mike and our controller Gary Smalley and the rest of the team did great work with me to get me up to full speed.
And of course I'm looking forward to meeting Fluor's analyst and shareholder community.
Thank you Biggs.
Now let's turn to our financial results and I want to start by covering some of the highlights of our first quarter performance and I ask you to please turn to Slide 3.
Net earnings for the quarter were $155 million or $0.91 per diluted share which compares with $140 million and $0.78 per diluted share a year ago.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was just over $253 million which compares to $249 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Consolidated revenues for the quarter were $6.3 billion an increase of 24% over the $5.1 billion reported a year ago.
Now I'm particularly pleased to report that the results for the quarter included double-digit growth in both revenue and profit for our Oil &amp; Gas segments Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment as well as our Global Services segment.
2012 new awards got off to a very strong start with $8.4 billion in contracts awarded during the first quarter.
Segment awards included $3.9 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $3.7 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
Our consolidated backlog rose to a new company record of $42.5 billion a 14% increase over a year ago.
And now please turn to Slide #4.
At $3.9 billion the Oil &amp; Gas segment had a very strong new awards production for the quarter including the TCO award in Kazakhstan an award for Reliance Industries in India Pemex in Mexico and incremental scopes on oil sands and offshore projects in Canada.
Ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas rose $1.7 billion over last quarter and 24% over a year ago to end the quarter at $16.8 billion.
During the quarter we announced an alliance agreement with Dow Chemical provide EPC and construction management support for their global capital projects program.
In addition BASF another key [ph] client expanded their existing partnership agreement with Fluor to include not only Asia and Europe but also North America.
I believe these agreements validate our leadership in the petrochemical industry and demonstrate the kind of partnerships that we have with many of our customers as they continue to expand globally as well as domestically.
We continue to work on numerous front-end programs in Oil &amp; Gas.
We feel very good about this continuing level of FEED activity as it represents a tremendous aggregate total installed cost and sizable EPC opportunities for Fluor.
The Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment also posted strong first quarter new awards at $3.7 billion including an iron ore project in Western Australia a copper mine expansion in Peru and 2 copper projects in the United States.
The Mining &amp; Metals business line is working on a number of feasibility and FEED contracts and commodity markets continues to support the substantial ongoing capital investments of our customers.
2012 is shaping up again to be another busy year.
Backlog for Industrial &amp; Infrastructure rose to $21.4 billion which is an 8% increase over last year.
With regard to infrastructure business line I want to provide you with a quick update on our Greater Gabbard project.
The project is essentially done all 140 wind turbine generators installed and energized and all cabling laid.
All cables are connected with the exception of one which is in process.
With mainly punch list items remain we should be substantially complete as we expected and communicated before as we end the second quarter.
There have been a few media reports in the past regarding counterclaims by our customer; we believe their claims which allege defects are completely without merit.
Turning to Slide 5.
The Government segment bookings in the quarter were $389 million compared to $882 million a year ago which booked the initial award of Portsmouth.
We continue to see a consistent level of task order volume under the LOGCAP IV contract in Afghanistan at least through 2013 and we recently announced a new task order awards for the U.S.
Army in Africa.
We are pleased to report that the protest of our win for the Jacksonville Naval Air Station contract was favorably resolved during the quarter.
We're now actively engaged in transitioning onto this site.
Ending backlog for the Government segment was $695 million.
Global Services segment booked $249 million in new awards including renewals for existing operations and maintenance contracts.
We expect when the U.S.
economy picture strengthens it will have a positive effect on our O&amp;M markets.
Ending backlog for the Global Services segment was $1.9 billion.
Now the Power segment had $93 million in new awards and an ending backlog of $1.8 billion.
We're beginning to see a visible pickup in the number of opportunities for gas-fired power generation which is encouraging.
We're also anxiously awaiting clarity on the proposed but stalled pollution control guidelines.
Consistent with our guidance for 2012 our Power segment results include the costs associated with the ongoing research and development investments in NuScale.
NuScale is actively engaged in preparing its application for a Department of Energy funding through the FOA process announced in January.
Now when you look at our end markets overall we really see opportunities across the portfolio including Oil &amp; Gas petrochemicals mining transportation power and government.
International capital programs continue to rule the day but a strengthening U.S.
economy would certainly be a plus.
Now I'd like to turn it over the last time to Mike Steuert Fluor's CFO and ask him to provide some of the details of the operating performance and our corporate financial metrics.
Mike? Thanks David and David keeps telling me to quit smiling.
I've been doing that all day long.
Anyway I know it may be hard to believe but I will miss these calls and I will miss the regular interface with the investor community.
But I am confident that you'll be in good hands with Biggs going forward.
Our detailed results for each operating segment can be found in the earnings release and in the 10-Q.
Please turn to Slide 6 of the presentation.
As David mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog was up $3 billion over the last quarter to a record $42.5 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog was 13% at quarter end with 79% of the backlog for projects located outside of the United States.
Moving on to corporate items on Slide 7.
G&amp;A expenses for the quarter was $38 million up from $34 million a year ago.
The increase was a net result of quite a number of factors none of which was individually significant.
The tax rate for the quarter was 26%.
We expect the tax rate for the full year to be in the 31% to 33% range.
Moving on to the balance sheet.
Consolidated cash from our securities ended the quarter with $2.7 billion which is down about $100 million from year end.
Cash utilized by operating activities was $47 million during the quarter which was mainly due to the timing of payments in the U.S.
Army for ongoing LOGCAP work.
This quarter end we have received approximately $200 million in LOGCAP payments.
In addition during the quarter we repurchased $27 million of Fluor shares and paid $21 million in dividends.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $54 million which compares with $56 million a year ago.
In summary Fluor's financial position remains extremely strong.
Finally let me conclude my remarks by talking about our guidance for 2012 which is shown on Slide 8.
First quarter financial results including solid earnings strong new awards and record backlog point to the company's growth expectations for 2012.
At this early stage of the year we are reaffirming our 2012 guidance in the range of $3.40 to $3.80 per share.
Our 2012 guidance assumes G&amp;A expense will be in the range of $160 million to $180 million and that capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $250 million to $280 million.
Now with that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mike congratulations.
David maybe you can talk about going forward prospects in Oil &amp; Gas.
I mean I hate to be greedy after a very good quarter but can you still grow backlog from here? I mean we always want more.
So are the prospects pretty evenly distributed globally? How should we think about Oil &amp; Gas backlog going forward? Well one thing we're absolutely aligned on growing backlog.
I think as we've said in the past it's going to be lumpy.
But we really had a really good quarter this quarter and I do believe as we end the year we have the opportunity to continue to grow backlog.
The prospects are across-the-board and it's not just Oil &amp; Gas.
Theres still a lot of headroom in a lot of different markets.
But specifically to your question about Oil &amp; Gas I think it's pretty diverse frankly.
It's geographically diverse.
And it's both in upstream as well as downstream but I do believe you're going to start to see a significant amount of petrochemicals come back in through that backlog.
As we said we've got 2 really good relationships with 2 of the premier people in that petrochemical market.
So we feel like we're in a pretty good position for the uptick that I think is going to take place over the next 5 years in the United States.
But I think the story is is our global footprint and our ability to satisfy a pretty wide-ranging list of Oil &amp; Gas customers just about any place on the planet.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then obviously we're getting lots of investor questions on mining CapEx and how that might have affect Fluor going forward.
I mean you've I'm sure read or heard from -- about from Rio and BHP in their comments lately about mining CapEx.
You -- how does that factor into your thinking going forward about what you see out there? I mean obviously we know there's a lot out there.
But what do you think the chances are that some of these big prospects that you're doing FEEDs on sort of get pushed to the right a bit? I think I still look at the commodity markets and the growth projections that are out there pretty much globally into the '14 '15 timeframe.
And in order for our customers to hit those marks they have to be spending today.
Of the projects that we have in our sights we really don't see any of them significantly moving to the right.
We feel pretty good about -- we feel very good about the backlog that we have and the prospects that will be awarded as we go through the next say 3 to 4 quarters.
So although I've heard the same things you've heard the actions of our customers on the ones that we're focused on the projects that we're focused on we see relatively little volatility in those programs.
Research Division</strong> Mike I think it would only be appropriate for your last call if I ask you about I&amp;I margins at 3.7%.
We've been spoiled by 4%-plus.
Anything in the quarter here? I know you're over-absorbing in mining so mining margins should be pretty good so what do you think? Well they're going to stay healthy Andy.
I mean they have bounced around.
They will bounce around a little bit plus or minus 4% as we go through 2012.
I think we had solid margins this quarter and I expect to see healthy margins through the rest of this year.
I mean as David said though the market remains very robust.
We'll go next to Jamie Cook from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Anyway just 2 questions.
One again the awards were very healthy on the mining side even with some of the more cautious comments out there.
I thought the awards in mining would sort to be back-end loaded.
So can you talk about was there any pull-forward in awards relative to what you thought or were you just being conservative before? On the Oil &amp; Gas side the profit dollars over the past couple of quarters have been consistent but the margins have showed 3 quarters of modest improvement.
So how do we think about that in the back half of the year? And then my last question Mike I am surprised we didn't see more of a share repurchase in the program just given how your stock has been trading recently the concerns on mining and just the prospects you have out there.
So if you can just address that.
Mike why don't you handle the last one and I'll take the mining and Oil &amp; Gas questions.
Okay.
Well Jamie one of the things we've said over the past years is we've kind of gated our share repurchases to our free cash flow generation.
And as we said we used about $100 million of free cash flow in the quarter about $50 million from operations and some for share repurchase and dividends.
And that was just a reflection of the fact that we are building working capital as the company grows throughout the year.
If the stock --clearly as the stock price stays where it is which I think is tremendously undervalued given our prospects I think the company is to going to very seriously look at share repurchases as they move through 2012 going forward.
I'll talk about mining first.
Jamie we never really communicated where we were going to be in the first quarter and we did signal that it was back-end loaded and I still agree with that sentiment.
We're pretty much on target and I'll use that lumpiness word again as we talk about mining and as we talk about Oil &amp; Gas because I think this year it is going to be probably more lumpy than it's been in past years.
I do believe as I've said that in both mining and in Oil &amp; Gas it is back-end loaded.
So even with the good quarter we had we think we've got some bigger quarters to come assuming that things stay on cycle.
Within Oil &amp; Gas we're right on target.
I think as we talked about during the end of last -- well middle of last year end of last year that we thought we were at an inflection point in earnings and Oil &amp; Gas and I look to see that to continue to improve as we go through this year.
Research Division</strong> So margins will improve in the back half of the year? I'm not going to answer that question.
You had your shot at Mike on margins.
And I'm not going to give you another shot at it.
We'll take our next question from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David how is your utilization rates at your offices? How do you feel about the amount of professionals that you have on staff given the growth in backlog and your pretty good expectations for continued growth into the future? And do you start to see some of the excess capacity in the marketplace start to get put away and maybe we'll see a little bit more quicker joint ventures or alliance agreements like you've kind of talk about with Dow and BASF as you move forward 2012? Well I'll answer that backwards.
I think the agreements that were -- that I mentioned aren't because of a tightening in the marketplace.
I think it's a testament to the performance on projects that we've executed for those 2 companies over the last several years.
I think we've got a very good understanding of how to get the best bang for the buck and I think that these agreements were a testament to that.
So I think that our performance on many programs around the globe for these folks are really starting to pay dividends in how we interact with our customers.
The first part I guess of your question was -- I forgot.
Research Division</strong> Regarding your employees your...
Sorry.
We feel very good about that.
I think we've proven that we're the employer of choice in our marketplace and with the tools and systems that we have and the on-boarding process and the educational opportunities we'll continue to be that.
We are not seeing any pinch points as we speak right now relative to the professional employees we need regardless of the region.
I think as we've talked before the only place that I really see some difficulty in the future is in the craft employee range where we need to really turn up the heat on the training and identification training of resources on the craft side in several places around the world specifically Australia and I think specifically in the United States as we start to get towards the EPC of many of these petrochemical programs.
We feel really good about where we sit relative to our ability to attract and retain the level of professional resource that we need to do; a growing backlog of projects as we go through the next 2 years.
We'll go next to Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of question if I look at your EPS guidance and if I look what you guys did in this quarter in terms of EPS sort of implies that you're relatively flat EPS throughout the year particularly the low end of the guidance was all the puts and takes.
Yet your backlog growth in the quarter was very good and you are implying that the backlog growth throughout the year could actually get better.
So what exactly are you guys saying about the burn rate of the backlog or are you just being conservative? Well Andrew as you look at our revenue over the last 4 quarters the burn rate has gone up and I think that will continue to go up as we move through 2012 with our healthy backlog.
There are obviously some things happening in the year.
Power is not going to be as strong as it was last year but we do see some continuous obviously some improving strength in Oil &amp; Gas and Industrial &amp; Infrastructure especially and Global Services continues to grow very nicely.
So on balance our guidance reflected all that and also reflected our planned investments in NuScale throughout the year.
And taking that all together I do think we're going to see overall strength as we go through the year.
And we gave a range of guidance I know you guys are at the top -- consensus is still in the top of the range and we'll just see how the year turns out.
But right now I think everything looks very positive for us.
I mean I'm not going to really narrow the range or do anything else right now but I just think that we had a really solid first quarter and we look forward for that to continue.
Research Division</strong> We'll always try.
Let me ask you a question in terms of the payments from the government.
Are you guys seeing generally a trend in particular there's $200 million delay? Are you seeing a trend that the government is extending base payable to the contractors? No.
What's was happening is the government is being pretty finicky in what's required to get payment and we're just taking our time and making sure all our invoices are correct and every i is dotted and every t is crossed and it takes us time to get invoices submitted.
Once invoices are submitted they're paying rather quickly.
It's not that they're extending our payment terms.
It's all the work that has to go into and getting ready to be paid.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is in regards to Dow Chemicals.
We've had several of your sales also highlight a very strong relationship with Dow.
So could you talk a bit about what sets Fluor apart from some of your peers when it comes to Dow Chemicals? And as you see your opportunities in North America what really singles you out? Well I think it's -- it goes back to the history of what we've done.
I think when you think about the ethylene chain we're not part of that ethylene club for a reason.
It gives us the ability to kind of take an objective view of technologies and how they are deployed which I think it has proven over time to be a very successful area.
I think we're extremely strong on the front-end FEED type of work and deliver a completed FEED package that I think is second to none in that industry.
And what that translates into is surety of completion both in terms of cost and schedule.
I think the global nature of our reach is also part of our customers look at wanting to be in more of a closer relationship with us so that regardless of where they have a capital asset opportunity they've got an ability to come to us to help deploy that.
When you look at what we've done for Dow over the years in Kuwait in Argentina in the United States it's a long-term relationship where you tend to have people that understand exactly how to start a program and you don't start from square one when you're pulling these teams together and these scopes together.
I just think it's a -- like I said it's a testament to our history but clearly customers value our diversity of geography our strength in technology deployment our I think unending supply of talent and our ability to deploy that talent anywhere in the globe.
Research Division</strong> That was very helpful.
My second question and I had to throw one in of course on NuScale.
I was at a recent conference on SMRs in South Carolina and the NRC representative highlighted your design as being one of the 2 key designs they're focusing on.
And the sense I got was that their licensing process to date is very much on track.
I just wanted to get an update to the extent you can give that and really maybe provide some color on whether if things are on track if that is helping you or let's say to elicit [ph] more partners? I think so.
I think we're absolutely on track or NuScale is on track to submit their application for FOA this month.
We are expecting an accelerated review and award of the FOA which could be as early as September which is in line with what our anticipated schedule was going to be.
And I think once FOA is awarded to NuScale there will be lots of investors clamoring.
We've had lots of discussion with many many potential investors but I think they're being prudent waiting to see who actually does get the FOA.
But I feel very confident that once that takes place we'll -- they'll be off to the races.
We'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
So you had a nice project win in Canada with oil sands.
I'm just curious it seems like a lot of projects could start getting up off the ground maybe in phased deployments.
I was just curious how you see that progressing through 2012 and '13 and kind of had to move the needle within the Oil &amp; Gas section as well.
Well I think it's going to be consistent as we go through the year and yes it will move the needle.
I think it bodes better as we get into '13 and beyond because I think as you said the oil price still above $100 in some of these projects getting to a point where it's time to pull the trigger is certainly going to add that opportunity for us.
And I think just like I mentioned in petrochemicals I think we're extremely well positioned in Canada to perform a lot of that activity.
I think our experience there again is seen very positively by our customers and being able to go from FEEDs to EPCs is a logical move.
And we feel pretty confident about where we stand.
And that market continues to be a major contributor to Oil &amp; Gas' earnings as we go through the next 2 or 3 years.
Okay great.
And separately can you just give us an update on Conga? It sounds like that's kind of a wait-and-see mode.
Is that having a material impact on the outlook on '12? Maybe just give us a feel for what's going on there.
No no material impact on '12.
They're still going through their process and revalidating those permits and we'll just continue to support the customer as we go through the -- probably through the summer in dealing with that.
But no indications that that's going to change necessarily.
Those projects are challenged they're large the government involvement tends to delay things and this isn't really any different than a lot of other mining projects that we do around the globe.
This one just happened in the middle as opposed to in the beginning and delayed it so even a negative outcome on Conga does not materially impact Fluor in '12.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little more detail on the Oil &amp; Gas projects that you announced by name? Are you booking full scope on TCO at this point? I mean is this stage really set? Can you just walk through them maybe and give us a little more color? I think TCO is just the first increment.
There'll be increments as we go through the next few years.
It's a very very large project.
And like I said this is just the first tranche.
On Reliance we have the responsibility for the EPCM services as well as some of the procurement on both the gasifier and on the petrochemical facility.
And in that particular case we don't see any additional awards on that scope.
There are other projects that we're pursuing with Reliance and that's a good -- we're also a good start with that relationship and I feel very very good about that.
On the oil sands there's going to be several increments as we go through '12 and '13 on several of those programs including Syncrude and some of the other programs.
So I think we've got good visibility into the next 4 to 6 quarters and there'll be significant amounts of those programs that follow.
Research Division</strong> Is that the same for the Pemex was that the Hidalgo Refinery or...
That was the FEED.
So yes I apologize.
There is EPC values as we get into next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then in mining you noted that you wanted something in Australia in the iron ore side.
Any color on the customer? Was that your normal customer? Was that outside of your normal work? No color.
Research Division</strong> No color? Sorry.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
And was there any adjustment from...
No color but you're pretty perceptive.
Research Division</strong> Was there any adjustment made for Ma'aden in the quarter? No.
No.
Research Division</strong> Or is there any planned adjustment based on some of what the trade press was talking about in terms of scope change? Modestly so potentially I think that what we're seeing is performance issues on the part of some of the contractors that have been selected.
And if in fact they can't rectify their performance there may be scope coming back to Fluor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the mix of work you're booking in Oil &amp; Gas right now a fair amount of PMC and FEED work and the dollars are certainly big.
I guess can you start feeling more comfortable that margins can -- not just trough and sort of sit here but you get more comfortable that the second half maybe just fixed cost absorption or something starts driving a better than high 3s margin? I wouldn't venture to give a number there.
I would say that we are seeing utilization pick up and obviously there's a leveraging component to that.
As I said a minute ago I think as you go back over the last 6 quarters we kind of saw the trough and my expectation is that you're going to see improving margins as we go through this year and into next.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question if you'll allow me on the buyback.
Can you talk about matching cash flow to your repurchases but you did do a pretty big bond deal last year and I thought that was dedicated or targeted towards repurchases because you didn't want to repatriate cash to execute your repurchase program.
So I'm just wondering what's holding you back on that.
Well we did do a big bond deal but we also did larger purchases last year that pretty much matched $600 million repurchase with a $500 million bond deal.
I don't think you're going to see us do another bond deal this year.
But like I said if stock stays undervalued I wouldn't be surprised to see us increase our purchases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe Mike on your way out you could tell me what the fair value is so I can adjust my target.
I'd certainly like to see it above all your targets.
We'll take our next question from Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Mike congratulations and we look forward to working with you.
And I was hoping you might be able to provide some color regarding the margin trends you're seeing on the [indiscernible] margins on new work you're booking here in the quarter and maybe compare that to what's in your backlog and their respective segments and what you were booking a year ago.
Are you seeing any meaningful change in the yield profit characteristics or mix of terms cost plus versus fixed price what have you? You guys are all the same and you're looking for guidance within guidance and you're looking for us to mark a number.
And we're not going to take the bait.
I think the message that I think Id deliver is we are seeing improvement in some of the markets.
The predatory pricing that we saw 6 quarters ago has ceased and cooler heads are prevailing and the cooler heads and our clients that are prevailing is based on the fact that they're disappointed in the performance of some of those predatory pricing results.
So I think we stayed true to our metrics we stayed true to our risk reward expectations and I believe that improving margins is something that we'll see as we go through the end of this year and next year.
Research Division</strong> That's encouraging to hear.
My follow-up question so we saw that one of the other Australian LNG projects experienced an increase in CapEx projection I think earlier today maybe yesterday.
And I was wondering if you can comment on your thoughts on exposure.
I think you've indicated that you converted the Gladstone contract cost plus but maybe some additional color or thoughts on the labor situation in Australia and how comfortable you are in executing against that? Well I think we've been pretty close to the estimates as we converted so we feel pretty good about our ability to perform on that upstream side.
I really can't comment on the LNG projects that are experiencing increases.
But I will say that the construction market is tight in Australia and it will do nothing but get tighter.
So some sort of an inflation calculation in these projects I think is prudent.
The outcome is yet obviously to be seen but we feel good about the projects that we're doing and the estimates that we're working too right now.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the topic of the major infrastructure projects like the Tappan Zee Bridge where you're shortlisted did any one of those shortlisted teams get a competitive advantage or is it really going to be about price? And then can you talk about what kind of timing expectations you have for some of those projects? Well I think the timing is -- who knows on -- just using Tappan Zee as an example.
They really haven't centered on how they're going to actually pay for it.
So until there's a funding source there probably won't be an award.
I think we feel very good about our competitive position because of our experience with our partner American Bridge on the San Francisco Bay Bridge.
And I think when you look at the execution of the Bay Bridge it's going extremely well.
So I think we've got a good opportunity to repeat that with a trusted partner.
As we feel like we can be competitive both in terms of our execution approach as well as the cost.
But there's a lot of infrastructure programs that are due to be bid as we go through this year there's 3 here in Texas and Texas is about the only place that has the funding source identified for these programs.
There's a couple outside of the United States that we're pursuing as well as some of the other ones in the Midwest and Northeast.
And Washington D.C.
And as well as the Capital Beltway program in D.C.
But obviously Tappan Zee Bridge is a marquee project.
We like doing those.
It's a very large program and there's very few companies and/or consortiums that can actually do that work and do that very well and we feel like we're one of the best to do that.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
And then the 10-Q mentioned a benefit in Global Services from Afghanistan.
So can you just clarify the role of Global Services there and maybe what visibility you have to continue to benefit the segment there? What we do Afghanistan in Global Services through our equipment business which just supplied one of our competitors and that business has been going very well for us.
It has been a very healthy profit contributor to our [indiscernible] business which is part of Global Services.
Research Division</strong> And is that expected to continue on or has that kind of reached peak or is it going to...
I would certainly expect it to continue at least until the end of 2014 as -- because I think we expect ourselves as well as our competition to stay in Afghanistan to -- into 2014 when the troops leave or at least when they've sort of drawn down somewhat.
There was also an agreement signed that extends that -- some sort of commitment of the U.S.
government to Afghanistan in the 2024 so I think there's opportunity beyond '14.
We'll go next to Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First is your forecast for a negative $0.20 impact from NuScale for 2012 still intact? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And secondly what's the probability that Fluor pursues a similar project to Greater Gabbard now that it's over over the next 1 to 2 years? Well we're involved in several consortiums right now and I'll answer it this way.
We've learned an extremely expensive lesson and we would like to deploy those lessons on one that is contracted differently.
We will not take on another one under the terms of which we took Greater Gabbard.
We'll go next from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Dave just in terms of the uptick in bookings that you indicated we should see through the year and beyond it seems as if I mean relative to the cycles we've seen in the past it's a lot more -- not only is it a lot more diverse but there's a lot more in terms of just incremental work with projects that you're already on as opposed to individual discrete projects.
One is is that fair or just my perception? And what does that mean for margins especially out in the years beyond? I mean as you spread out can you leverage that as well? I think so.
I think you've got a couple of very very large programs that are going to be phased and that's what you've seen and I think that's a good observation.
I do think though that there's a lot of new customers in there but the projects unfortunately aren't the bazillion dollar project that we've seen in some of the cases lately.
So when you look at that midlevel project the $200 million to $500 million project there's a lot of those in that $8 billion for the quarter so -- but to get overshadowed because of the big ones.
So when you think about diversity of market diversity of geography we're able to put in new customers at differing margin positions.
So I think as a portfolio as I've said I see the markets improving for us and logically our ability to deliver higher margin to our shareholders of possibility.
But again I'm going to keep using the word lumpiness when we talk about new awards because one of these programs can be 1/3 of the new award expectation.
And if it moves from one quarter to the next or based on a planned award date you could see some highs and lows even as it relates to the $8 billion that we put on the board this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And as it relates to specifically to the Power market you mentioned the gas opportunity.
Could you give us a little more color on the size of that over the next couple of years potentially for Fluor? Well I think there's 2 pieces in Power that in the near term will start to gain benefit.
One is gas like you say and depending on the size of the plant you're looking at between $600 million and $800 million kind of projects and we're working on numerous front ends right now on gas-fired power plants.
With gas at $2 obviously gas is at least being talked about as baseload power generating capacity and it's easier to permit.
I think that we're well positioned on many of those to make those into EPC programs and start to grow our Power group again.
The other piece of that is on the environmental compliance side which is a large part of our Power offering.
And we're working with several of the Power producers to look at those regulations and how they impact the generating capacity from coal.
Many of our customers are ready to spend money based on the front ends that we've done and others have done to upgrade coal production to change oversights from coal to some other fuel as well as shut down some of these facilities all of which fall into our capability.
The challenge is as I mentioned in my prepared statements we can't get a regulatory environment that has any surety to it that would allow customers to pull that trigger on capital expenditures.
That's a huge input into their business model and they need surety.
I think the point I would make is that affordable power is the only thing that is going to help overall economic development.
Everybody on this call likes to go into their house and flip their light switch and the lights come on; pretty simple.
If you look at where some of these regulations are headed that may not be the case in the future unless you have good regulatory surety and you allow these companies to do what they do best and that's provide that affordable power.
Our next question comes from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations again Mike.
And I have another margin question for you before you depart but I swear it's not around guidance.
But if I look at your U.S.
pretax margins you've been secularly up for about a decade versus your foreign pretax margins which have been sort of secularly down.
I'm just wondering if you capture or Fluor captures more scope on North America projects versus on the international side that that would explain that and if that still the case for some of these petchem projects coming up? I really don't think you can split it by North American versus international or non-U.S.
Our business is so diverse and each businesses different in terms of this global marketplace in the U.S.
and the rest of the world.
So there's no real simple answer to that question in terms of margins.
Obviously we go through cycles and all our businesses have entirely different margin profiles.
We've also had a margin drag on Gabbard that may be impacting some of the numbers that you're looking at.
And we have very healthy margins in Global Services and predominantly U.S.
we have very healthy margins in some of our DOE work in the U.S.
as well.
So it varies but it also have a corporate expenses here and a lot of other things so it's really hard to come down to the bottom line question or answer there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking back at some of the contracts won by those predatory Southeast Asian EMCs would you agree that they tended to be mostly greenfield-type projects where the LSTK model is more applicable...
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Whereas Fluor's reimbursable model is probably better suited to Brownfield expansion and phase projects that you're currently booking because they're more complex with more issues because the client wants as little downtime as possible? I think that's a fair analogy but I would also say that we can be very effective on greenfield process units too.
I think that your categorization is correct if you go back over the last couple of years.
When you look at -- just look at Sadara as an example.
There's a big program where the utilities and off-sites which is the heartbeat of the plant.
That's a reimbursable contract with somebody like Fluor where many of the process units are bid out on an LSTK basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more.
Can you talk about just potential and possibly timeline regarding your ICA Fluor JV providing some offshore fabrication services for some of the Gulf of Mexico prospects that you have as they move from FEED into EPC? They've actually done quite well over the last few years in the tonnages that they've shipped.
I can't remember the exact tonnages.
But I do know that they've got active bids right now on a lot of tonnage in support of the Gulf of Mexico primarily for Pemex.
But obviously that translates into other opportunities for other producers than Pemex.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear next from Avi Fisher with BMO Capital Markets.
Have you guys ever -- I don't think you've ever disclosed pass-through costs So I just wondered 2 quick questions wonder if you'd ever considered disclosing your pass-through costs or at least giving us an indication of how much they are in the I&amp;I segment? No.
Okay.
The reason I'm asking is if I just kind of let my model run off based on sort of average rates lately your revenues just start to exponentially grow and I just kind of wonder at what point do you start bumping up against capacity in your segments? At what point do we have just too much of a good thing? I don't think we bump up against it.
Any -- when I look at the aspirations that I set for the company I don't see any limiting factor from a capacity perspective.
We're able to as I said I think we're the employer of choice in our segment and that's a global -- from a global perspective.
We've got a very extensive process and tools that allow us to move from designing in Houston to designing in Manila and the designer sitting down at the same protocols templates and systems which is not consistent with many of our competitors.
So I think our stability of execution model and that diversity is playing well for us.
I think when you look at this -- the downturn so to speak 2 years ago 3 years ago in Oil &amp; Gas we were able to actually strengthen our organization by putting some of those people on -- in different markets around the globe.
But it also allowed us to grow that next generation of leader and manager and technical expert.
So I don't see us hitting a capacity issue in any form or fashion as we go through the next 2 to 3 years.
In fact I believe that we're going to be able to outpace our competition in that regard.
And we'll move on now to Randy Bhatia with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most everything I have has been answered but I do have a couple of minor ones.
If you could -- I don't know if you guys have ever specifically said.
I know you have a pretty bullish outlook in the Oil &amp; Gas segment and particularly in upstream.
Can you comment specifically on how you feel Fluor is positioned with regard to North American liquefaction? Theres a lot of news on that.
We got a lot of inquiries on that.
I think we're well positioned.
I think there's a couple of sides of that.
Clearly there are large programs and we have absolute experience and capability in doing those megaprojects.
The only piece that we've not been as active as others is on the cryogenic piece but that's only one piece of that -- of those programs.
I think we've also been very active in the re-gasification market around the globe and a lot of the transportation types of assets to both ship and receive gas products is part of our ability.
When you think of pipelines we have a robust capability in the design and construction of pipelines around the globe.
that is translatable to North American market.
So when you look at the whole gas play we have the ability from the wellhead -- the wellhead up we don't do any down-hole stuff but the gas compression transportation the processing all of the facilities that sit around the liquefaction plant as you know or may have read we're teamed with JGC on the pursuit of at least one right now base load LNG plant so I think we're pretty well positioned to participate in that market in a very large way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just the other one circling back on the Greater Gabbard project.
Can you give us any kind of like kind of likely outcomes scenarios and timelines with regard to the legal dispute that you guys talked about in the Q? I know I mean I heard your prepared remarks but I mean what is the legitimate expectation for how long that could play out and could it be material in terms of defense charges or even longer-term earnings charges? Well I think the -- we're in the process right now that will end up in some sort of an arbitration.
There's currently planned for some time this year.
Who knows where that's going to go because of the legal wranglings that take place? But I think as I said we feel very confident on the quality of the asset that we produced for the customer.
The customer is enjoying the benefit of the power being produced.
Many of the defects that they claim we have refuted in both word and in technical deed and we feel good about where we stand.
But we wanted to finish the project which we will except for punch list items and maybe some normal warranty issues we'll be all but complete as we end the second quarter which is the plan that we put in place some time ago.
Even with the weather issues that we experienced in the first quarter and have already experienced in the second quarter we're still on track and we feel very good about the asset that we're leaving behind from a legacy standpoint and the customer will enjoy revenues -- profitable revenues off of the generating capacity we provided them.
And we'll hear next from Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Greg Elek in for Joe.
Just had a couple of quick questions here and most of my questions have been answered.
Just number one on the Power side.
I know that NuScale is running in around $0.20 kind of headwind here.
Do you believe that there is a possibility of that business kind of being profitable in 2012? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in addition to the just adjustment on the tax rate I just want to make sure that's mainly due to kind of the $0.10 benefit this quarter versus any sort of mix? That was really out of an item out of South Africa that impacted the tax rates favorably in the quarter.
I'm not sure Id calculate the benefit that high but where our normal tax rate is.
We had a couple of things in the quarter and the way I kind of view it is the favorable tax rate pretty much offset the unfavorable and unexpected in terms of what we got on indices.
Where we took -- I think we disclosed the 13 -- roughly $13 million charge there.
Those 2 were pushed and I think the bottom line is we came very close to your consensus.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I got it.
And I just one last question a little bit more kind of bigger picture here.
I know that shale gas and your opportunity is kind of a big theme right now and clearly you're very well positioned around petrochem LNG natural gas firepower.
It would be great if you could give us a better sense in terms of timing of which opportunity is kind of for each one of those opportunities for yourselves and where you kind of potentially see the biggest points in ramp whether that's 13 '14 versus today? I believe first out of the basket would be petrochemicals.
I think that you've seen a huge shift in the belief that it is a long-term profitable opportunity for our customers in that market with sub-$4 gas.
So we're very active right now on the front-end FEEDs on both greenfield or new ethylene cracker complexes but just as heavily involved in the revamp nature of a lot of the assets that have been starved for capital over the last decade.
So I think that's the first mover.
I think the gas-fired power is again it's held up in the regulatory mire that we find ourselves in.
And then I think liquefaction is probably last on that list except for maybe one of the programs that it's kind of maybe a little bit ahead of the others.
But I would put them in that sequence of benefit for us.
And with that being our final question I will hand the conference back over to Mr.
David Seaton for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thanks to all of you for participating this afternoon.
We really appreciate the interest you have in our company.
As you've gathered from our comments today we're very pleased with our performance in the first quarter which included a significantly strong new award quarter.
We have a very strong prospect list for the balance of the year but again I'll keep reminding everyone of the inherent lumpiness quarter-over-quarter on the new awards.
I want to take one last opportunity again to thank Mike for his outstanding leadership over the past 11 years.
And again welcome Biggs to the Fluor team.
I'm very pleased to have had such a strong successor to Mike and we look forward to getting an opportunity to introduce Biggs to all of you in the near future.
Again we greatly appreciate your interest in our company and as well as the confidence that you show in Fluor.
And I wish all of you a good day.
Thank you and goodbye.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all once again for your participation.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the Fluor Corporation's second quarter conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 8 at the following telephone number: (888) 203-1112.
The pass code of 5948843 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thanks very much operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's second quarter 2012 conference call.
With us today on the call are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed.
We have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks today.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2 of the presentation.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information and there is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of those risk factors in the company's Form 10-K filed on February 22 2012 and in our 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us here today.
Today we'll be reviewing our results for the second quarter and discussing the trends we see for the second half of the year.
Now I'd like to start by covering some of the highlights of our second quarter performance and ask that you maybe -- please turn to Slide 3.
Net earnings for the quarter were $161 million or $0.95 per diluted share.
Our consolidated segment profit for the quarter was just over $287 million which compares favorably with $280 million of segment profit in the second quarter 2011.
I'm pleased to report that results for the quarter included double-digit profit growth in all segments except for Power which continues to experience a weak market demand and includes approximately $15 million in expense associated with NuScale.
Our consolidated revenues for the quarter were $7.1 billion an increase of 18% over $6 billion reported a year ago.
New awards were strong with $7.3 billion in new contract awards during the quarter.
Segment awards included $5 billion in Oil &amp; Gas and $1.1 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and almost $800 million in Government.
Our consolidated backlog rose to a record $43 billion.
Turning to Slide 4.
At $5 billion the Oil &amp; Gas segment had a sizable new award -- awards for the quarter which included additional scope and incremental releases for a major oil sands expansion in Canada.
Our ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas is now at $19.5 billion which represents 16% increase over last quarter and a 30% increase over a year ago.
The Oil &amp; Gas group is gaining some momentum.
We're encouraged by the recent growth in new awards and backlog.
Looking forward not only do we see a large number of prospects internationally but our opportunity set in North America is substantial and should progress into EPC awards as we get into '13 which is what we've discussed I think for the last 2 quarters.
We expect natural gas prices in the United States will remain well within the attractive investment levels which will drive significant investment in petrochemical and gas-to-liquids projects many of which we're already involved in.
Considering our strategic relationships with Dow and BASF and a host of other key clients we -- they are considering those major capital expenditures.
We're very enthusiastic about this market.
Earlier this month we announced that we have formed a joint venture with Sao Paolo-based Construcap to pursue engineering procurement and construction management projects in Brazil.
Construcap has been active in Brazil for nearly 70 years and is one of Brazil's largest construction companies serving the industrial commercial and heavy civil markets.
The joint venture will link Construcap's long-term presence in Brazil with Fluor's project execution leadership.
This model I must say is very similar to the approach that we took in Mexico some 15 years ago and you've seen our extremely satisfactory performance with that long-term joint venture that we call Grupo -- with Grupo ICA that we call ICA Fluor.
Moving to the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment which posted second quarter awards of $1.1 billion including additional scope on an iron ore project in West Africa and an award for a new auto sheet facility for Ma'aden and Alcoa in Saudi Arabia.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $19.5 billion which is about $2 billion lower than last year as a result of the significantly higher revenue burn in the mining and metals business line.
With regard to infrastructure business line demand for transportation project is increasing with the number of prospects in the bidding phases that we expect decisions on in the next 3 to 4 quarters.
And we're pleased to report that the I-95 express lanes project reached financial close earlier this week so we will be adding this project to our backlog in the third quarter.
With regard to Greater Gabbard the project is substantially complete.
We are now focused on the arbitration proceedings which are ongoing.
There has been no change in our position which is discussed in more detail in our 10-Q.
We hope for a swift decision from the arbitration panel.
Now turning to Slide 5 the Government segment's bookings for the quarter were $769 million which compares to $1.1 billion last year when we received advanced funding on the LOGCAP IV contract.
Our expectation is the task order revenue under LOGCAP IV will remain consistent throughout at least 2013.
Ending backlog for the Government segment was $505 million.
Global Services.
They booked $279 million in new awards including renewals of existing operations and maintenance contracts.
And we believe that when the U.S.
economy picture strengthens it will have a very positive effect on our O&amp;M markets.
Ending backlog for the Global Services segment was $1.9 million -- billion.
The Power segment had $118 million in new awards and an ending backlog of $1.7 billion.
We're beginning to see the pickup in a number of opportunities for new gas-fired project -- power project generation in North America which we see as very promising.
While the market for new power generation continues to struggle we again report that Dominion Virginia Power has selected Fluor to design and build a new 1 350-megawatt combined-cycle facility at the Brunswick County Power Station.
We expect to book the initial phase of this project into backlog in the third quarter.
Consistent with our guidance for 2012 power the Power segment result included the costs associated with our ongoing research and development activities as it relates to NuScale.
NuScale submitted its application for FOA funding in May and we expect to hear the outcome of the selection process within the next few months.
Overall we continue to see substantial market opportunities globally and are particularly encouraged by the growing prospect list in the United States relating to the availability of low-cost shale gas.
With that I'll now turn it over to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance as well as our corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David.
Good morning everyone.
Good afternoon everyone excuse me.
Detailed second quarter results for each operating segment can be found in the earnings release and in the 10-Q.
To follow my comments please turn to Slide 6 of the presentation.
As David mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog was $43 billion which is up about $500 million over last quarter.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog was 12% at quarter end.
This number could increase modestly as we begin to book more power and infrastructure work which are predominantly fixed price.
Our backlog continues to be driven by international markets.
At quarter end only 18% of our backlog was for projects in the United States but we do expect that our U.S.
backlog will grow as we book more power and infrastructure work and once the expected petrochemical investment cycle commences.
Moving to corporate items on Slide 7 G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $31 million which is comparable to the same period last year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 33% which was at the higher end of our expectations due to an increase in state tax expense.
For the full year we continue to expect the rate to be in the low 30s.
Shifting to the balance sheet the consolidated cash and marketable securities balance totaled $2.5 billion at quarter end which is down about $100 million from last quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities was $129 million during the quarter.
This positive result was driven by earnings sources partially offset by growth in project working capital which excluding advanced billings grew in line with revenue.
A decline in advanced billings balances drove a cash usage in the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $66 million which compares with $102 million a year ago.
Most of our CapEx is directed towards the equipment business line and our Global Services segment.
Through 6 months our CapEx is trending below last year.
During the quarter we repurchased 2.2 million shares for $106 million and paid $27 million in quarterly dividends.
I would like to conclude my remarks by providing an update on our guidance for 2012 which is on Slide 8.
Based on strong year-to-date performance the company is raising the lower end of its 2012 EPS guidance to a range of $3.50 to $3.80 per diluted share from its previous guidance of $3.40 to $3.80 per share.
Guidance for the year assumes that G&amp;A expense will be in the range of $165 million to $175 million.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David so looking at backlog going forward I know you're going to tell me it's lumpy.
But the confidence in the Oil &amp; Gas backlog rising over time from here obviously you had a great quarter.
And then maybe you can talk about the oil sands in particular.
Obviously you have one large project that's been going on for a while but you also have a couple of FEEDs out there that maybe you can convert at some point in the next 6 to 12 months.
So maybe you can talk about those.
Well I think we are seeing a significant FEED activity which I mentioned in the previous quarter as well as maybe a quarter before.
So we're very active on that and we -- it gives us good sight into what I believe will be a very robust new award story for 2013 for Oil &amp; Gas when the FEEDs kind of translate into EPCs.
So I think we're kind of at the beginning of like I said last time of a pretty good cycle for Oil &amp; Gas.
With respect to the oil sands we are continuing to work on several programs up there.
And I think just like this quarter there are really big slugs of work that come in as backlog and that's what I think is going to provide a fair amount of the lumpiness that you mentioned.
But we continue to noodle on how we look at our new award intake and make sure that we're being very prudent and only taking it in when we have the real sanction from our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So the other side and looking at mining obviously there's been a bit of noise here lately over projects moving to the right some of the prospects that you have.
Your burn rate was obviously very good in the quarter.
So maybe you could talk about your burn rate going forward if there's any potential impact to that.
And then just the prospects in line do you still see them out there? And how do you look at backlog in I&amp;I moving forward? Well I think it'll continue to grow.
I do believe that we've had several projects kind of move to the right or have been slowed Conga being one that's been slowed and obviously the comments that you heard from BHP neither of which actions impact our outlook in this year.
Obviously it would impact next year if they didn't come back.
But I still stand by what I've said around just the overall market and when the improvement in commodity pricing is expected.
When you think about the late '13-early '14 time frame and these programs have to be there in order to satisfy those demand equations or somebody else will get them working.
In the case of the 2 that I mentioned we're continuing to support Conga on a much more modest basis as we determine the future of that program but that doesn't impact at all the burn if you will that we're anticipating for the rest of this year.
And in the case of BHP's comments we continue to support that program.
And even though there's a cash flow concern I think by all mining companies it really doesn't -- we've planned for it if you will in what we've done relative to our burn and as reflected in the improvement in our guidance.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One David I thought the one interesting thing about the quarter is you're finally at that inflection point where you're seeing Oil &amp; Gas and the I&amp;I backlog they're finally at similar levels right? So I guess as we look out over the next sort of 6 to 12 months do you think we're at that inflection point where the Oil &amp; Gas awards are strong enough to start outpacing the I&amp;I business? Because that obviously has implications for profitability and margins longer term whereas the mix has been negative.
And then I guess my second question relates to margins I guess both on Oil &amp; Gas and I&amp;I.
I would assume with Oil &amp; Gas just the backlog that you have we should be getting to a point where the utilization starts to improve.
So what are the 2 or 3 things you think we need to see before we hit a 4% on the Oil &amp; Gas margin side? And I guess with regards to Industrial &amp; Infrastructure we -- you mentioned plus or minus 4% a couple of quarters ago.
We've been below 4% the past 2 quarters.
Is 4% now out of the range for the I&amp;I segment? And if you want to pawn off the margin question to Biggs you can do that too because he doesn't get the free pass anymore.
Exactly.
And I will ask Biggs to answer the margin question.
Thanks Jamie.
But I will address and I'll kind to talk about mining in this and the transportation piece of the infrastructure as well.
I'm not sure I'd put the same time frame Jamie that you put on Oil &amp; Gas but I think we're at a point where as we get into next year -- now you got to understand we're taking in services on the FEED which really aren't big from a revenue or backlog perspective but they're very good from a profitability standpoint on a margin percentage basis.
And I'll stop on that relative to the margin question.
The EPC values are what we're going to see tick up as we get into next year.
And I think that you will see Oil &amp; Gas outpace mining as we get into next year.
There are some very large programs but I think there's also some modest projects out there that we're already working on that are in $300 million to $400 million range as well which I think are really good signals relative to the longer-term growth cycle of E&amp;C beyond '13 into '14 and '15 frankly.
And obviously that's when a lot of the earnings will drop in.
So I think that's a very good sign.
I think on mining even though things have kind of pushed to the right as I said there are some major programs out there that we're still working on that still make good economic sense for our customers and it's a matter of timing for them.
So I think where I've used the term lumpy to describe E&amp;C in the past I think I'm going to start using that to describe the mining piece.
But the other piece of I&amp;I that I think is growing and we've made this comment before if you go back almost 5 quarters there's been very little bidding activity in the transportation space.
In fact we've got 2 bids 1 bid that's already gone in and I think 3 more that go in by the end of the year that are quite sizable.
So when you combine that with the Oil &amp; Gas piece -- I mean sorry with the mining piece I think I&amp;I in that segment has continued growth but modest because of the amount of burn that you're going to see from a revenue perspective in the out quarters.
So it's going to be a put and a take with regard to I&amp;I but the real I think growth is going to be in our E&amp;C sector.
So Biggs I'll let -- if you wouldn't mind addressing the margin question.
I mean Sure I'll approach on both -- the first question on both Oil &amp; Gas and I&amp;I.
On -- the first thing I would say is that we're focused on profit dollars rather than margin rates.
So I just want to stipulate that up front.
The -- on Oil &amp; Gas the awards in second quarter do have a fair amount of customer-furnished material content.
And as David said the EPC will pick up over time and that's going to carry a higher margin rate going forward.
But over the next couple of quarters then margin rates on Oil &amp; Gas will be a little lower than that 4% target that we talked about earlier for the longer term.
But once again we want margin expansion and that's the most important thing irrespective of whether the near-term rate reflects that CFM.
We're achieving that.
Segment profit in Oil &amp; Gas is up 22% year-over-year.
So clearly a success on that front.
And the home office hours are going up so that's a good sign for the longer term as well.
On I&amp;I yes Mike said plus or minus 4% I think the last call.
First quarter or second quarter run rate is 3.6% 3.7%.
It's going to vary over time based upon the mix of mining content relative to infrastructure content and when the milestones are achieved on infrastructure which enable the higher profit rate recognitions.
Based upon what we see right now it will probably stay under that 4% number for the rest of this year.
But once again as the infrastructure jobs come on and materially hit the milestones then we expect those rates to improve over time.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So with regard to -- it sounds like on the Oil &amp; Gas side in the U.S.
in particular it's the petrochem and gas liquids that are the engines driving growth.
Can you provide a little bit more color and specifics on timing? And help us understand particularly on the gas-to-liquids side timing there relative to chemicals and relative size of the projects that you potentially see moving forward in that area.
Well I think first we're seeing some of the smaller programs that will go into EPC as we get through the rest of this year.
And those are quite good programs for us.
The gas-to-liquids programs are of such size as well as the ethylene cracker programs that we're working on are of a size to where there's going to be a fair amount of time spent on the FEED and they're going to be of a size to where a little extra scrutiny from our customers' boards will be applied.
And some of those are multibillion-dollar programs and there are several of them so we're really really encouraged by the ability to get in on most of these programs so early and we have a really good batting average of moving them from the FEED into the EPC scopes.
But I think those programs going into backlog from an EPC basis are probably mid to late next year.
But I think there's a significant amount of the small- and middle-sized that are going to help that growth story within our E&amp;C group.
Research Division</strong> And maybe as a follow-up on LNG I don't think you heard -- you mentioned LNG.
I was wondering your thoughts on that market not just in the U.S.
but also globally.
You're on the Santos but update on prospects throughout the world and maybe particular thoughts on the U.S.
and other new markets maybe Africa as well.
Relative to LNG on Santos we're not actually on the LNG plant we're on the coal-seam methane extraction piece in the transmission.
But with respect to LNG we've been very active over the last couple of quarters in preparing and actually qualifying to bid on several of the programs in the Asia Pacific region and we feel like we're very well positioned to participate in several of those.
So I mean that's kind of a change from our past and I'm quite happy that we've kind of turned the corner relative to LNG and currently have some traction.
And I think that the near-term opportunities in LNG are going to be in the Asia Pacific region with a little bit of study work done here in the States.
And I feel confident the ones that are here in the States we'll have a shot at being a participant there.
So that is a little bit of a change I think from our past where we haven't been part of that liquefaction club.
I think we've made moves partnering moves to where we're kind of changing the game there.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David back to mining.
The CEOs in the mining industry are concerned about certainly government regulation and issues politically in a lot of these countries that are operating the mines and also with the level of capital cost creep or increase that they're seeing and given the competition for talent like yourselves and vendors et cetera.
Do you agree with that? And is there things you as Fluor can do to help moderate that increase to allow some of these projects' rate of returns to allow for these programs to go ahead? That's a great question Michael.
The -- on the first part the -- governmental activism is nothing new but I think given the size of some of these programs and the delay and the cash flow concerns of these companies it's just been in the press more than what we've seen in past cycles.
I can't point to a mining program we've been involved in in the last 10 years where we haven't had some sort of governmental challenge relative to permitting or some sort of civil unrest in some of these places around the globe.
So those 2 elements aren't anything new.
I just think that because the projects have gotten so big many of the customers are using that in their explanation of what they're doing from a capital perspective.
So again I'd say that this isn't anything that we didn't expect or anticipate but I think it's a little more in the press right now and obviously on the thoughts -- in the thoughts of many people.
I think the other aspect to your question is I think we have started -- and one of the reasons why I think we've got such a position in -- with many of the mining companies in a pretty competitive landscape is because we're really being innovative in trying to drive different solutions to drive down cost.
And every project we look at it being competitive.
But at the end of the day one of the things that we're seeing is our ability to partner with our customers to kind of drive out the wish lists that are inherent in every capital program that we get into which drives a fair amount of the escalation in costs that we see.
So I'm pretty pleased with where we stand with the dialogue with our mining companies and finding solutions to hold down capital costs and deal with the timing element of some of these programs such that we don't see the huge boom that we saw in our Oil &amp; Gas segment a couple of years back where you saw the significant escalation in commodity pricing the cost of engineered equipment as well as the cost of craft labor.
So even though it's a little troublesome to see the delays it's not -- it's certainly not something that we didn't anticipate.
Research Division</strong> Well I know one client in Toronto is relying on you on that with a major project.
And we'll take our next question from George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Given kind of recent events that we've seen in the E&amp;C space I think M&amp;A is on everybody's mind.
Just wanted to get a better picture for how you guys are thinking about M&amp;A what sectors or end markets interest you and maybe what geographies as well are interesting? Well I think we've been very clear that our appetite for acquisition is niche in nature.
And we've also been very clear that -- and the areas of fabrication and construction are important to us.
In some places it's a matter of us growing what we already have.
And in other places it's about seeking partners and developing our own capability in certain regions.
I think our announcement in Brazil is an example of where we feel like partnering is the best way to gain that construction capability.
When I think about the Gulf Coast I mean that's home for us and we've got quite a capability with regard to direct-hire construction in that market.
And that's obviously a place where we're going to grow that capability to service the customers' needs.
But I think I restate kind of our approach relative to adding skill sets that are necessary for our offering to our customers and we'll see what the market -- how the market treats other types of acquisitions.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then one more question.
Just can we get an update on SMR and NuScale and how that's all proceeding? And...
Yes thanks for that question.
We are -- as I said in the prepared remarks we submitted our application for FOA about 4 weeks ago and we're very happy about the reception we've gotten.
We held a Industry Day last week in Oregon.
It was very well attended not only by potential customers but also by potential partners.
And we continue to have a dialogue with manufacturing-type partners that we hope will come in and be a partner in how we monetize this operation.
As I've said I believe that the small modular reactor is a huge piece of the future generating capacity.
It fits into several markets that we already have a good foot in both -- they're all from the standpoint of the U.S.
Government's use of this type of technology.
I think there's a bigger market outside of the United States I think which fits very nicely into our footprint.
And we'll be able to deploy these units from an engineering procurement and construction perspective.
But then I think there's also a third segment of that market where there's energy-intensive industrial uses that will change their cost basis once this technology is proven out.
I still am as bullish on the market and I'm more encouraged about our future prospects from bringing in additional talents and skills to share in the R&amp;D responsibility deploying this technology.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Good to see the award on Brunswick County.
I guess I'm just wondering how you feel about the risk profile of that project.
And then more broadly you mentioned about increasing fixed-price mix generally as the transportation and power picks up.
So how are you thinking about how much risk to put into the backlog over the next couple of years? That's a great question.
I think with regard to Brunswick we're not concerned about that risk profile at all.
We'll take in a limited notice to proceed in the third quarter and then the major piece of that as we get into next year.
And it's in our sweet spot.
I mean it's -- direct-hire construction in Virginia.
We worked for Dominion and have had great success with them as a customer.
And it fits very nicely within the model that their power group has.
With regard to lump sum as a component if you go back in our history we've been as high as 40% 45% fixed price.
I'm not signaling that that's where we're going but I think it speaks to the capacity of the organization to grow prudently and profitably above the percentage that -- where we stand today.
Looking at the power market I mean obviously those are going to be "multiple hundred million dollar" kinds of programs as well as the infrastructure projects.
And in those 2 cases I'm very comfortable with those units' ability to deliver the expected profits on those programs.
So I look at that percentage as a band and our comfort in doing more lump sum is going to be specifically as it relates to the type of project to the location of the project and the customers that we choose to do fixed-price projects with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are there any notable government programs that you're bidding on in the next few quarters that could replace the LOGCAP work when Afghanistan winds down? And then I guess just general thoughts around government strategy.
Well I think there are several programs that we're bidding on in the services space: base services base management base operations and maintenance programs around the world.
There's a couple of DOE bids that are ongoing with the normal partnering types of approach.
We said in the prepared remarks that we don't see any marked change through '13.
And in fact if history repeats itself when you think about the earnings trajectory if you will of Iraq that will bode into '14 as well.
But beyond that I wouldn't really want to comment.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
First of all in terms of SG&amp;A the forecast you've given us -- implies a pretty substantial ramp in the second half of the year.
And maybe you'd just touch on what's going on there.
Sure.
I think we're just being a little conservative with respect to the historical trends which do have some ramp-up in the fourth quarter.
So beyond that there's no real story to present in terms of what we expect.
That may ultimately prove to be conservative but as I said that's the normal trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just back to NuScale for a second.
Once the government decision's made I mean should we assume that you're either going to continue -- that you'll stop funding it or half of it's going to provided by the government? No I think that it will provide a very large piece of the funding source but so will potential partners that we will bring into that.
I don't -- it won't drop to 0 but there -- and there would be -- once we're awarded FOA there could be a ramp-up in the short term but then obviously drop as the funding is provided not only as I said by the FOA but also by the partners relative to the manufacturing side of the equation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's decision is still due this quarter? Or is it most likely now fourth quarter? I just saw that in -- reading the comments there yes.
DOE and NRC basically said that they wanted to make a decision in September.
We heard that they may want to accelerate that.
But as far as from a planning perspective we're still focused on sometime in September to hear on FOA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And David one last question if I could.
Your comments relative to the chemicals industry and GTL projects in this -- hopefully coming in second half of 2013 does that apply to the gas to liquids as well? Absolutely.
And we'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Did you comment on what FX was in the quarter? Impact to backlog if you could? In terms of the impact on backlog there's very little impact on earnings also very little.
So not a big driver either way for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you make any adjustments to your existing Ma'aden work in the quarter negative or positive? No but we added the automotive sheet plant.
But the other work there was no change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe -- it's a big Oil &amp; Gas number I'm guessing and it all came from -- or it sounds like you're just pinpointing the one project up in Canada.
Can you give any more color geographically on what you booked in the quarter upstream versus downstream et cetera? Now we're seeing some steady work start on refining.
I think petrochemicals are still driving the growth in FEED work which includes GTL in that particular market.
Upstream is still the Middle East and Central Asia with a little bit of uptick in Australia.
Research Division</strong> And all of that equals $5 billion on top of your existing Canadian work in the quarter? I think our -- it was $5 billion in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Right.
No no I was just wondering what else beyond the Canadian oil sands job contributed meaningfully to that number.
I mean I think a significant piece is the -- is mostly the Canada project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's just that much bigger than maybe we were thinking about coming into the quarter? Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Sorry for the confusion there.
[Indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the work you'll be doing hopefully in the U.S.
on the chemical petchem cycle how is that going to compare maybe margin-wise to rest of world? And will you -- I guess as a target will you be self-performing more work there? And will that have a positive margin benefit? Well I think the answer to the latter question is absolutely.
That's a keen focus of mine.
I mean I started my career in -- on the construction site and I have a passion for that.
And recapturing that preeminence is something that's important for me.
And in fact that's part of our margin growth story because in some cases those are pass-throughs from a revenue standpoint and we don't enjoy the profitability somebody else does.
And our current strategy is to capture as much of that as prudent and dictated by the execution plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that's mostly U.S.
where the direct-hire construction makes the most sense right not internationally? Or are you...
No I think there's places around the globe where we're quite comfortable and have experience in direct-hire construction in the Oil &amp; Gas space and we're looking for those opportunities.
I mean there are some that we're already focused on like the Santos project where we're doing some direct hire.
And obviously building that capability in Australia given the markets will be beneficial over the longer term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last thing on Santos.
If you can just give a quick update on how the project's going.
Obviously there was a lot of news during the quarter from the customer about the cost increases and it definitely seems like they're accelerating some upstream work.
I'm just wondering if you're exposed to that and if you're benefiting at all.
Well I think there's -- we're -- well I think we're executing per the plan and we're very -- I tell you Santos has been a very good customer from a -- just a working-relationship standpoint.
They're very talented they know what they want.
And we work very well with customers that have a robust project management capability.
And we expect to see upside to that because of the relationship we're building.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
First on the I&amp;I segment.
Just curious with the infrastructure.
So you have one in the bag already you got several that you're pursuing.
Historically these have been a higher margin than the mining business.
I'm just curious as far as kind of lead times in the ramp-up and the expectation of the projects you are bringing in house when should we anticipate those are going to meaningfully contribute to the margin profile of the I&amp;I segment? Is that a late 2013 type of dynamic assuming you win your share of the projects you're pursuing? Yes.
That's a good -- you stated a good time frame.
Okay fair enough.
And in Brazil so you have this new consortium.
Could you just talk about some of the opportunities there? Is there anything in the near term we should be looking for? And maybe the types of projects that you'll be pursuing there? Well I think it's primarily Oil &amp; Gas and primarily Petrobras obviously that's the big target.
We are starting on some smaller programs.
We're not going to get out of our swim lanes so to speak and make sure that we do the right things.
I think what you'll see in the near term is a fair amount of engineering and procurement services types of programs.
And with Construcap we will grow into an ability to do some of the larger projects from an EPC basis.
But for the rest of this year and then early into next year we're going to take a very measured approach so that we've got a sustainable relationship with Construcap.
And just finally on NuScale.
Just in light of the FOA funding I assume you have a good chance of receiving that.
You talked about bringing some partners on board but does the funding itself change your view as far as the ownership structure? I know you wanted to I guess reduce to maybe become a minority owner but I guess with the funding in place does it change your view on that? No.
No not at all.
I think the thing that I think is going to help is once we're successful with FOA that's -- it's not the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval but it's a move towards one which I think makes NuScale as an investment for others much more attractive.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is really in regards to the scope expansions you've seen.
A lot of your peers that have reported have also indicated scope expansions.
Could you sort of provide a bit of color really on why we are seeing a general broad-based scope expansion sort of phase? And just putting it in perspective because we saw something similar in the previous up cycle so would like to get a bit of color on why we are seeing this scope expansions in general right now and whether they're going to continue.
Because if you really look at your quarter in terms of awards it was very strong even with no large super-bookings.
Well I think it's not necessarily additional scope it's the phasing of the project.
So I mean this was kind of anticipated.
There's puts and takes on the values of those but this addition was not necessarily escalation if that was your question.
It was more of the sequencing of how the customer is sanctioning the project which matches up with our conservative new award intake philosophy.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
So you could potentially -- when you look out other than the large development that are yet to happen do you see other similar scope expansions as a possibility? Oh I think there's some yes.
And then I think there's in some cases phase 2s that we're already focused on that we would bring into backlog as we are sanctioned on those in the out years.
And those are some pretty large programs as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then the second question is in regards to the Power side.
When we go back to the early 2000s when we had the IPP boom flows down as much as $3.5 billion in annual bookings on the Power side and I think given the Oil &amp; Gas cycle a lot of people tend to forget that.
So as we go into the potentially a fairly large build-out and switch-out from coal to natural gas I would love to get a perspective of where you could see bookings trends going and whether we could replicate the past.
Oh I think we can replicate the past.
The challenge is going to be more on the regulatory realities than anything else.
We're -- we've already done the front ends and are -- continue to do some of the front ends for several of the major generators relative to their coal fleet and what has to be done if in fact the regulations are solid.
I think I've said in previous conversations that this -- I mean certain regulators don't like the answers so they put new permits in place but they don't describe exactly how you get them.
And I think that's where a lot of our customers are right now is -- I was at an event with one of the Power CEOs and his comment to the audience was "We're ready to spend $20 billion to deal with our coal fleet if we only had surety of regulation." So we're very well positioned with most of those customers and in fact are working with some on the early works around that coal equation and what happens.
I think the replacement in my mind is primarily on the gas side.
And as you mentioned we're very well positioned and have the resume to be very successful there.
I think one of the interesting things that's going on right now is when you think about -- I mean it's 150 degrees today in Dallas okay? A little bit of an exaggeration but it feels like 150.
But what we didn't have last winter was a cold enough winter to get those reserve margins to a point where there -- the public sees a need for change.
I think with this summer and some of the challenges and conservation activities that are going on aren't going to be enough to keep rolling brownouts to take place as we get through the end of August.
So I think public opinion is going to change when air conditioners aren't running and I think we're close to seeing that.
So I think there are some -- a couple of things converging that are going to cause a significant uptick in gas-fired power and I think we will be very active in that space.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's always good to hear.
Last question is really in regards to India.
Clearly you've been probably also following the news recently on the big blackout there.
Is it too early to call -- think about the potential opportunities arising out of that for Fluor? Could it lead to perhaps more accelerated build-out of infrastructure on the Power side in particular? It's a great question.
I think with the Reliance work that we've taken in we've added to what I think is already a robust capability in India.
We've been -- we've had a significant presence there from an engineering perspective for almost 2 decades and we're getting comfortable with the EPC market there.
And I think there's opportunity for us in that power sector.
But again I think there's a lot more clarity required on exactly what the Indian producers will do before I get too excited about that being a significant piece of our business in the near term.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I couldn't help but notice that the margins in the Global Services business were a little bit higher this quarter.
I was just wondering kind of what's driving that.
Was there anything onetime? Or was that maybe an indication of just demand for engineering talent and equipment that maybe the demand has risen to the point where you're able to charge a little bit more? Really each of the businesses in Global Services performed well in the quarter so there's no one individual driver.
And there aren't a whole bunch of or any singular unique events that stand out.
There was a sale of equipment in one instance to a customer that had a gain associated with it but that's still relatively immaterial.
So nothing singular to point out.
They're performing well and obviously we're happy with that.
Research Division</strong> And you would expect -- is this margin level that we saw in the quarter...
I don't think I want to business-by-business give line-item guidance for margins for the rest of the year.
We're happy as I said with how it performed in the quarter.
We've given our full guidance for the year which projects 2 more good quarters and I think we probably just need to leave it at that.
Nice try though.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And David on the infrastructure and specific to the transportation side it sounds like -- obviously your tone to me at least sounds a little bit improved.
Is this just something that's been incubating for a while with the way the projects have been queuing up for you? Or are we seeing real benefits from the fact that we now have a 2-year transportation bill? And if not what's your outlook from here? And how supportive that bill will be for the next couple of years? I think it's a -- it's kind of half and half.
I think we've had a fair amount of just the gestation period of developing some of these programs going as well as the ongoing debate within the various states and the federal government about where the money is coming from.
I think the infrastructure bill will be helpful particularly around the TIPYA [ph] type of support that some of these programs require.
But I think most of what we've seen is just a timing issue on bid slates.
Obviously there are some very large programs out there that we're going to participate in and we're bidding right now and I feel confident that we'll show some success as we get towards the end of this year and early next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on Greater Gabbard.
Just you kind of mentioned that you're hopeful for a swift resolution there.
Is that an indication that you actually are seeing real progress? Or is that really just what you're kind of hoping for right now? Well we're in the middle of the arbitration right now which frankly speaking is ahead of what I thought it would be.
I mean you're at the tail end of Wimbledon and you're in the -- and it's being held in London.
You're the middle of the Olympics and it's almost vacation season.
I lost a bet with my counselor that we would actually get into the arbitration as early as we did.
So I think we're very pleased with the speed of the proceedings and we still feel very confident in our position.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you look at these large petrochemical crackers are the billable man-hours within them comparable to what you did on some of your large North American refinery projects in the past? No -- well yes and no.
I think we will probably have more detailed engineering content in those than we saw in -- what I would be -- say is comparable would be the petrochemical complexes in both China and the Middle East but approaching the kind of content that you see in a refinery project.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then your FEED-to-EPC conversion rate is pretty darn good when it comes to downstream.
Do you expect that same sort of conversion rate on a couple of these large upstream FEEDs that you're working on? And is there any update on that $30 billion FEED number that you've given in the past? Well I think the $30 billion FEED number is still a good number and we're active on a fair amount of those projects.
I think that relative to our hit rate we -- assuming that we're performing well for our customer I think our hit rate's very well.
And so far we don't see any signs that we're not performing for our customer.
I think that the value proposition that we have is largely supported by the talents of our teams and we feel very good about our ability to staff multiple major programs around the globe including the $30 billion worth of work in the Gulf Coast.
I think the other point I'd make is in this period of time where mining has really grown it's allowed us to significantly grow our bandwidth from a management talent perspective.
So I feel very good about our ability to continue to grow and do multiple programs even more so than you saw in the refining sector in the last cycle.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could squeeze one more just regarding some of the scope expansions.
Do those tend to have a faster book-and-burn profile because a lot of your resources are already on site? And does that have any material impact on margin levels? No I would say not.
I mean as I mentioned in a previous question we kind of knew they were coming and kind of planned for them.
So I mean they're already planned in our revenue and profitability burn in the out quarters.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back to you Mr.
Seaton for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much operator.
And again I'd like to thank everybody for participating in our call today.
As I think you've heard we feel very good about where we are as a company with the performance we've had in the first half of 2012.
I think we began the year with a fair amount of economic and market uncertainty and I think we will all agree that broad sentiment in that fact has not improved much.
But despite continuing macro headwinds we're very positive about our progress in growing our company as it relates to our diversity as well as our global footprint and experience.
As I've said in the past I greatly appreciate your interest in our company and we look forward to continued growth as we go through this year and next.
So with that I'll end the call and wish everyone a good day.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fluor Corporation's Third Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 7 at the following telephone number (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 8348591 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thank you very much operator and welcome everyone to Fluor's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2 of the presentation.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of those risk factors in the company's Form 10-K which was filed on February 22 2012 and in our 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
So with that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken and good afternoon.
And thank you everyone for joining us.
Today we'll review our third quarter results and discuss guidance for the balance of this year as well as our initial guidance for '13.
But before we start I know the storm has probably impacted many people on the phone quite a bit.
Please note that you're in our thoughts and prayers and hope for a speedy recovery from what is a really really terrible storm.
To start I'd like to start on Slide 3 and start with the third quarter.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the quarter were $145 million or $0.86 per diluted share.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $278 million which compares to $236 million a year ago.
Our earnings results for the quarter were strong compared to last year but they were impacted by a lower-than-expected award fee on the LOGCAP IV project a higher-than-anticipated effective tax rate and foreign currency losses based on the U.S.
dollar.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter was $7.1 billion which is an increase of 18% over the $6 billion we reported a year ago.
Third quarter new awards were sizable at $6.3 billion.
Awards were very broad-based with $2 billion in Oil &amp; Gas awards $2 billion in Government $1.7 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and $581 million in Power.
Consolidated backlog declined for the quarter to just under $41 billion due mainly to the removal of 2 mining projects which totaled $2 billion.
Turning to Slide 4 Oil &amp; Gas new awards for the quarter included a propylene production facility for Dow Chemical in Texas and a carbon capture and storage project for Shell in Canada.
Following a successful FEED project Fluor was also awarded a contract for Phase 3 of the Malampaya Deep Water Gas-to-Power project in the Philippines.
Ending Oil &amp; Gas backlog is now at $19.2 billion and represents a 31% increase over last year.
We see continued strength in that market as evidenced by a very active front-end FEED project slate that continues to track a number of new prospects across the oil gas and petrochemical market globally.
While we expect the natural gas prices in the U.S.
remain attractive for petrochemical and other gas-related programs the sluggish economy and an uncertain regulatory environment could delay our clients' investments and decision timeline.
The Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment posted third quarter new awards of $1.7 billion including approximately $700 million for the I-95/395 managed toll lanes project in Virginia and a blood fractionation project in Georgia.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $16.2 billion which is down about -- down from about $19 billion last quarter.
This decline was driven by the recent softness in the mining new awards strong revenue burn on existing projects and the removal of 2 significant projects from backlog which we spoke of.
As you have all been hearing a number of mining companies are reducing their capital expenditures as a result of slowing demand for commodities.
While the near-term prospect lift -- list is shorter than expected just a few months ago we continue to view mining in metals as a significant long-term market in which Fluor will maintain its leadership position.
Switching to infrastructure business line demand for transportation projects remains solid and a number of bids have been submitted that could have a meaningful impact over the next several quarters.
I have just a brief comment with respect to the Greater Gabbard project.
Hearings on arbitration of our claims have been completed and we're awaiting the decision of the arbitrators.
Please turn to Slide 5.
Now the Government segment reported new awards $2 billion which compared to $1.7 billion last year.
Bookings in the quarter included LOGCAP IV task orders as well as annual funding amounts for our Department of Energy contracts at Savannah River and Portsmouth.
Ending backlog for the Government segment rose to $1.6 billion.
As mentioned the Government group's operating results were significantly impacted by a lower-than-expected award fee score which resulted in an adjustment of our fee assumption on the LOGCAP IV contract.
While the ratings we received from the U.S.
Army were still very good they were below our previous rating and based on the contract drove a disproportionate reduction in our award fee.
The Government segment continues to focus on existing programs and expanding its portfolio of services service-related work.
During the quarter the DOE exercised its option to extend our contract at the Savannah River site for an additional 38 months which takes our contract through September 2016.
With regard to services work a Fluor team has been selected by the U.S.
Army sustainment command to participate in the U.S.
Army's EAGLE Logistics program which allow -- will allow us to compete for future task orders.
Finally during October the Department of Defense selected another Fluor JV to perform base operation support at the Rock Island Arsenal in Illinois as well as 6 other locations in Illinois.
This is exactly the kind of growth opportunity that the group has been targeting.
Global Services segment booked $165 million of new awards.
We took its ending backlog to $1.8 billion.
They're pursuing a number of new long-term contracts with major industrial customers.
Power segment booked $581 million in new awards in the quarter including an award for the Phase I of 175-megawatt solar photovoltaic energy facility in California.
They also received a limited notice to proceed on Dominion Energy's combined-cycle facility in Virginia full notice to proceed as expected in the third quarter of 2013.
Backlog improved to $2.1 billion from $1.1 billion a year ago.
Power segment operating results included the cost associated with ongoing research development investment activities in NuScale.
While we had initially expect a decision on the FOA funding before the election it now appears unlikely.
We remain hopeful that the decision will be reached soon.
Before I turn the call over to Biggs I wanted to cover a few strategic actions that we have recently undertaken.
Please turn to Slide 6.
As we have discussed we're keenly interested in expanding our vertically-integrated service offering which we believe will be a key success factor in executing more construction projects on a direct-hire basis.
To this end we recently formed a joint venture with AG&amp;P in the Philippines which augments our capabilities in fabrication and modularization.
In terms of regional expansion AMECO our equipment company has acquired a company in Mozambique which expands our footprint in Africa and positions Fluor's overall support opportunities in Oil &amp; Gas segment and other markets in that rapidly growing region.
With that I'll turn it over for now to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance as well as the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David.
Good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation.
With regard to earnings results for the quarter I want to expand on David's earlier comments regarding unusual items.
Late in the quarter we received our work fee score on the LOGCAP IV contract which was slightly below our expectations that were established by our previous score.
Based on the structure of the contract a modestly lower score can dramatically affect our share of the available fee pool.
So even though the reduction in the score was slight the resulting impact from the third quarter was approximately $20 million or about $0.08 per share the majority of which is a catch-up effect recorded in the quarter.
The second item I want to comment on is the impact of foreign exchange which total just under $8 million in the third quarter or approximately $0.03 per share.
Without getting overly granular while the company has both natural hedges and financial hedging instruments movement in major currencies during the quarter can have an impact on the income statement.
Moving to Slide 8 Fluor's consolidated backlog was $40.8 billion which is down from $43 billion last quarter.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts and overall backlog was 14% at quarter end a slight increase from the prior quarter due to the booking of the I-95/395 road contract.
As we expected the geographic mix of the backlog is starting to shift with US-based backlog now at 25% of the portfolio which is up from 18% last quarter.
Moving to corporate items on Slide 9.
G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $41 million which is up from $37 million last year mainly due to the effect of a higher share price on stock-based compensation expenses.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 35% which was somewhat above our expectations for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was impacted by the payment of additional foreign taxes from the settlement on audit and a reassessment of certain tax exposures.
For the full year we continue to expect the tax rate to be in the low 30s.
Shifting to the balance sheet the consolidated cash and marketable securities balance totaled $2.8 billion at quarter end which is up about $300 million from the last quarter and even with a year ago.
Cash provided by operating activities was a strong $429 million during the quarter.
This positive result was driven by earnings sources as well as improvement in project working capital balances.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $68 million which compares with $79 million a year ago.
Most of our CapEx is directed towards equipment business line in our Global Services segment.
Through 9 months our CapEx is trending below last year.
During the quarter we repurchased over 600 000 shares for $31 million and paid out $27 million for our quarterly dividend.
Shares repurchased for the quarter were lower than planned due to the timing of cash flow receipts versus our window for buying shares.
We anticipate this year repurchases could increase in the fourth quarter as we look to buy shares on an opportunistic basis.
I will conclude my remarks by providing an update on our guidance for 2012 to 2013 which is on Slide 10.
We are raising the lower end of our EPS guidance for 2012 to a range of $3.60 to $3.80 per share from the previous range of $3.50 to $3.80 per share.
This new range includes a pretax gain of approximately $40 million related to the recently completed sale of our interest in Citylink in the U.K.
which will be included in our fourth quarter results.
For 2013 we're establishing our initial EPS guidance at a range of $3.85 to $4.35 per share reflecting the potential for growth in all business segments except industrial infrastructure which has experienced a slowing -- experiencing a slowing in new mining and metals awards as commodity demand weakens.
It also reflects a level of caution due to the economic and market uncertainties that we are seeing.
Our guidance for 2013 assumes that G&amp;A expense will be in the range of $160 million to $180 million and an effective tax rate of 32% to 35%.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David if you -- you talked about in the release and then the call about the uptake in Oil &amp; Gas and how it may not fully benefit financials until 2014.
Are you talking about backlog moving to the right potentially or do we still expect a lot of these or at least some of these oil &amp; Gas projects to be awarded next year specifically in the U.S.? Well I'm cautiously optimistic Andy.
I think -- when I look at where we are with our Oil &amp; Gas business I think we've made -- we've turned the corner.
And I really expect a pretty good ramp-up in project activity both in terms of backlog and earnings.
As I said in the prepared remarks my question is and we've been working on lots of projects in the Gulf Coast that hopefully as we move into next year they'll go into the EPC phase of the project but that assumes that you've got a supportive regulatory environment.
So I'm hedging my bet a little bit with regard to that.
The economics of the projects look good our relationships with the customers and moving them from FEED to EPC is very strong.
So I feel -- I'm pretty bullish about Oil &amp; Gas from a standpoint of backlog and earnings.
But I think the real ramp-up is probably latter half of next year and then obviously into '14 and beyond.
But I really think we're in a really good place right now looking at the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Let me stick with Oil &amp; Gas.
And if I asked you about the margins I mean you know what I'm going to ask you like they've ticked down a little bit sequentially.
We knew they weren't going to really go up in the second half of the year but I guess this -- you haven't done this kind of revenue for 3 years and you've got pretty low margins.
So is this just a mix issue again? And why isn't utilization helping at least a little bit here and how confident are you still in the improvement in '13? Well it is -- I think it is a mix issue.
And the leverage comment that you make is really attributable to when we go into the EPC phases of the projects even though I would say that some of the FEEDs that we're working are as large of FEEDs that we've ever worked on.
So there will be some leveraging as we get into late next year but that leverage calculation is really kind of a '14 phenomenon.
But I'll tell you I'm pretty bullish right now on our Oil &amp; Gas awards backlog and potential earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Biggs maybe just a clarification on the mining cancellations.
Was the majority in the Peru project or was it kind of half-and-half between Peru and Australia? Mostly Peru probably 2/3 Peru and 1/3 Australia.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is as you look at your 2013 outlook range at the bottom end are you building in some incremental cost share on mining projects that are in your backlog? Or is there assumption that those will likely go ahead and the incremental risk is more toward to prospects versus what's in your backlog? I think backlog is solid.
I think -- we've been pretty conservative in how we put things in and how we take things out.
So I don't think it's a backlog issue.
I think it's a softness relative to new awards for the rest -- last 2 months of this year and into next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is in regards to the Tappan Zee Bridge project.
I think as you've talk to the DOT recently it seems that you guys have been singled out as the only team to -- that has -- that is going to negotiate on the project.
It's a pretty significant project in many ways.
Would you talk about what it means for Fluor in terms of reputation as more of these alternate financing large projects go through and really what it could mean in terms of capacity bottlenecks as we start to see more of these projects ramp up in the U.S.? Well it wouldn't be appropriate for me to comment on Tappan Zee.
I mean it's an active procurement and I read the same things you read.
I think from a market perspective overall though I think you see the reports on the aging infrastructure in the United States.
I think that projects like the San Francisco Bay Bridge the Denver light rail projects in Virginia I think we've built up a really good rsum that puts us in a leadership position to capture a fair share of that infrastructure rebuild or newbuild.
So I think the guys have done a really good job to position for the future and I think we'll be a major player in these projects going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just got one last question and I'll hop back in the queue and that's with NuScale.
Clearly the DOE funding seems to be a little slow in coming out.
Any updates over there would be appreciated.
To be politically correct or lack thereof I think it's held up in the normal bureaucracy that we see relative to the FOA.
We're still continuing with our investments in the technology that we believe in for the future.
And we're going to invest in a prudent manner based on a schedule that makes sense.
And when we had delays in FOAs and things like that we just continue on and make sure that we're being prudent in the investment that we make.
And we'll go to George O'Leary of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question with the industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment and kind of recent incremental weakness in the mining sector.
Has your posture changed at all in terms of infrastructure projects being to offset that potential weakness in the mining segment? Can you talk about that even if just qualitatively how you guys are thinking about that segment overall? Well I think there's still -- I mean it's not a weak market.
I mean there's still a fair amount of backlog that are continuing to move.
I think if you've listened to the Barrick release there's actually growth on a project where they were taking over some new scope which is a good news scenario.
We've announced a couple of FEEDs on some other projects in Russia and otherwise.
So the industry is just I think taking a deep breath in the face of the economy that we all see.
And in the case of the 2 that we have taken out of backlog I wouldn't categorize them as being canceled.
I'd categorize them as being delayed beyond what we think is prudent to keep it in backlog.
So I think overall I would comment that even though we're seeing some softness there's still some bright spots in that market particularly with the projects we have in backlog.
Relative to what fills up what I mean I think -- we're very proud of the diverse portfolio that we've got whereas all-in-all with ups and downs we're showing growth double-digit growth in terms of EPS depending on where you choose to place your number.
And that's a testament to the portfolio.
We've enjoyed the mining boom.
We've taken advantage of that work and now we're turning the crank on E&amp;C and some other things Oil &amp; Gas and some other things that from a portfolio standpoint keep us in that northerly growth trajectory on the curve.
So I think this is just -- the way I look at it is even with the puts and takes and having an economic headwind we're showing continued growth year-over-year and we're pretty pleased with that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then maybe switching gears a little bit.
Are you guys seeing any incremental refining opportunities in the U.S.
just kind of given where crack spreads are we're seeing increasing light oil production specifically from shales in tandem with all the gas that we've seen online.
So where do you think...
We are seeing some FEED work in our refining segment which is pretty positive in North America and I think as well as we look outside the United States.
So it's coming back.
I think it's -- the projects might be a little bit smaller that we saw in the last wave but there's still a significant opportunity for us there based on the FEEDs that we're already doing.
And we'll go to Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on the guidance.
Can you just give us a sense of what your assumptions are on buybacks and the level of NuScale investment in the guidance for next year? Okay sure.
On share buyback we didn't assume any as I said in the comments to expect that pace to pick up somewhere in the fourth quarter but we don't layer it into any of the guidance from an EPS standpoint.
From a standpoint of NuScale this year expect supporting the FOA cost but not getting -- or the FOA activity but without getting an FOA award in we'll run at a $0.25 to $0.30 effect of our NuScale investment for this year.
Next year we would expect it to be roughly in line after getting the FOA awards so spending will go up it'll be offset by additional funding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then David which specific regulatory aspects are you most concerned about on the domestic Oil &amp; Gas project? Is it really just around the extent of gas exports we support versus how much we're going to be using for domestic manufacturing? Is that what needs to be worked out? You really want me to stick my finger in the eye of one of the regulators? No I mean all of these projects particularly in the Gulf Coast I mean there's obviously the EPA and those types of permits that typically either don't fit the timescale that we're looking at or delay it for some reason.
I don't think it has anything to do with the debate of whether the U.S.
should export gas or not.
It's all based on the typical project approvals.
Most of these projects are in states obviously Texas Louisiana and some other places that are looking at economic development and job growth.
So I think there's going to be some sufficient support there and hopefully support as we go towards the federal permits that are required.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's really just a permitting type issue? Right.
And we'll take a question from John Ellison of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Would you guys be able to discuss the deep water opportunities you're seeing in Fluor's role of an -- on an EPC basis? And if you're bidding on this work as part of the JV or consortium does it result in lower effective margins? No I wouldn't say it would actually lower margin on a JV basis.
We've chosen to work with others on deep water and offshore programs and we're going to continue to do that.
I think we're going to be able to compete not only with the offshore pieces of it but the components that make that up when I mention modular construction and fabrication.
And that's where we're going to play a big role in that marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And also has there been any change in the amount of I guess fixed price versus cost reimbursable work that you're currently bidding on? It's kind of a mixed bag.
I think we're seeing a little bit of an uptick in fixed price work.
Obviously most of infrastructure programs are fixed price.
Power is typically fixed price.
And we are seeing modestly so some interest from the Oil &amp; Gas guys relative to lump sum.
But again it's not going to move the needle that much in the grand scheme of things.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just one follow-up real quick.
Are you seeing any end markets where capacity is tightening or where you're -- you've been trying to push for higher prices? Well I think we're trying to make as much money as we can without damaging the relationships with our customers.
We haven't necessarily seen any pressure to move up.
We think we get what we deserve based on our calculations.
And -- but I do believe that margins are improving.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Dudas of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David when do you think the crank is going to get picked up on the power market? Well we're working on several front ends on gas.
I think we're still waiting on the regulatory side the emission side relative to the coal fleet.
We've got several projects that are pending.
On natural gas we're seeing a significant activity but I think that's predicated on need.
We are seeing the reserve margins drop to where they typically will pull the trigger.
But I think the big question mark is what do the generators have to do relative to whatever the environmental regs say on the existing fleet and then what impact does that have on new-generating capacity what fuel source would be.
I think that as we get into the back half of next year we're certainly hopeful and are planning on a fair amount of uptick in our power market.
But I think really a resurgence is probably into '14 before we see anything significant.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
My follow-up question David is as you -- as we look to maybe pushing things out '13 into '14 especially with Philippine and North America do you anticipate a pretty strong tight construction services market or an EPC market in the let's say second half '13 through '15 '16 time period given what you're seeing on the drawing board and what regulatory and other political issues come together to allow it to occur? That's a great question.
I think -- I'd look at it holistically and would suggest that there's been a lack of confidence over the last probably 2 years relative to a lot of capital spend.
That is now starting to create a backup or a huge slug of work coming at us.
I think we're seeing some of the supplier network tightening but it's tightening because of lack of performance on some of the projects that were taken in the last year.
So some of that supply network is challenged.
It may not frankly be around for us when we start this boom again.
So I think in general that slug of work has been pushed to the right and on the scale that just means there's going to be more of it.
So I think as we get into -- into late '13 early '14 you're going to see some tightening there.
With regard to labor that's always been a challenge and I think it's going to be an acute problem in the Gulf Coast.
We've done a lot to invest in the people that we're going to need both in terms of the engineering and project management types of folks.
But we're spending a lot of time and effort in building that craft capability again in the Gulf Coast because we're looking at direct hire on most of these projects.
And we'll go now to Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question.
So on the guidance if you exclude the gain you're expecting in the fourth quarter it looks like the fourth quarter earnings is a little bit lower than the Q3 it's probably actually the lowest of the year.
Is there anything to read into that as we kind of use that as a springboard into 2013? Is the -- are the pace of things kind of slowing down a little bit before they pick up again? Can you just comment on that? Well I think that the 2 big moving parts going into the fourth quarter are I'd just say that the gain on the CityLink sale for the full year we have the impact of the LOGCAP fee adjustment that we recorded this year.
It adds a little bit more in the fourth quarter about another $5 million of effect in the fourth quarter.
But the other drivers in the fourth quarter are the normal ramp-up in overheads that we see.
There's really nothing else that I would say approaches something that creates a different kind of run rate going into next year.
We should get back to the normal cyclical nature of things and have strong quarters going into first quarter of next year.
LLC</strong> Yes.
And just on buyback Biggs maybe this is for you again.
So you were light in -- as far as buyback allocation in Q3 where you're saying things will pick up in Q4 likely.
But you had a fairly I guess depressed stock price during the quarter.
I'm just curious what the mindset was why you were not more aggressive and why you tend to be more aggressive from here on out? Well if I could do it all over again and go back we probably would have purchased more in the third quarter.
But as we -- we track it against cash flow.
We've been pretty consistent in saying that we spend cash as it becomes available and that there is no greater use for it internally.
And as we were moving through the quarter cash wasn't generated at the rate it was later on and then we were pass the window period at which we could operate.
So we just weren't able to get that much done in the quarter based upon the timing of cash flow and the visibility that we had.
But we ended the quarter strong.
We have plenty of cash on the balance sheet.
We absolutely know that going into this open window period so we expect this point in time to be more active.
LLC</strong> Yes and if I could just sneak one more in maybe for David.
Just on -- in the Middle East we're seeing some projects it looks like they're starting to get off the ground particularly in Kuwait.
I'm just curious what the opportunities that you see in that region specifically primarily on the Oil &amp; Gas side over the next say 6 to 12 months.
Well I think that's a region that has pushed some projects out in several countries there that we were active and we're tracking pretty closely with a lot of them.
The -- Kuwait specifically you probably read the same things I did relative to their parliament being dissolved and the toils and tribulations that go with that.
They seem to still be on track for the fourth refinery as well as the clean fuels programs at the 2 refineries.
And we are looking at a couple of the packages on an EPC basis.
Saudi continues to be a great place for us.
The UAE I'm very bullish about the UAE Qatar in terms of Oil &amp; Gas and Infrastructure.
So I -- the Middle East is pretty special to me and I keep close tabs on it.
And it'll always be a growth engine for us.
And over to Jamie Cook of Crdit Suisse.
Actually this is Andrew Buscaglia on behalf of Jamie Cook.
So on -- quick question on competition.
I know you guys mentioned pricing environment a little bit.
But can you tell me more on where you're seeing competitively specifically I think you guys noted Asian competition potentially having some issues but what are your thoughts there? Well I mean competition is always fierce.
It don't matter whether it's a buyer's or seller's market: It's always fierce.
And we like to believe that it's the value proposition that we give that separates us.
And I think that that generates better margins.
I think that from a competition standpoint I mean I didn't really mention the Asians you did But I'll take your lead there.
A lot of them are very full with projects we're glad to have.
But on the other hand there's Asian contractors that we're partnering with that I think give us an advantage in the marketplace and we're very keen on those partnerships.
But I think like I said this is a very competitive marketplace and we tend to beat one another up quite a bit.
But I don't see any reason why in the near-term more because of the way we're doing our business and the value proposition that we give that we shouldn't improve our margins over time particularly in Oil &amp; Gas.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just my next question I know you guys -- there's a lot of discussion on mining.
But is there -- and specifically with cancellations but going -- looking into '13 is there still potential for any other large projects that you think -- that you're nervous about getting canceled or just your thoughts there in terms of sort of what's embedded in your mining outlook.
Not particularly worried about cancellations.
I think future awards obviously could be a problem.
But this is kind of interesting I mean it's always been when the commodity prices drop is when some of these programs get delayed or canceled.
We've seen iron ore drop obviously and it's very well-known that Outer Harbour Port Hedland project is postponed indefinitely but I do not think canceled.
But when you think about gold and you think about copper 2 commodities that we do a lot of work in those commodities haven't appreciably dropped to the levels where you see cancelations.
So as I said I think we're kind of seeing the mining companies take a deep breath.
But clearly as we come out of this economic mire those commodities are going to be required for economic growth and they're going to have to turn the crank back on once those signals are there and seen as solid signals.
And now to Alex Rygiel of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> David can you expand a little bit more upon exactly why the LOGCAP IV fee was a little bit lower than expected? And what is included in your guidance for the next 12 months? Well I think Biggs talked about it.
And Biggs help me here if you feel required.
We -- basically at the end of the quarter the award fee board convened and gave us our award score which gave us a lower-than-expected score and that relates into a pretty dramatic declining scale in fee available to us.
So the charge -- or not the charge the adjustment that we made is for previous quarters plus this quarter.
So as Biggs said you can't take that amount and multiply it times $0.25 and get to a run rate.
And I don't think I'd want to get into what we've put into -- into individual projects relative to the overall portfolio.
But clearly we're less optimistic than we were because we had to adjust as we pulled together the guidance for '13.
Biggs I don't know if you want to add anything else? Well maybe to put the -- to put it in perspective a little bit.
It was about a 7% decline in our score resulting in about a 40% decline in the amount of fee pool that was available.
So the slope of funding at the pool is pretty severe for just small changes in the score and in the territory which we're operating in.
So it really wasn't a bad score just a slight change to it and but has a big effect on the funding of the pool.
The -- for the rest of this year we're not projecting any change.
We don't receive another score don't expect one between now and the end of the year.
So don't expect any change to be pretty clear on that with respect to this year's outlook.
Obviously our objective is to do better next year.
But as David said it doesn't make sense to put a lot of line item guidance project by project out there.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything that's structurally changed with regards to that contract as it relates to services or complexity of the environment that might have indefinitely kind of lowered the profitability of that opportunity? No none whatsoever.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Wittmann Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> David just kind of more broadly on Federal just a step back here.
Obviously LOGCAP has been a really big significant portion of your federal business.
But you mentioned a couple of wins in your script that we saw.
Can you just talk about what else you're kind of looking at today and what your overall outlook for Federal could be as we head into next year? I know you said top line up but is there margin opportunity there as well? I mean just give us some color as we head into the election next week actually.
I don't even want to go there.
Oh the election next week I do want to go to so -- I've already voted and I hope all of you have.
I think with regard to LOGCAP we don't anticipate any change in the current LOGCAP contract for next year.
With troop withdrawal in '14 we'll probably see a little bit of an uptick before we see a decline.
In the meantime we're focused on the services area in boss -- what we call -- they call boss contracts or base operating support contracts.
As I said we won Rock Island we won Jacksonville in the previous quarter.
We're pursuing several of those.
In addition there's a couple of procurements right now ongoing in the DOE and we feel like we're in pretty good position to pick up some of those.
So I think all-in-all the government market is a good solid business for us.
But clearly I mean after '14 without LOGCAP it's a little bit hard to predict.
But it's a solid base business and we get a good return on our investment there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just 2 quick ones for Biggs.
Tax rate up next year.
Is that just doing more work domestically or is there something more fundamental that's leading into the increased tax rate expectation? No I don't think that there's any messaging in there.
We gave a range.
I think the range is still -- it overlaps what we have for this year.
I think that -- we'd like to drive it down.
We have some strategies to try to drive down but we're not going to go and count on that at this point in the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the FX the $0.03.
Is that $0.03 versus your prior expectations? Is that $0.03 year-over-year? I'm just trying to understand how this callout of FX is maybe different from maybe in terms of impact.
Sure.
Well basically there was no hit from FX to the first 2 quarters of the year.
It was pretty much a wash.
So this quarter stands out over the course of this year in that there was this hit.
And really it's occasionally driven by the devaluation of the dollar that occurred over the quarter which was pretty sharp.
June 30 was relatively a high point for it and then it fell over the quarter and had a negative effect on the extent that we're holding dollars around the world.
So I think this was an unusual event.
I certainly don't want it to recur.
I don't think there's any reason why it should.
And next to Will Gabrielski of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So just in terms of '14 -- or excuse me '13 guidance you guys are going to accrue next year at the current score you got under LOGCAP rate and that's embedded in the guidance? As we said we really didn't want to get into individual projects and what makes up our guidance.
So I really wouldn't want to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand that.
Can you provide the score you received versus what you were accruing at? I'd prefer not to do that either.
Research Division</strong> No problem.
I wish I could be more accommodating.
To be clear it was -- really it's a very small change in the raw score so it doesn't help you a lot anyway.
It's just a very small change but it has a big effect.
Research Division</strong> No I understand that.
I think just all of us from covering KBR for years and watching the way the LOGCAP score can impact the accruals and then the true-up you get when you get a new score.
I was just wondering if your guidance next year assumes an improvement and you would be accruing at a higher rate or not.
I'd rather not say.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
On the Oil &amp; Gas market the 3 4 [ph] I'm just wondering is -- the bookings you saw in Q3 is there a better mix in that downstream-oriented work where there's more engineering hours involved maybe than we've seen on the work you've booked over the last 2 or 3 years including last quarter which had a lot of big dollars associated with it but not necessarily a lot of dollars where you're earning a margin on it? Is that kind of the issue? Well as we've said in the past it's really about margin dollars not margin percentage.
But just from a color standpoint we've got a couple of programs in there that has significant CFM the project one of the projects in Canada specifically where we're burning at a higher rate today than we have been.
And I think the projects that were coming in the backlog are more EPC-type projects with not the same impact on CFM.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
On NuScale I think you said $0.25 to $0.30 was the impact now in 2012 is that correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> So that's a little bit higher maybe than I saw a quarter ago.
And I was just wondering a what's driving that? And then b if you were to be successful in the FOA what would be the strategy with NuScale after that? Would you look to monetize it? Would you look to partner with somebody from manufacturing? Would there be something else involved beyond just getting the R&amp;D grant from the government and then moving forward and progressing on a stand-alone basis? On the first question it is a little higher.
It's been driven by the need to support an FOA schedule and FOA activity.
But unfortunately without the benefit of having the award benefit this year.
So even if the award occurs here in the next few weeks it wouldn't be definitized and therefore it wouldn't create a flow of funds and then offset the expense line until next year.
So it's a combination of those things which cause the number to be a little bit higher.
We certainly kept that in mind in terms of managing the spend but it has driven it up a little bit.
In terms of strategy I don't know David...
In terms of strategy I mean we're continuing to have dialogue with manufacturers and other potential investors.
I think what's happened with the delay of the FOA is some of those folks were saying Well why don't we just wait and see what happens.
The FOA at least in terms of what we were told should have been awarded in August and then September and then October.
And now here we are on November 1.
So I think it's stuck in a do loop somewhere in Washington but it doesn't change our opinion of the technology or its application nor does it I think lessen the interest in NuScale from outside parties that we would expect to bring in as partners.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then lastly you mentioned U.S.
refining as a market where you're seeing some activity.
And I'm just wondering for background what -- there was a big refinery upgrade cycle so we could go ahead and process Canadian crude as heavy crude and now we're looking at light crude coming out of the shale formations which was brought up earlier.
So what would be the types of project entail maybe in terms of scope or dollars or what would you be looking at to maybe retrofit those refineries to be more efficient at processing light crude out of the shale? Well I mean I think they're ready for a crude mix including heavy crudes.
The project specifically that upgraded to give them that balance are the ones that put in the cokers to be able to deal with that heavier crude.
But I don't think it necessarily changed their ability to refine the lights.
I think you're seeing a rationalization of the market and where those product slates are.
So you're going to see process units that help them get to a specialty market.
You're going to see some capacity increases when it comes to diesel which really hasn't -- we really haven't done a lot of work on.
And I think you're going to see some fair amount of compliance projects that not only improve the environmental outputs but also incrementally improve capacities.
And we'll go to John Rogers D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> David I just want to go back to one of your comments about forward or backward integrating I guess in terms of the -- or vertically integrated I guess was your term.
How far away are you from making a major acquisition or investment in there? Well I think the beauty is is we've always had that capability and it doesn't take a massive investment for us to have that capability.
That's part of the strength and breadth of the company to begin with.
So incrementally things like AG&amp;P in the Philippines is a very nominal immaterial amount from an investment standpoint that projects our capability greatly in that fabricated module market.
There are others that we're looking at that I would not like to mention but we're actively looking at improving that skill set.
From a construction standpoint it's taking advantage of the skills and capabilities of our superintendent network that we enjoy now and frankly giving them more surety and long-term employment which we are an employer of choice in that market and it allows us to provide that stability.
So I think there's a fair amount of training that's going to have to take place for that next generation of construction worker.
And again that's something that's within our skill set and something we've done quite successfully over the history of our company.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And separately just on the I&amp;I business the margins that you saw in the current quarter and this may be in the Q but were there some closeouts or anything that elevated those margins? Because I just assumed with the mining mix that those continue to drift lower and then reverse as that changes maybe next year.
Yes we had -- the financial close on I-95 project gave us a little bit of an uplift there and their general projects performed well so it was a good quarter for them.
And we'll take a question from Robert Connors of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking at that despite the EPS it looks like the operating cash flow was pretty strong in the quarter.
Just wondering what drove that.
Was it advance billings or collections of some receivables out there? Well I think you're right.
Cash flow was good for the quarter from operations.
It was driven by earnings but as noted improvement in working capital.
It had gone the other way for the first 2 quarters so it was very satisfying to see it improve here in the third.
And it kind of goes back to my comment earlier about conservatism going in the quarter about use of cash.
It obviously turned during the course of the quarter and we did have the good cash production that we of course wanted.
From the standpoint of individual drivers I think it's more the absence of some of the ones which had held it back in the first 2 quarters.
We commented previously on last quarter call that we had a big advance that we were burning off and that had been a use of cash.
And we had some projects that we'd been winding down that were using cash.
And so we'll clear a runway in the fourth quarter on those and had a good performance overall.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just regarding the corporate G&amp;A.
It seems for 2013 it looks like it's going to be relatively flat year-over-year.
Is that a factor of some cost-reduction initiatives as maybe I&amp;I scales down or is it more so going to be tied to the top line? No I think we've been very active in controlling our costs and I think we've done a really good job of making sure that people are spending overhead dollars like it's their own money.
So I think we've seen good behavioral change in the organization that I think is sustainable which helps us longer term.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then David if I could sort of ask the Oil &amp; Gas backlog question I guess in a little bit of a different way though more qualitatively is that if you were to look at not necessarily the dollars but really the man-hours and backlog as you go into 2013 can you just I guess qualitatively sort of describe is it materially up versus where you were at this point about to enter 2012 as far as man-hours? I think it will be materially up if you take January '13 versus January '12.
We're really starting to build some power there and then the EPC phases will follow.
At this time I will turn things back over to Mr.
Seaton for any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you operator.
And I really appreciate everyone participating on the call this afternoon.
To kind of follow on to some of the last questions I want to reiterate a couple of points that we've made today.
Number one we're on track for 2012 and we expect to perform towards the higher end of our original guidance range for the year.
And we continue to track a robust list of opportunities in oil and gas and petrochemicals as well as infrastructure.
However we think it appropriate to use a little bit of caution in establishing our guidance for '13 because of the continued weak global economy and the deferral of some of the major mining programs.
From a midpoint of our guidance for this year to a midpoint of our guidance for '13 we're projecting a growth in double digits 10% which I think seems very reasonable in this environment.
With that we greatly appreciate your interest in Fluor and we hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fluor Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern time on February 26 at the following telephone number: (888) 203-1112.
The pass code of 9088046 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's Fourth Quarter and 2012 Year End Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-K which was also filed earlier today.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'll apologize ahead of time for any sniffles or coughs that occur during my answers or prepared remarks.
I'm fighting a little bit of a cold here.
But as Ken said today we want to review our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results and discuss our outlook for 2013.
If you'll turn to Slide 3 I'd like to cover the 2012 full year performance.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the year were $456 million or $2.71 per diluted share which compares to $594 million or $3.40 per share in 2011.
Our financial results for 2012 were impacted by the unexpected adverse arbitration decision on the Greater Gabbard claim which we announced back in November.
After a thorough evaluation of the arbiter's decision we booked a pretax charge of $416 million or $1.57 per diluted share on an after-tax basis.
Excluding this charge net earnings attributable to Fluor for 2012 would have been $4.28 per diluted share.
Segment profits results for 2012 reflected strong double-digit growth in Oil &amp; Gas and Global Services with strength in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure notwithstanding the Greater Gabbard arbitration decision.
Fluor delivered in that case a quality project which is generating electricity at a rate that the client has said is ahead of their own expectations.
And as you're aware we expect arbitration proceedings in the client's counterclaim to commence in the spring.
Consolidated revenue for the year was a record $27.6 billion representing an 18% increase over last year due in part to strong growth in Oil &amp; Gas segment as well as Mining &amp; Metals business lines.
New awards for 2012 were strong at $27.1 billion including $12.6 billion in Oil &amp; Gas and $9.5 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
Consolidated backlog at year end was $38.2 billion which compares to $39.5 billion a year ago.
In addition we have seen improvement in the margin of our backlog over the last several quarters.
Now please turn to Slide 4.
Oil &amp; Gas awards in the quarter include a petrochemical facility for BASF in Europe and Asia and a petrochemical facility for Braskem in Mexico.
Oil &amp; Gas backlog ended the year at $18.2 billion which represents a 21% increase over a year ago.
Now the Oil &amp; Gas group continues to see strong demand for front-end engineering contracts especially for petrochemical facilities.
As we move through 2013 we expect a balanced slate of new awards with major prospects across upstream downstream and chemical market -- petrochemical markets.
The Industrial &amp; Infrastructure grew the backlog.
At the end of the year it was $15.5 billion which is down from $20 billion a year ago.
This decline was driven by significant progress on existing mining projects coupled with the cancellation of 2 mining projects in the third quarter of last year that totaled $2 billion.
Fourth quarter new awards were $3 billion including significant additional scope on the Pascua-Lama copper mining project in Chile and Argentina for Barrick Gold.
The I&amp;I group also booked a program management contract for Ma'aden's large new phosphate complex in Saudi Arabia.
Within the infrastructure business line demand for large transportation projects remain solid and the fourth quarter was a great indicator of how strong this market is expected to be for Fluor.
In November we were selected as the EPC contractor for the Horseshoe interchange project in downtown Dallas.
In December the New York Department of Transportation selected a Fluor-led team to build the Tappan Zee Bridge north of Manhattan.
We expect to book Fluor share of these 2 projects totaling approximately $1.7 billion into backlog in the first quarter of this year.
Turning to Slide 5.
New awards for the Government group in the fourth quarter were modest due to the timing of the LOGCAP IV task order awards.
The group expects that task order awards under this contract will remain strong through 2013.
Ending backlog for the Government segment was $978 million which compares with $1.1 billion a year ago.
Moving to Global Services.
The segment booked $211 million in new awards during the quarter including maintenance agreements for major chemical mining and steel production clients.
Ending backlog was $1.7 billion.
They are beginning to see modest improvements in the U.S.
economic picture as they pursue new long-term contracts with major industrial customers.
Power segment new awards for the fourth quarter were modest at just under $100 million and ending backlog at $1.9 billion.
The group is currently working on a number of gas-fired and solar projects in addition to maintaining power facilities across the United States.
Looking at 2013 the group expects opportunities for new gas-fired plants alternative energy including solar as well as plant betterment programs.
With that I'll now turn it over to Biggs to review some of the details of the operating performance and the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 6 of the presentation.
I want to start by commenting on our performance for the fourth quarter.
Revenue in the fourth quarter was up over 12% from a year ago to $7 billion mainly driven by significant growth in the Oil &amp; Gas segment.
Regarding our earnings results for the quarter there are obviously a number of moving parts some of which were considered in our guidance and some that were not.
So I think it would be helpful to summarize them for you.
To do that please turn to Slide 7.
The as reported EPS for the fourth quarter was a loss of $0.03 per share.
The Greater Gabbard charge was a negative impact of $1.61 per share which was not included in our guidance or in current analysts' consensus estimates.
The fourth quarter benefited from several positive items the first of which was the sale of our equity interest in a telecommunications joint venture in the U.K.
which yielded a $43 million pretax gain or approximately $0.17 per share benefit in the quarter.
We talked about this in our last call and it was included in our guidance.
Next was a renegotiation of the terms of our LOGCAP IV contract to a fixed fee arrangement.
You'll recall that in the third quarter the Government group's operating results were significantly impacted by a lower-than-expected LOGCAP award fee score which resulted in a downward revision of our fee assumption for the year.
During the fourth quarter we reached an agreement with the client to change the contract from an at-risk award fee to a fixed fee.
This resulted in a $17 million improvement in the quarter or approximately $0.07 per share that was not in our guidance for 2012.
Furthermore it should add predictability to our fee recognition in 2013 and beyond.
Finally the lower-than-expected tax rate in the fourth quarter includes the release of previously unrecognized tax benefits and a net reduction of tax reserves totaling $43 million reflecting the favorable resolution of a number of items.
Lower tax rate generated a benefit of about $0.26 per share in the fourth quarter which is about double the amount we expected.
After considering all of these puts and takes we posted a strong underlying fourth quarter results in Oil &amp; Gas Global Services and I&amp;I.
We also reduced G&amp;A expenses in the quarter.
Moving to Slide 8.
New awards for the fourth quarter were $5.1 billion including $3 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure awards and $1.7 billion in Oil &amp; Gas awards.
Fluor's consolidated backlog at year end was $38.2 billion which is down modestly from $40.8 billion last quarter as revenue burn outpaced new awards of $5.1 billion in the quarter.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog was 15% at quarter end and the mix by geography held steady at 25% U.S.
and 75% non-U.S.
Moving to corporate items on Slide 9.
G&amp;A expense for the fourth quarter was $41 million below the $61 million reported a year ago due to a number of contributing factors but primarily due to improvements in foreign currency positions and lower executive bonuses.
The full year tax rate of 22% was below our original estimates due to a number of favorable contributors that I've already reviewed.
Shifting to the balance sheet.
Fluor's financial condition remains very strong with cash plus current and non-current marketable securities totaling $2.6 billion.
This compares with the balance of $2.8 billion a year ago.
During 2012 the company generated $628 million in cash flow from operating activities repurchased $389 million worth of Fluor shares including $225 million during the fourth quarter and paid out a total of $129 million in dividends.
Finally at our most recent meeting Fluor's board approved an $8 million -- 8 million share increase in the company's share repurchase program bringing the total number of shares available for repurchase to 11.8 million shares.
I will conclude my remarks by providing an update in our guidance for 2013 which is on Slide 10.
In 2013 we remain encouraged by the opportunities across our diverse end markets and are maintaining our EPS guidance at the previously established range of $3.85 to $4.35 per share.
Consistent with how we expect Oil &amp; Gas revenue and margins to progress we expect our quarterly earnings to grow as we go through the year as well.
We have included R&amp;D expenses that equate to approximately $0.20 per share for NuScale in 2013.
In addition our guidance assumes G&amp;A expense of approximately $165 million to $175 million and an effective tax rate of 33% to 35%.
We expect capital expenditures of approximately $350 million.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
And David you brought it on yourself.
You said that margins and backlog had improved.
So can you talk about specifically what you're seeing in Oil &amp; Gas? As some of your peers have come out and have talked about capacity tightening in particular in the U.S.
Gulf Coast if you're seeing any of that and what the impact implications are for margins in the construction market longer term? And then you also said awards would be more it sounded like balanced throughout the year relative to before I think it was more back-end loaded so you sound a little more constructive there.
And last ex the noise in I&amp;I your margins were really good at 5% -- 5.1% so what drove that? And is that a function of some of these mining projects getting closer to completion? No well I threw you a bone there on the margin question and I'll answer that and kind of where I think the markets are headed and I'll probably answer some of the questions for the others.
And I'll ask Biggs to talk a little bit about the I&amp;I margins specifically.
We are seeing I think a pretty strong opportunity list within Oil &amp; Gas.
And it is very diverse both in terms of market and geography.
We've been very successful in obtaining the front-end design on a number of programs.
And assuming that the regulatory environment is possible -- is positive it should be balanced as we go through the year but I still think the significant EPC awards are back half of this year and into '14.
So I think we've got the opportunity I believe just from the sheer amount of work that's coming to grow past where we were in the refining boom as we get into '14.
Now we have seen improvement in margin in our backlog which is a good indicator of obviously future earnings.
And that's a function of I think the value proposition that we hold with our customers.
But I think we are seeing a little bit of tightening but more in terms of making sure that the operators have access to the teams that they want which does kind of look a little bit like the '07 '08 kind of time frame where they're making sure they've got the project teams kind of committed to their long-term programs.
And with that it allows us to enjoy a little bit better margin.
So I think the message is longer -- over the last half of this year and into '14 we've got a pretty good growth story in Oil &amp; Gas.
We've already seen improving margins in our backlog and we continue to see that continue as we go through '13 which obviously results to better margin as we get into the back half of '13 and into '14.
Biggs do you want to mention or comment on the I&amp;I? Sure.
And I'm not sure if you're asking broadly about margins to I&amp;I I'll try to address them both.
The things that were already pointed out with respect to what affected margins in the quarter included the renegotiation of LOGCAP contract in the federal government group.
And then within I&amp;I the sale of the equity interest and the $43 million gain on that certainly had a positive impact on margin.
Beyond that there are some other favorable items most notably good performance on infrastructure projects within I&amp;I.
So underlying very good performance and a couple other things which weren't anticipated or which would cause little bit of an uptick in the form of the U.K.
sale and the LOGCAP...
Research Division</strong> But Biggs are I&amp;I margin is now structurally higher just because as we were getting to the latter end of some of these projects because ex Gabbard and the gain your margin was like 5%.
I haven't seen a margin in I&amp;I like that in a while.
And I know you can't straightline it but is it -- are we now more in the mid-4s or low 4s? How do we think about that? Well I don't know the -- I want to get to the point of giving the line item margin -- margin guidance for I&amp;I.
But as we said for quite a while as mining goes down that's lower margin activity and as the infrastructure business grows that's higher margin activity.
So you would expect I&amp;I margins on that basis to be migrating upwards over time.
We'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Alan Fleming standing in for Andy.
Wanted to touch on the I&amp;I revenue this quarter.
It was down a bit sequentially.
How should we think about that going forward? And should we be concerned about a faster decline in mining-related revenues? No I don't think so.
I think -- we announced the Pascua-Lama additional scope which is certainly a big part of that.
I think we saw mining over the last probably 3 quarters kind of take a breath.
And you also saw the changes in management on basically every senior mining house around the globe where those management -- new management teams are going to take a little bit of time to prioritize their capital requirements.
We haven't seen any of the things that we're looking at cancel but I think they may move a quarter just because of new management teams.
So I think that has an impact on backlog and revenue.
At the same point we're starting to front end on some pretty interesting programs in I&amp;I.
And we're on the very beginning pieces of things like Tappan Zee and the like.
So I think we're kind of at a transition point in I&amp;I where we're seeing the major programs kind of curtailed a little bit for the short term.
At the same time we're seeing some of the newer things come in.
And I think that also lends itself to the margin question that Jamie asked where we're working off some lower margin and putting in its place different kinds of projects at a higher margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I could switch gears and ask you about NuScale and get some updated thoughts on that.
If I'm correct it looks like you did scale back your guidance for R&amp;D related NuScale expense in the outlook this quarter.
So how should we read that? Well I still have great faith in the technology.
I think it's part of the energy mix.
Obviously we're disappointed in the fact that the Department of Energy failed to do what they said they were going to do relative to FOA.
But needless to say we're still bullish on the technology.
However we've taken some action to make sure that we're being prudent.
As you saw I asked John Hopkins to go take that job.
He was a senior executive with Fluor who was retiring because we needed to make sure we had a strong management team to look at how they were spending the money and where they were headed.
I'm happy to report that John has made some changes has lowered the overhead associated with the current day-to-day operation.
He is very keenly focused on bringing in additional investors and that looks very positive in the very short term.
But in our planning obviously we've got a plan based on not having any additional investors.
And that's why we've got the $0.20.
But I think the lowering of that frankly is in looking at a different execution program relative to getting this technology to the NRC for approval.
I feel good about where we are.
I feel good about the changes that have been made.
And we're just going to be very prudent in how we go forward.
One of the things within the FOA that doesn't get a lot of publicity is the fact that within that FOA there is a requirement around the spend and the amount of money you have to spend to show progress for the government to qualify for the FOA funding.
And without that we've got an ability to turn it down a little bit until we're a little bit further down the road.
And we feel comfortable with where the technology is.
So to David's point before we -- in our guidance we'd assume that our gross spending went up and got offset by funding from FOA.
And that net number was the $0.20 per share we gave previously.
Now without FOA funding we're still at $0.20 per share by taking down the total spend number.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear next from Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I got a few minutes to read your 10-K.
And it looked like last year 63% of your year-end backlog was to be recognized in 2012 which was about $25 billion.
And this year you're saying about 55% of your year-end backlog is going to be recognized in 2013.
So that sort of suggests that you're expecting to burn about 16% less or so year-over-year.
I know you don't give revenue guidance but should we be thinking that possibly revenue is flat to down here in 2013? Or are you seeing maybe a shift mix towards faster burn projects that just haven't come through yet? Well I wouldn't and I don't think your reading of it is consistent with what we see.
I think there is a little bit of a mix change.
I mean just look at Oil &amp; Gas where we've got a tremendous amount of front-end work which is obviously quick book to burn low revenue higher-margin types of programs that are obviously the precursor to the EPC projects coming into backlog.
So I don't -- I mean I understand what the case says but I wouldn't necessarily agree with your assumption there.
We would expect revenue growth in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick follow-up.
If we back out a lot of these sort of one-time items it looks like $1.58 was really adjusted down to about $1.08 which was right on the mark and right in -- within your guidance for the full year of get's you to $3.78.
But you did previously have guidance that had a range as high as $3.90.
Was there anything in the fourth quarter that maybe seemed to fall a little bit short or was everything for the most part right on the mark? We were right on the mark.
Yes I'll just add in.
You have to maybe -- you have to listen very carefully.
But on the tax we did assume we were going to get a tax pickup.
We just had a bigger one than we anticipated.
So versus our guidance I would not have backed out the entire tax benefit maybe half of it.
And we'll hear next hear from UBS and Steven Fisher.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on Alan's question earlier.
Your I&amp;I book to bill was positive in the quarter and you've got those 2 bookings coming up in the first quarter but I know it's generally going to be a little bit lumpy.
But I'm curious if you have any visibility as to when you think the book-to-bill in the I&amp;I segment could kind of sustainably reach positive territory? Well I think it -- I'd answer it 2 ways.
I think we are seeing as we get in through this year additional mining opportunities which will pick up.
And then there's a fair amount of infrastructure programs that will be bid during the year with closing schedules in the -- kind of towards the end of the year fourth quarter if not first quarter of '14.
So I think it's probably going to -- it's going to be as you said lumpy until we get towards the back end of the year.
We could see some further decline early this year but not markedly so.
And I think we'll -- steady as she goes within I&amp;I.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another follow-up.
I think you mentioned that there were some potential buyers in the short term on NuScale.
Did I hear that correctly? Yes investors.
Research Division</strong> Investors okay.
So does that mean that there could be a sell-down in your stake before any next FOA? Could be.
It only [ph] depends on what the investors want to see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if that would be the case then presumably your $0.20 should be something lower than that? Correct.
We'll hear next from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just hitting on I&amp;I one more time.
Just on the backlog so it looks like you were down I think around $750 million sequentially.
You guys had a huge order quarter.
You guys burned what $2.8 billion of revenue.
I don't know why backlog actually would have been down.
Was there something that came out of backlog that we should be thinking about there? Yes primarily there was a downward adjustment for some customer-furnished materials being taken out of scope.
LLC</strong> Customer-furnished material okay.
And that was the primary driver.
I mean there was a number of things going on the biggest single one would have been that.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And just touching on the U.S.
market so it does sound like things -- like you were saying tightening a little bit.
People want to get in line with the 18%.
Just curious as far as your outlook for -- in regards to labor capacity in the market do you see that as being an issue and an impediment to some of these projects getting [ph] off the ground? Or is there going to be enough -- the ability to bring more laborers in to execute these projects as being planned? Maybe you could just comment on that.
Yes I think it's a good question.
If you think about the professional staffs the project management people engineering and the like we feel pretty good about where we stand in being able to increase that capacity pretty significantly over the short term based on when these projects actually get their sanctioning.
So we feel very good about our ability to kind of turn that crank and add folks.
I think that the challenge is going to be in the craft.
And we are seeing a tightening in that market that's driven primarily by retirements from the industry an aging workforce and fewer people coming into the market.
Now we've already started recreating our training centers in the Gulf Coast.
We have a great following of construction management superintendent kinds of resources and with that brings the best craft.
And I mean I feel very good that that we'll be able to satisfy our needs because I do believe we're one of the if not the employer of choice both in terms of engineering but also of craft employees.
So I do see a tightening which I think will manifest itself in increased wage rates.
And I think we'll have issues early on in this next boom which I do think it's a boom with productivity in the early stages.
But that's why we're spending so much attention on training and vetting these folks and having the right certifications for their skill sets.
We'll hear next from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is as you folks start to see some of these larger bookings potentially coming in on the Oil &amp; Gas side you mentioned they're back-end loaded this year and more into 2014.
So as you look at your margin trajectory within Oil &amp; Gas and when it starts to sustainably grow above that 4% mark should we expect that's possible this year? Or is that something -- should we be looking at this as being more of a transitional year for those margins? Did Jamie put you up to that question? Research Division</strong> No no.
But I am supposed to...
I'm kidding you Tahira I'm kidding you.
I wouldn't venture a comment on when the margin would eclipse that 4% mark.
I would suggest that we're driving hard to eclipse that number as we get through this year.
We are seeing a marked improvement in those opportunities partially because of the scope that we're taking on and the types of projects that fit our capability the best.
I think Peter Oosterveer and his team have done a very good job in securing just about everything we were really chasing in some form or fashion.
And in that I think you're going to see a continued improvement in margin.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then my second question is maybe tied to what you were asked earlier.
If you look back to your Analyst Day and the strategy laid out last year you were hoping to self-perform more of the work and capture more of the margin.
As you look at the U.S.
market and given the prospects of high-end labor cost craft labor costs going forward how do you assess that risk? Has anything changed in terms of how much self-performed risk you're willing to take? No we're right on target.
As I mentioned you see -- you will see some escalation in rate and potentially degradation in productivity.
But we know how to deal with that both in terms of how we contract as well as in terms of how we manage our resources.
There's a lot of contracts that we've done and Power is an example where we've kind of carved out the wage rate issue.
And we're looking at models that allow us to share that risk with our customer.
We will do some of these programs on a fixed-price basis but we're already down the road on increasing that craft performance or craft amount and understanding what that performance is.
And we feel very comfortable about where we are in terms of being able to manage effectively the craft risk both in terms of wage rate as well as productivity.
We'll hear our next question from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David could you calibrate for us the amount of FEED work that you are working on and bidding currently in 2013 versus what you worked and bid on versus -- in 2012? Oh it's much more than 2012 both in terms of where we are in the execution of the FEEDs that we brought in in 2012 as well as the number of new FEEDs that were either negotiations on or in a bidding circumstance with.
I think that it's got the opportunity to eclipse the amount of FEED work we did in the 2007 2008 time frame.
Research Division</strong> And that should last into 2014 I guess if the cycle works out as you think? Yes I mean I think those are going to translate into EPC awards as we get towards the back half of this year and into '14.
But these projects are 36- 48-month kinds of programs and in some cases even longer.
So the earnings tail goes into '17 '18 on many of these programs.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up David is moving away but from the U.S.
which is quite a bit of interest from investors and such how does the rest of the world look some of your opportunities in Middle East Southeast Asia? Is Australia going through a major pause? Do you see Australia getting things settled if the taxes and the currency issues kind of working its [ph] way out later into the year? Just a sense of how the rest of the world looks and how it's going to impact [indiscernible] who believe they're going to grow business this year? I mean obviously with 75% our business outside the United States we've continued to grow outside.
And it's kind of across the board.
I mean infrastructure in the Middle East which is kind of new phosphate mining.
So we've been able to diversify geographically within the -- excuse me diversify from an industry perspective geographically if that makes sense.
So we've been able to take more projects across the board than I think in our history which bodes well for I think kind of the sustainable growth model that I think we're in the middle of.
The Middle East is obviously a growth area for us.
There has been kind of a lull in bidding but it's going to pick up as we go through this year.
Southeast Asia and China are continuing to be positives for us.
Australia I wouldn't say that everybody took a breath.
I think BHP was kind of holding off on outer harbor it was such a big program that it looked like Australia was in decline but I don't think so looking at what we're doing with the Oil &amp; Gas guys as well as other mining companies.
And BHP has got signs that restarting some of those programs in the [ph] too distant future.
Canada is still a big place.
A lot of opportunity there in terms of oil sands pipelines.
We feel good about our position there.
We feel good about our position in LNG now with the win in Mozambique for Anadarko and what that -- what does for our ability to compete in that market.
So I mean it -- I feel very bullish about things outside the United States.
And I think the only limiting factor within the United States is what the regulatory environment is going to be.
But I think we're poised to significantly increase the jobs that we would create.
And I don't think anybody is going to try to stand in the way of that particularly when most of these programs that we're working on in the Gulf Coast are on existing facilities that are already permitted for that purpose.
We'll hear our next question from Andrew Wittman with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just dig in a little bit on the margins on the quarter.
Really starting with the federal obviously kind of restructured the LOGCAP benefited the quarter.
I'm kind of picturing that's a reversal of what happened in the third quarter kind of offsetting.
But on a go-forward basis your federal business has kind of been a mid-4 type margin business.
Is that kind of the right way to think about the federal business at least in the near term now kind of returning to those levels after the restructuring of the LOGCAP contract? I think if you look at -- the way to look at the Government business is more or less looking at it for a full year basis because as you say there was the fourth quarter pickup offset a third quarter charge.
The other anomaly in the year was the loss of the arbitration on Embassy project.
So maybe normalize that out but then beyond that I think the range [ph] for the year are pretty normal.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just following up on I guess Jamie's question earlier on margins and I&amp;I.
You can get to the 5% number with some of the announcement backing out the gain for the U.K.
JV sale.
But you also mentioned in your K that at least in the year there was about $60 million of closeouts that you booked.
I guess my question is how much of that came in the fourth quarter? And maybe -- there's this kind of $19 million $20 million and $21 million were the 3 project closeouts.
Which one of those were in the fourth quarter just to give a sense of what maybe the underlying margin was in I&amp;I? One of them would have been in the fourth quarter one of the bigger ones.
But there's always going to be closeouts.
You shouldn't look at a project closing out and saying oh that represents some non-recurring source of income.
Because if we perform well and if we mitigated risks as we go along and as we get to the end of contracts we would expect to have a favorable performance.
I think that there was maybe a little bit more in the fourth quarter than is typical.
But quarter-on-quarter we're going to have those type of fluctuations.
I think the other point is those are typically lump sum projects.
And the back-end loading of that is by design.
So the more we have those infrastructure programs that happened to be lump sum in our portfolio the more predictable that end game is going to be.
I wouldn't say that there was anything that was really unplanned in the quarter.
Things happened as we expected and we were able to release the money associated with certain risks that were no longer risks.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
If I might just one final question here on Greater Gabbard and just want to be clear on this one.
The liquidated [ph] damages for $150 that was already part of the write-off if I'm not mistaken.
I just want to clarify that.
And then it looks like in the K you highlighted $100 million of potential for counterclaim.
Is that kind of the maximum liability that you're seeing it would be $100 million if it goes against you and nothing more? Just to be clear.
It's -- you're correct on the LD.
And yes you're correct on the second question.
We'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> David I just want to follow up on your comments relative to the boom you're seeing or hopefully you're seeing in North America.
The projects as they start to -- the EPC released in I guess hopefully late 2013 2014 do you expect these to come out as single individual large projects or is it -- in increments? Or I just want to understand how you think this surge in activity plays out and -- for Fluor.
Well I don't think it's going to be one big slug of work that comes out.
I think it's going to be phased -- I mean I give you an example.
We've already announced the PDH project we're working on for Dow.
That's a precursor to the cracker.
So I mean you're just kind of marching upstream there.
The same thing is true with the other petrochemical and gas-to-liquids programs that we're working on.
Obviously we've done the majority of the FEED work on those facilities just talking about the Gulf Coast.
So we kind of know where that's going to -- how that's going to work out from a sequencing standpoint.
There will be other contractors involved in some of these programs where they have a specific skill set or expertise.
And we will actually be partnering with some on some of these larger programs to take advantage of their skill set.
And obviously some of these things are pretty large.
And we want to make sure that we're prudent in how we manage the risks associated with them.
Research Division</strong> I mean how are the customers in terms of -- I know it's always difficult but as you start negotiating pricing and terms are they pretty amenable to cost-plus work for most of this? In some cases they are.
I'd say it's a mixed bag of the -- I'm just talking about Oil &amp; Gas in the Gulf Coast.
It's kind of a mixed bag of reimbursable and partial lump sum.
As I mentioned we were -- around the question around craft labor they recognize that for them to get a lump sum on some of these things it would be a very large number in order to accept the kind of risks associated with wage rates as an example.
And they're not willing to pay that premium nor do I think it's prudent for them to do so.
So there's -- I would say the negotiation is really what's in the best interest of the asset and the business model that our customer has and what -- and within what timing is this project going to do.
I think you're going to see some sequencing just because of the fear of lack of labor craft labor.
I'm not as concerned as others are in that.
We know how to do that and do that very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up.
Biggs how many shares are you assuming in the $3.85 to $4.35 guidance? We took the basically our year-end share position.
And just have to adjust it for anticipated diluted shares above and beyond that.
We didn't assume in the EPS guidance any change from additional share repurchases.
Not that we won't do them it's just that we don't incorporate that in.
We'll take our next question from Sameer Rathod with Macquarie.
I think there's been a lot of talk about the prospect of ethane crackers.
I was wondering if there's a rule of thumb on how much derivative work there could be behind the crackers and what kind of timing -- what will the timing be on that? And also I was wondering if you had any thoughts on the market for on-purpose olefins ex ethylene in aromatics and perhaps commenting on Fluor's experience there as well? Well from an experience standpoint we've got great experience from soup to nuts down that molecule chain including aromatics plants.
I was actually involved in a very large one in Saudi Arabia back in the '90s.
So we do have great capability across that value chain.
I'm not sure there's a rule of thumb.
When you think about petrochemical manufacturing in the United States there really hasn't been any investment in that market for shoot probably at least 1.5 decades.
So you've got new products you got new capacities you've got a global supply mix that will shift in this process with I think going further down in that molecule chain when you start thinking about carbon fibers and the use of those in things like automotive-s and airplanes and everything else.
So I think given the economics right now with gas sub $5 $6 I think you're going to see a significant buildout.
But I think it'll be in terms of new crackers up-rating or de-bottlenecking of existing crackers both of which fall well in our capability.
I think you're going to see capacity increases on existing process units as well as new process units.
So it's kind of a mixed bag.
But if the economics hold for any period of time I think you're looking at a pretty significant long-term investment in that market in the United States and the whole shift in where a lot of these projects were shipped.
You think it's a world commodity some of these plastics and fibers.
You're going to see more going from the Middle East to Asia and India and less coming to the United States because they're going to be able to provide them here and just the transportation savings alone makes it profitable over the longer term.
So I think it's a fundamental shift in petrochemical production right now.
And I don't think it will only just be ethane crackers.
I think you're probably going to see some naphtha crackers as well.
Right.
How about I guess the other olefins like polypropylene or butadiene I mean given that ethane primarily produces ethylene? Ethylene is not the end game.
It's all about polyethylene polypropylene going further down MDI TDI the fibrous chain.
It's pretty holistic.
They won't ship ethylene.
So do you -- I guess my last question is do you think the derivatives market will be bigger than the first wave of ethane crackers? In terms of number of projects yes.
And I'd say in dollars it's probably equal to if not greater.
Okay.
And the timing would be a few years after the ethylene buildout or would that be concurrent? I think it'll be sequenced.
It won't be concurrent but it won't be when the ethylene is available.
You're looking at a balance in those plants.
But as I said I think we're on a pretty sustained growth curve opportunity here just on the back of shale gas in the United States for the next almost decade.
I mean I think it could have that kind of tail on it.
We'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the petrochemical FEED activity as robust as you've been stating I was just wondering if -- and as they transition into EPC in the back half of this year and 2014 have -- has Fluor or any of your clients begun to place procurement on some of the longer lead time items that are involved in some of these plants? Well not only ethylene crackers but obviously the PDH programs we're working on we're well into the EPC.
So in that case yes.
But the big stuff we're still determining exactly what we need through those FEED programs.
So I really don't anticipate large commitments until the back half of this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Global Services margin it seemed pretty robust but sort of declining sequentially since about the second quarter of this year.
I was just wondering if this is the effect of transitioning to say more later cycle AMECO type work versus what's probably been some pretty strong O&amp;M network? And if so where do you think -- or how long do you think such a transition begins to take? Well on the O&amp;M work it's been a pretty tough market for the last 4 or 5 years.
So obviously that's depressed mark -- margin in that market.
But it's a good business and we're starting to see -- we're actually starting to see customers go back to the old model of picking 2 or 3 really close companies to them and create alliance-style agreements.
So we're seeing some of that come back.
And with that I think comes a little bit of a margin advantage because they do see the value that that long-term commitment on both sides has to that equation.
AMECO continues to grow.
And obviously that is part of that mix and that's going to bode well when you start looking at direct-hire construction and the use of our own equipment and the leverage associated with that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just sort of building on that comment do you think just on strategic alliances outside of O&amp;M we could see any near-term announcements sort of like the alliances you have with Dow and BASF? Any new announcements? I don't see any coming in the near term.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Biggs can you talk about the CapEx guidance for '13 and where that's going and then how you're thinking about '13 from a cash generation standpoint? As maybe that will help us model the buyback from here.
Sure.
In terms of the CapEx guidance the biggest requirements have been for AMECO.
And that is growing because of the additional opportunities we see around the world including in Mozambique after having made the acquisition there.
We think that's a great growth market and great IRR associated with it.
So we are funding that.
But there's also some internal spend.
We have some long-term major office replacements that we're presuming at this point in time we finance internally as opposed to through a lease or some other arrangements.
So there's some dollars in there for that.
And there's some O&amp;M projects that we considered also in the guidance.
The -- in terms of cash flow for the year this last year 2012 there was a use of working capital tied to a decrease in advances and also for an increase in the business so it should grow in revenues.
We would expect both those things to continue into 2013.
So 2013 cash flow at this point may look a lot like 2012 from an operating cash flow standpoint.
But keep in mind that an awful lot of that gets tied up in timing [indiscernible] ebbs and flow project cash flows.
So it's always more meaningful to look at it over a longer period without a cutoff within the year.
And that's why we look at it as well in terms of what we do from a capital deployment standpoint.
We're not hardcoded on an annual cash flow target so hopefully that helps.
The -- our philosophy with respect to capital deployment remains very much the same in terms of we obviously want to drive cash flow want to maintain the A- credit ratings and some flexibility within that.
But we'll look for opportunities to invest with a high return and absent those with $0.16 [ph] of the dividend irrespective and absent those other opportunities we will look to repurchase shares as excess cash becomes available.
Just won't get ahead of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And not to belabor the point but in terms of your -- if you look at the mix of backlog right now and where your cash is held it would seem that there's still a disproportionate weighting internationally in your cash balance.
But most of the growth opportunity it sounds like it's shifting a little bit back towards North America.
How does that play into how you think about that overseas cash? You're right.
Over time we expect higher or a shift back as you say of the total backlog to the U.S.
although we expect substantial growth internationally as well.
So we'll see how it plays out from a percentage standpoint as we go through time.
Right now there is $1.7 billion -- or at the end of the year $1.7 billion of our $2.6 billion total cash was international so a lot of it overseas.
As the U.S.
cash balance grows certainly it becomes more efficient to use that domestically for whatever purpose.
But the most important thing is you get the cash generation irrespective of whether it's domestic or international and that gives us the biggest opportunity.
Well I want to just put a point on one thing you mentioned and that is even though we do see a significant opportunity in the United States I still see the majority of our business being outside the United States for some time to come.
Research Division</strong> No I hear you.
Just in terms of the weighting of backlog maybe shifting a little bit back towards North America.
Just one last question David if you don't mind.
On the Power business can you just give an update on the Dominion project and how maybe that's progressing towards financial closure or not? And then just broadly speaking within Power what your expectation for the year is from an award standpoint and then visibility beyond that? I think new awards in Power I'm modestly optimistic.
I mean I think there's some things that have to go forward relative to gas and some of the renewables.
I don't think it will be prudent for me to comment on Dominion.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
Can you just talk about how you expect your Afghanistan work to ramp down over the next couple of years? I'm just wondering based on troop counts do you think you could run off half by the end of 2013 and then maybe the other half by the end of '14? Or I think maybe last quarter you'd say that there'll be a pickup before it winds down.
That's a great question.
I think we're doing all the scenarios that the military has asked us to do on the back of LOGCAP.
I think what typically happens in a drawdown is the services that the military is doing has to still be done when there's military in theater and that's when they turn to us.
So you actually see a little bit of a rise in our activities as you go through a drawdown.
We have not gotten anything other than the things you've heard in the press that would suggest that you are going to see a significant drawdown in '13.
But as we anticipated '14 will be when we start to see that come down.
But I don't think it's going to be appreciably different in '13 than it was in '12.
Okay.
I guess we're to the end of the questions.
And thank you operator for handling that for us.
And thanks to everyone for participating on our call today.
As we've said we believe the underlying performance of the company in 2012 was extremely strong.
During the year we returned over $500 million in cash to shareholders through dividends and the repurchase of 7.74 [ph] million shares.
And we continue to maintain one of the healthiest cash positions in the industry.
Looking at 2013 we're very optimistic about the opportunities as you've heard us speak.
We see opportunities across the industries and geographies that we work in primarily Oil &amp; Gas and petrochemicals and infrastructure I think in the near term.
And we expect to see deliver solid results in line with our guidance.
With that we really appreciate your interest in our company as well as the confidence you have in us.
So thank you and everyone have a great day.
This does concludes today's conference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 8 at the following telephone number: (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 4490608 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thanks very much operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding the forward-looking statements which we have summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today and in the company's 10-K.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are also posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
We've also updated and posted our factbook on our website which includes a 3-year financial recast for the organizational realignment that went in effect with this quarter's reporting and will be discussed somewhat on today's call.
With that I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon and thank you to everyone for joining us today.
Today as Ken said we'll be reviewing our first quarter results and discussing the trends we see through the remainder of 2013.
If you would turn to Slide 3 I'd like to begin by covering some of our highlights of the first quarter's financial performance.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the quarter were $166 million or $1.02 per diluted share which is up from $155 million or $0.91 per share in the first quarter 2012 which included the benefit of a lower tax rate.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $294 million up 16% and $253 million a year ago.
Segment profit results were driven by growth in Oil &amp; Gas Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and Government segments.
Oil &amp; Gas segment profit was particularly strong with first quarter results of $105 million which is a 42% increase over last year.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter was $7.2 billion up 14% over last year including a substantial increase in Oil &amp; Gas.
New awards for the quarter was strong at $6.5 billion including $3.1 billion in Oil &amp; Gas and $2.2 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
Consolidated backlog was $37.5 billion which is down from a year ago primarily due to the downturn in the Mining &amp; Metals market.
More importantly as we commented last quarter we continue to see improving margins on our backlog which is encouraging.
Our financial results are summarized on a table on Slide 4.
I'll continue my remarks on Slide 5.
Oil &amp; Gas awards for the quarter included contracts for petrochemical facilities in the United States and China.
Flour was selected by Dow Chemical for the expansion of their existing petrochemical facility in the Gulf Coast including an ethylene cracker and associated power utilities and infrastructure facility upgrades.
Ending Oil &amp; Gas backlog was $18.6 billion which is an increase of 11% from a year ago and a modest increase over last quarter.
The Oil &amp; Gas group continues to see strong demand for front-end engineering contracts especially in petrochemical facilities although expect new awards for the remainder of '13 to be fairly balanced across upstream downstream and chemical markets.
Moving now to Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
New awards for the quarter were $2.2 billion including the Tappan Zee Bridge replacement in New York and the Horseshoe road project here in Dallas.
Backlog declined to $16 billion compared to $23 billion a year ago as a result of continuing work-off associated with large mining projects combined with the newer -- lower new award count over the past year.
Now there were a number of news reports recently pertaining to issues and delays on various existing mining projects and new prospects which are creating some challenge for 2013.
We are close -- in close contact with these clients and continue to support their efforts.
As a result of the organizational realignment that we noted in our earnings release effective this quarter financial results for Industrial &amp; Infrastructure now include the operations and maintenance piece of the Global Services segment.
If you turn to Slide 6 ending backlog for Government segment was $964 million which compares to $695 million a year ago.
New awards in the first quarter were $756 million driven primarily by the timing of LOGCAP IV task orders.
2013 we expect task order awards under LOGCAP IV to remain at or near existing levels.
With regard to sequestration we have seen some impact on our funding at Savannah River and we don't believe the overall impact will be significant.
We're also seeing some delays in the customers' decision-making timetable on some of the services prospects that we are bidding on.
Moving to Global Services.
The segment reported $28 million in segment profit and $150 million in revenue.
Results for the first quarter were lower than a year ago due to the reduction -- excuse me due to reduced contribution from AMECO.
As a result of a shift from O&amp;M to the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment there are no new awards or backlog for the Global Services segment since AMECO and TRS businesses are more transactional in nature.
Power segment new awards for the first quarter were $448 million including the extension of a long-term fossil power maintenance contract in Texas and award of an engineering procurement construction contract for a solar facility in California.
Segment backlog was $1.9 billion.
The group is currently working on a number of gas-fired and solar projects in addition to maintaining power facilities across the United States.
The group continues to track opportunities for new gas-fired plants alternative energy including solar as well as plant betterment programs.
On the nuclear front last week we announced that a consortium with GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy Fluor's been awarded -- has been selected by Dominion Virginia Power to provide project development services for a proposed 1 475-megawatt nuclear unit at North Anna Power Station.
Fluor will perform the engineering construction of the facility once Dominion Virginia Power receives federal permission to proceed which is expected in 2015.
Please turn to Slide 7.
In order to better align our company with our customers and markets we serve as I previously mentioned we have moved the operations and maintenance business line from the Global Services group segment to the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment.
In Industrial &amp; Infrastructure we have aligned the O&amp;M business with our Manufacturing and Life Sciences group which has a very similar customer base with projects that are often smaller in nature and require a common skill set.
Our Global Services group which includes our TRS staffing business and our equipment business AMECO have also -- they have responsibility for the company's strategically important construction fabrication and supply chain solutions organizations.
I believe that expanding our capability in fabrication and modularization increasing the amount of self-performed construction and applying the best-in-class global supply chain solutions will allow us to leverage our knowledge and expertise and capitalize on the opportunities that we see ahead of us particularly in Oil &amp; Gas.
With regard to fabrication we have previously announced a joint venture company that we established with AGP -- AG&amp;P in the Philippines.
This quarter we completed the purchase of an Australian-based company that specializes in fabrication and pressure welding.
In addition we just announced the formation of a partnership with Supreme Group a modular fabricator in Canada.
This relationship enhances our construction and modularization capacity in North America and specifically in Canada.
With that summary I'll now turn it over to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David.
Good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 8 of the presentation.
As David indicated consolidated backlog at quarter end was $37.5 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog rose to 18% at quarter end with the booking of 2 large infrastructure projects.
About 2/3 of first quarter awards were for U.S.-based projects which drove an increase in the backlog for projects located in the United States to 32%.
Moving to corporate items on Slide 9.
G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $33 million which is an improvement from $38 million a year ago primarily due to lower compensation expense.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 30%.
We expect the rate for the full year to be in the 32% to 34% range.
Shifting to the balance sheet.
Fluor's financial condition remains strong with cash plus current and non-current marketable securities totaling $2.5 billion.
This compares with a balance of $2.6 billion last quarter.
Cash flow during the first quarter was seasonally weak with operating activities utilizing $22 million during the quarter.
As we have said in the past we take a number of factors into account when deciding whether or not to repurchase shares in any given quarter including cash flow generation from operations.
While we did not repurchase any shares during the quarter we expect to continue our repurchase program in 2013 with repurchases biased towards the second half of the year.
I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2013 which is on Slide 10.
We are pleased with our financial results for the quarter including $6.5 billion in new awards.
We continue to experience headwinds and uncertainty in Mining &amp; Metals as David noted which may put pressure on our ability to achieve or exceed the very high end of our range.
However we are very encouraged by the strength of our Oil &amp; Gas business and the substantial contributions from Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
Considering the overall portfolio we are maintaining our EPS guidance at the previously established range of $3.85 to $4.35 per share.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Jamie Cook of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So of course I need to ask the question.
I was pleasantly surprised by the margin performance in the quarter of the 3.8%.
So can you just tell me how that stood relative to sort of your expectations? And what were the drivers? And then what's the likelihood that we could actually hit a 4% margin in the quarter? I guess that's my first question.
And then I have one more after that.
Well I think we're right on plan with what we anticipated with that margin production.
As I've said before Jamie we see a strengthening in the margin and backlog.
We've seen a general improvement in the markets that we're serving.
We're starting to see demand pick up I think pretty quickly.
You've seen the new awards and particularly the change in the new award totals in the United States primarily on the back of the Dow announcement but certainly others.
So I think we're on track with what we thought we would have relative to a buildup of margin within the specific businesses.
But particularly I think Oil &amp; Gas improvement is something we've anticipated and talked about and clearly right now I think we're starting to see it.
I don't know when we'll get to 4% but I would say that I'm very pleased with where we are and particularly where we're headed with the programs that we're very active on but have yet to book the EPC values of those programs.
Research Division</strong> And then when we think about sort of -- you mentioned in your slides about maybe the high end not really being as likely just given some of the things that you're seeing in mining.
I guess why not lower the high end at this point if that's out there? Or is there something that you think could potentially better to offset that which is not making you take the high end down? I think what we said was the headwinds and I think that's a good way of describing it.
I've never changed a guidance or a number in my career in the first quarter unless it was some significant event that would dictate that we do so.
I think that we're in a very good position to perform at what our plan is even with the headwinds that we talked about.
And the upper end is not out of the question.
It's just a hell of a lot harder with the headwinds from mining that we're seeing right now.
Research Division</strong> And then sorry last just a modeling question.
On the earnings from noncontrolling interest it was much -- the number was bigger than I guess I would have expected.
Can you just sort of talk about what's driving behind that and how we should think about that for the year? It was higher for the quarter and higher for the quarter than we would expect in succeeding quarters.
It's really just a mix of business.
It depends upon the performance of each joint venture relative to the performance of projects which are wholly Fluor's in execution.
And it really just comes in and out of the P&amp;L.
It's added into income before tax.
Tax is calculated and then it's taken right back again to get to net income attributable to Fluor.
So it really has no net effect on the P&amp;L but it does have a somewhat I don't know cosmetic effect on the tax rate which you really have to set aside.
We'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mark Mihallo on for Andy.
First question I just had was around I guess the Oil &amp; Gas business and your future outlook on that.
So you had a very good book-to-bill in the quarter.
And I guess your conviction around that book-to-bill being out 1x are better over the back half of the year.
Well I think we're in the early stages of a pretty good growth curve as we stated before.
We're in the very beginnings of I think several major programs in the United States.
We're in the beginning stages of major oil and gas programs around the globe as well.
I think everybody wants to talk about shale gas in the Gulf Coast which is a great story.
And I've said previously we're in the early stages of $35 billion worth of EPC value some of which went in during the quarter for Dow and some other things.
So I think we're on the very early stages of a pretty good growth cycle that I think has a pretty good link through that cycle.
I'm expecting some really big things out of that group and I'm quite bullish on the market.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just to follow up on Pascua-Lama.
So how much work if any were you able to do on Pascua-Lama? And is it fair to say that it's going to be a several cent hit to your income statement each quarter going forward? I don't know about that.
I think we're continuing to support Barrick on Pascua-Lama.
The Argentinian side really didn't slow down and that is the process side of that particular project.
And we're continuing to obviously execute that.
We did have a slowing on the Chilean side because of the things that you've seen.
But we're supporting Barrick in the resubmission of their documents to support the permits and what they need to continue the project.
Obviously it's going to slow but I'll say it's headwinds it's not major hits.
So I'm not sure you're going to see it really impact us greatly.
And moving on to Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Ravi Gill on for Jerry.
David it's been about 2 decades since we've had a meaningful chemical CapEx cycle in the U.S.
Can you help us frame what market share your franchise historically garnered on the EPC side in ethylene and propylene in the Middle East and Asia and how we should think about that relative to the United States? I'm not sure we look at things in terms of market share.
I think the way I would categorize it is we spend a lot of time focusing on creating some relationships with some key clients that gave us a competitive advantage.
The alliances that we have with Dow with BASF with Shell the relationships we have with people like Sasol and others I think positions us to do the majority of the work in this cycle.
And I think that's synonymous with the relationships that we've had with people like SABIC in Saudi Arabia and ARAMCOs and the like in the Middle East in previous cycles.
Now we have those relationships as well but I think what we're seeing specific to the United States is their need to get ahead of the curve because of cheap gas and frankly the resurging of manufacturing in the United States which are both really good stories.
I think that our teams have done an outstanding job of positioning with these customers for these key projects.
We feel comfortable with the capacities that we have both in terms of management and engineering talent our supply chain capabilities as well as the craft side.
So I think our customers are recognizing the value that they see in our ability to deliver both in terms of cost and schedule.
So I look at it as almost a perfect storm for us because we've really spent the time to invest in what we needed in order to take advantage of these programs and projects and win as much as we care to.
Research Division</strong> And then -- so given some of the developments over the past quarter the Dow announcement this morning the large ammonia project earlier in the month can you just provide your updated assessment on when you believe the large greenfield projects in chemicals will get awarded? And which chemicals do you see moving ahead first ammonia ethylene or propylene? Well I think it depends on how you define greenfield.
I mean most of these facilities are built on existing production sites.
So when I think about greenfield I think about a true greenfield.
Now the Dow cracker is a greenfield cracker but it's on an existing site as part of another -- of an overall program.
But I do believe the ethylene business will be ahead.
Ethylene propylene polyethylene and that chain will be ahead of the other products that they're used for.
I think GTL and in some cases LNG are next and power usage will be last and only last because of the delay in the Casper rules by the EPA which doesn't give the generators good clarity on what they need to do relative to their generating base and balance.
So I think it just delays that.
But in all cases it fits within our sweet spot of being able to execute for our customers.
So regardless of the sequence we'll be very active in all counts.
And next up from UBS Steven Fisher.
Research Division</strong> David previously you had expressed some concerns about the permitting process in some of these U.S.
shale projects.
I guess what are your latest thoughts on that front? And then do you have any other concerns about costs or end demand holding up any of the awards? Well my comments on permitting I think were basically just the timing that's normally necessary.
We don't necessarily see that being a major holdup but obviously it could be.
based on backlog because there's so many projects that are going to be vying for those permits at the same time.
But there's really nothing that I see that stands in the way.
I think the only pinch point is going to be in terms of craft labor.
But if you look at our strategy around fabrication and the supply chain we're able to take a fair amount of the construction off the sites into a controlled environment to improve the quality.
We are way out in front relative to training centers and recruiting of the Fluor craft that we've always enjoyed in that area.
So I think these first projects that we're doing I don't see any significant issues standing in the way of them having a normal schedule trajectory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just over to NuScale.
Can you just give us an update on your process there and your confidence that you'll be able to sell down a stake in that this year? A lot of discussions right now on potential investors.
We feel good about where we stand there.
We've limited -- as I've said in the previous quarter we've limited the expense by putting John Hopkins in there to manage that business in a much more forceful manner.
I think we've done a very good job of controlling that.
The second FOA is out and we're actively pursuing that.
And moving on to Andrew Wittmann with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just to dig in a little bit more into some of the shale-driven infrastructure projects.
I'm kind of curious as to -- not specifically but maybe in generalities if you could comment on what some of those terms like -- look like.
Are those -- are you able to get reimbursable style contracts on those type projects David or is that more on a fixed price basis today? And do you see change as we go deeper in...
Yes those are primarily reimbursable those contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that something that your business model's afforded you to do allowed you to win whereas maybe your competition are trying to do it a different way? Or is that just kind of the standard one? No I think those decisions were based on the value proposition and the project people that we have to offer versus the others.
I'd say that the clients were making value decisions.
We've got the ability to do them under a various commercial approaches.
Reimbursable is fine fixed price is fine regardless of whether it's in the Gulf Coast or whether it's some place else.
We really spend a lot of time and effort in improving that capability but I think primarily we've had a very strong position in gas market programs regardless of what the usage is.
And I think that what you're seeing today is just that value proposition shining through.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe up in the oil sands David.
Given some of the discounts that we've seen up there and some CapEx cuts can you just talk about the project level activity that you're seeing out in the market today? Is that potentially continuing to be a growth area as you look through the balance of the year? Is that still kind of flat at a high level? Well I think it's a growth story frankly.
And I think the limitation and some of the discounts you're talking about in the gas side I think are temporary.
If you remember we still don't have Keystone pipeline going or any other infrastructure.
So I think some people are kind of hedging their bets on when will the infrastructure be there to support some of these developments.
There's nothing standing in the way at the moment.
But when you look towards some of the bigger users the LNG plants and the like we really need to have that infrastructure underway and ready when these plants start up.
That's really the only hampering point that I see in this equation.
But I think any pullback right now is temporary.
And we'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is really in regards to something I guess everyone's already asking about the petrochem side so I'll let that one be.
And when you're talking about the labor market in general one of the projections I've seen is craft labor probably going up 35% or so between now and 2015 and some migration of labor maybe from the Midwest space down to help out.
So I mean it seems like some of the projects might get a little pushed out versus canceled outright.
Is that -- when you're actually doing your projections are you assuming that some projects are more cascaded versus everything sort of getting done at the same time and a peak coming out more closer to 2016? No I really don't see things being pushed out Tahira.
And I think from a cost escalation point and a productivity perspective those things are already part of the planning process.
Everybody sees the same data you do in our customer base.
So I think it's a good healthy debate on what those protection factors are but that's not delaying any of the programs that are there.
I think that a comprehensive immigration bill would be helpful to the circumstance.
This country's been built on immigration and I don't know why this next cycle would not enjoy the same support because I think there's going to be plenty to go around.
I think that what we're going to see is a circumstance where the traveler will come back.
I think over the last decade or maybe 2 decades in the United States we've seen a lack of willingness on the craft part to travel more than one state away.
I think we're going to see a change in that.
And we're already seeing people coming to us from 3 and 4 and 5 states away.
They were ready to come to the Gulf Coast and work.
So we're going to have to be careful about craft labor but I don't see that being an Achilles' heel to the schedules that people are thinking about or cancel in any way the projects that we're focused on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And as a follow-up you've obviously taken a great start to the petrochem cycle with the Dow announcement today.
That was clearly an important win and really bodes well for the cycle.
When I look at Sasol they obviously have a very large project prospect in play as well and it seems they've already put in the lead procurement item orders.
So if you look out over the next 9 months or so how many of these petrochem projects outside of Dow do you really see going forward which are a fairly decent size? I think most of what we're looking at have a better-than-average chance of going forward over the next probably 4 quarters both in terms of the ethylene and petrochemical side the gas and liquids side and a growing optimism on LNG in Canada and in the Gulf Coast.
So I see a pretty good collection of projects that are going to be awarded and announced basically on the schedule that we're anticipating.
And we'll go to Alex Rygiel of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First David you mentioned that you're seeing some improved margins in backlog.
What specifically is the catalyst to it? Is it just a shift in mix of what's in your backlog? Is it some improved pricing in certain end markets? I think it's a collection of all of the above.
I mean I think we are seeing a shift back towards the Oil &amp; Gas business in an EPC form which is always good.
We are seeing some improvement in pricing but I wouldn't suggest that it's overly so.
Also I think that we spend a lot of time in improving our work processes to become more efficient both in terms of reimbursable and fixed price projects which help add to that margin equation and also when you think about the leverage we get when we start to really burn hours on the engineering side as it relates to overhead space computing those fixed costs that we have.
So I think all of that adds to I think improved margin and backlog and I think it'll continue to improve as we go through the next probably 6 quarters.
I would just add the shift in I&amp;I from mining awards infrastructure awards also increases margin and backlog.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And one more question.
Sort of in the I&amp;I category when do you think we might hit that equilibrium where new awards approximates revenue burn? I don't know that's something that...
We haven't really looked at it that way.
We forecast -- especially with awards always being lumpy as we say it's kind of hard to do a forecast.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe if I could ask that another way.
How much further revenue burn in the mining sector is sort of necessary to get back to a I don't know sort of a run rate backlog in mining? Well I think over the next probably 3 quarters we're going to be burning significant revenue in the mining segment.
That's the normal burn-off.
And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we're just not filling it up with as much new awards on the same basis.
So I can't give you a time but I think it's fair to say that we are moving in that direction with mining.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Michael Dudas of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David keeping it on the infrastructure track.
Historically Fluor's booked maybe 1 large infrastructure project a year.
Obviously you've got 2 nice awards kind of of recent note.
Could you update us on -- has more opportunities been accelerated over the past couple of months? And could we see some more positive activity on booking for Fluor as we move into 2014? That's a great question Michael.
I think I'd answer it in a couple of different ways.
One is obviously Horseshoe and Tappan Zee coming in 1 quarter is unusual.
To your point it will typically spread out.
I will say that we've had an increase in the proposal activity over the last little while.
And we have a fair amount of procurements that are in the early stages that will hopefully be awarded as we get towards maybe the end of this year early next year.
But we're really pleased with what we're getting.
We have not been successful in a couple that we bid in that big tranche of bidding but clearly we won the ones that were strategically important to us and fit our offering quite well.
But I still see significant growth in Infrastructure.
I mean just the pent-up demand in the United States is there.
One thing that the Congress did very well was the reauthorization of TIFIA program that helps support these programs.
We're seeing a fair amount of the PPP market start to come back in a large way and things like light rail toll roads and the like.
So to use the term we've always used and Biggs' just used of lumpy I still see growth in Infrastructure.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And David just my follow-up would be as you're looking at the mining customers so it seems -- does it seem like it's a little bit more of a pause given where capital spending trends and outlooks have been from some of the big ore or these iron ore or hard rock mining customers? Or is this still just people just trying to figure out where the cycle is going to be? I think to use your term I think they're taking a deep breath.
Some of these -- in every mining project that I've ever seen there's always the issue of permitting and labor unrest that puts these projects into fits and takes.
And they do slow down from time to time.
I think this is more of a structural deep breath driven by the commodity markets but also driven by the change in leadership.
And even when I -- I mean it was seamless when I took over from Alan but even at that I took some time to think about where we were headed and the things that we needed to do and what those priorities were.
And my expectation is the folks at Rio and the folks at BHP and the like are doing the same thing.
So I think that just adds to the deepness of the breath so to speak.
But I don't by any means think that there's a long-term structural change in the market nor a significant long-term delay in capital spending.
Research Division</strong> Certainly maybe where the projects are going to be built might change it because of nationalization government and the like...
That's always been the case and I don't think that will change.
I mean one thing about it both -- for all the extractive industries they have to go to some interesting places to gain access to those liquids and ores.
And we'll go to Robert Connors of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just for housekeeping purposes with the O&amp;M business outside of Global Services it was pretty good margin in the quarter.
I mean is this sort of the run rate? Or were there some onetime things in there that won't be continuing going forward? The run rate in I&amp;I or in Global Services? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes in the Global Services margin.
Well I think there's opportunities for improvement there.
The reason we made that change is client preferences skill set coordination and I think a fair amount of focus on the smaller projects which fits within that group's capabilities that drove that decision.
And I think the margin I think should improve over time.
But again we're still waiting on -- outside of power we're still waiting on that shutdown turnaround market to return and obviously that would be an impetus to improve margin.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then related to the Supreme and AG&amp;P joint ventures just wondering if Fluor is able to begin fabrication of the modular components for a lot of the Gulf Coast petchem facilities before you guys or before -- excuse me the client receives their permit approval.
And if so is that already occurring for some projects that we haven't heard or that haven't been press released yet by Fluor? Well those 2 specifically and other actions that we're taking I think add to our ability to supply what's needed by our customers.
The schedules we're on schedule to be able to supply whatever's necessary on those schedules those various projects and we feel good about those.
I'm less concerned about delays because of permits on these petrochemical facilities than maybe some other use of gas.
And the reason is is that most of these new facilities are on existing facilities that already produce the same types of materials and products.
And I think that the permitting process will not be encumbered by some of the new regulations that are out there.
So I feel pretty good about where we are on the timing of these programs and I'm very comfortable with our ability to provide the fabricated modules for those projects based on the schedules that we've produced for the customers.
And going next to John Rogers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on one thing.
David in the past you've talked about investing more in modular fabrications self-performing work and I know you've acquired some assets in Australia and partnership up in Canada.
Is there more to do there and particularly in the U.S.? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> And will we see that soon? Or I mean is that something you'll acquire or build yourselves? Well I think we're in the process of making those decisions right now and I really don't want to get into that.
But we're clearly going to do more in the Gulf Coast to support those programs and support the local labor capabilities in those regions.
And we'll take a question from Andrew Wittmann of Baird.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to check in on the gas plant opportunity.
David earlier you kind of went through the cadence of how you thought some of the gas infrastructure things will play out and lowest on that list sounded like gas power generation.
Yet you noted in your prepared remarks that there's probably I think you said a handful of maybe 6 or something that you're looking at today.
Can you just talk about the likelihood of those going or maybe when you think those could make sense? And then just specifically I think previously you commented that this year would be a $15 million to $20 million kind of profit year for the Power business.
Is that still the case? Well I think it's delayed frankly.
We've done a lot of studies on gas plants and continue to do that.
I think the delay in Casper is the reason for that.
If you're a generator and the regulators aren't giving you the answers you need to make your capital decisions on you're going to have to push that out until you have that data.
And I think the delay of Casper was not a good decision.
If you're a generator you're sitting there with a coal fleet that they know they've got to fix they're ready to fix.
The CEO of Duke I think it was last year made the comment that they're ready to spend $20 billion on dealing with their coal fleet if they just knew what the rules were.
And in that and I know I'm mixing things up but gas is going to replace some of that coal fleet.
And until they really know the capacity that they have to replace they don't know exactly which gas projects to sanction and move forward with.
So I think the delay in those rules was not a positive step in the right direction particularly when it comes to fuel supply mix for the generators or quite frankly job creation in the United States.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- but so specifically on the profitability of that segment does that change your previous comments there? Is this more of a breakeven year for the Power group then do you think? Well I think the earning -- I think we're still looking at -- now we're looking more at '14 for the improvement in profitability for Power.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one more on the Government business.
There's been a change in opinion on the Y-12/Pantex management contract.
Just kind of your updated thoughts there how you think you're positioned for I guess the rebid there and as well as maybe some comments on Sandia if any.
Well I think on Y-12 you've seen the reports that I've seen.
We did not believe that that decision was based on all the facts and we're glad that the government has intervened and will give a chance for all the facts to come out.
We feel very good about the team that we were part of and we look forward to recompeting that.
On Sandia I really wouldn't want to comment at this point.
We'll just see how that comes out.
But I think the government group's done a really good job of diversifying their offering.
As we said in our prepared remarks we don't see any significant change in the LOGCAP production performance over this year and into next year.
And those guys were working really hard to find ways of filling that earnings stream up with other work with the U.S.
federal government and the governments outside the United States.
And we'll take our question from Will Gabrielski of Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if my first question is a repeat but did you guys give an updated specific on your NuScale spend and whether that's being addressed with the FOA in process? No we didn't give a specific update on NuScale but I think it's consistent with what we had said before.
We don't see any change with or without FOA in this year.
See our total guidance for the year is the same.
We said around $0.20 a share impact for the full year.
Run rate in the first quarter may be a little higher than that because we were still leaving -- coming out of last year at a little higher pace and bringing it down to some level of moderation.
But no change to the full year expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And over the past few months we've finally seen confirmation of what you guys have been talking about for the last few years in terms of the aggressive pricing in the Middle East.
And 2 questions off of that.
One are you seeing anything changing on the competitive landscape right now? And two is there any opportunity for you on jobs that are behind schedule or didn't have a program manager involved that are running over budget to go in and maybe pick up some work? Well we've already seen some of that where we've been asked by certain customers to come in and support finishing some of these programs.
I think it does provide the opportunity that I spoke of 2 years ago when people said we couldn't compete against the Asian contractor.
We've done quite well.
We've continued to grow.
And frankly speaking when you fail in front of a customer their memories aren't significantly longer but they are longer.
And they turn to people like us that have proven execution capabilities have delivered for them over the longer term and they go back to a value judgment.
I think we've seen that probably for the last I don't know year.
And that's evidenced by the FEED work that we're doing that's pretty global in nature in terms of Mining &amp; Metals and specifically when you look at Ma'aden and our ability to win the phosphate project.
I think in terms of petrochemicals both in the United States and in the Middle East we've also picked up some early work that would not go to some of those contractors because of their lack of performance.
So I think we like to just tell it like we see it.
As I said a long time ago this is the third time I've seen this from the Asian contractors and we will see it again.
But I think what we're trying to focus on is doing the right things to have good solid growth to be able to perform and finish these projects for our customers as they anticipate.
Because you've got to remember all of our customers don't make a dime until we turn the switch to turn that thing on and they're eager for that day.
And those that historically can allow them to turn that switch on the date that they anticipated they're going to continue to come back to people like Fluor because that's what we deliver.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll now turn things back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And thank you everyone for participating this afternoon.
Based on our strong results for the first quarter we think we're off to a good start even with the challenging situation that we've seen in mining recently.
As you gathered on the call I'm particularly pleased where Oil &amp; Gas group is heading.
I'm very pleased with where I&amp;I is heading given the challenges that they have and the way they've been able to shift their resources to focus on projects and infrastructure and others that will continue to help us grow this company.
I believe that our strategic focus on construction fabrication and supply chain management further enhances our ability to provide and integrate the solution to our customers and enhances our overall market position.
With that I really appreciate your interest in Fluor as well as your confidence in our great company.
Have a good day.
And once again that concludes our call.
Thank you all for joining.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fluor Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A question-and-answer session will follow management's presentation.
A replay of today's conference will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 11 a.m.
Eastern Time on August 7 at the following telephone number (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 2083183 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this morning before market open and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2 of the slide deck.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today and in the company's 10-K.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Ken and good morning to everyone and I appreciate everyone joining us this morning.
Today we'll be reviewing our results for the second quarter and discussing trends we see for the remainder of 2013.
Now if you turn to Slide 3 I'd like to begin by covering some of the highlights of our second quarter financial performance.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the quarter were $161 million or $0.98 per diluted share.
I think this represents a good quarterly result when you consider the EPS was impacted by a $0.07 charge for the resolution of the last of the company's outstanding recorded claims.
Otherwise we met our expectations for the quarter.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $288 million which was comparable to $287 million a year ago.
Segment profit results were driven by strong growth in Oil &amp; Gas as well as growth in Power.
These improvements were largely offset by the $17 million pretax charge relating to the final embassy claim.
Consolidated revenue was $7.2 billion reflecting growth in Oil &amp; Gas and Power segments which is offset to some degree by lower revenue in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure as well as Government.
New awards for the quarter were substantial at $7.2 billion including $3.6 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and $3.3 billion in Oil &amp; Gas.
Consolidated backlog was right at $37 billion which is down from a year ago primarily due to the downturn in the Mining &amp; Metals market.
Having said that the margin dollars in backlog and the margin percent in backlog are higher than they were last year.
Our financial results are summarized in the table on Slide 4.
And as you know the full detail by segment is included in our earnings release.
Now if you turn to Slide 5.
Oil &amp; Gas awards in the quarter include significant new scope on a large upstream project in Russia and a FEED award for Sasol's ethane cracker and associated derivative chemical facilities in Lake Charles Louisiana.
This important FEED program is already underway and is expected to be complete later this year.
This project along with Dow Chemical's projects that were awarded earlier is further evidence that we are especially well positioned for the U.S.
petrochemical buildout.
Looking ahead we expect to hear a decision relatively soon on the CPChem ethylene cracker which we are bidding together with JGC.
In addition to our strong position in petrochemicals we're excited about a number of LNG prospects which we are also proactively pursuing some with JGC as well.
And we're well into the FEED on the Anadarko's onshore facility in Mozambique and we're currently pursuing export facilities for the Kitimat project in Canada and the Cameron project in Louisiana.
We also continued to see a significant number of Oil &amp; Gas opportunities internationally including major upstream and downstream programs in Canada Mexico Kazakhstan Australia Asia and the Middle East.
We expect that strong FEED demand will translate into EPC awards over the next few years.
Ending Oil &amp; Gas backlog was $18.7 billion which is down modestly from $19.5 billion a year ago.
Moving to Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
The new awards for the quarter were $3.6 billion which included $2.9 billion award for the expansion of the Cerro Verde copper project in Peru for Freeport-McMoRan.
This construction management contract is a follow-on to the engineering and procurement phases that we recently completed.
We also booked $184 million infrastructure contract to provide program management and construction supervision services for the $5 billion Sharq crossing program part of Qatar's ambitious development plans ahead of the 2022 World Cup.
Industrial &amp; Infrastructure backlog ticked up to $16.2 billion in the second quarter driven by the large mining award in Peru.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
The ending backlog for Government segment was $531 million.
This compares to $505 million a year ago.
New awards in the second quarter were $256 million primarily for the LOGCAP task orders.
We're beginning to see a reduction in the task order volume on LOGCAP contracts in Afghanistan.
For the balance of 2013 we expect a quarterly revenue run rate of approximately $350 million to $400 million which is below the $500 million run rate that we've generally experienced up through the first quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we recorded a $17 million charge in the quarter relating to a court ruling in our final embassy claim with the U.S.
government.
This result was particularly frustrating as the court ruled in our favor on 2 of the 3 central issues yet awarded us only a small fraction of what we believe we're owed.
We are considering an appeal to the amount of the award.
Moving to Global Services.
The segment reported $28 million in segment profit and $154 million in revenue.
This group continues to be active in supporting projects as well as external customers.
Global Services organization is leading our effort to support and grow our integrated construction and fabrication and supply-chain capabilities.
Our fabrication resources in Mexico the Philippines and Canada are ready to support and in some cases are already supporting some of the large projects globally.
In anticipation of the huge demand for skilled craft resources in the Gulf region we recently have opened training centers to support the Dow Chemical ethylene cracker complex in Freeport Texas and expanded our welder training program in Houston.
Power backlog was $1.6 billion at the end of the quarter.
The group continues to track opportunities in new gas-fired plants solar facilities as well as plant betterment programs.
Looking at the rest of 2013 I think we're on track to book the Brunswick County combined-cycle gas-fired plant for Dominion Energy in the third quarter and see several opportunities for environmental retrofit projects later in the year.
With that I'd turn it over to Biggs to review some of the details of the operating performance as well as some of the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David.
Good morning everyone.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation.
As David indicated consolidated backlog at quarter end was $37 billion.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog declined from 18% last quarter to 16% at quarter end.
Our geographic mix stands at 70% international and 30% in the United States.
Moving to corporate items on Slide 8.
G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $32 million which is comparable to the last quarter and a year ago.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 31% which was on the low end of our expectations for the year.
We expect the rate for the second half of the year to be in the 32% to 34% range.
Shifting to the balance sheet.
Fluor's financial condition remains very strong with cash plus current and noncurrent marketable securities of $2.6 billion at quarter end.
This is up about $100 million from where we ended last quarter but level with where we started the year.
Cash flow from operating activities in the second quarter was $264 million driven mainly by earning sources.
While working capital balances were modestly better at the end of the quarter on a year-to-date basis we've seen reductions in advanced billing balances as we make progress on certain projects and increases in account receivable balances mainly due to the timing of collections.
It's worth noting that one major customer advance has now been fully utilized so this should be less of a cash flow drag going forward.
We expect more normal working capital patterns in the second half of the year with corresponding improvements in the cash flow.
If you look at our cash flow statement you will see that we did not repurchase any shares during the second quarter.
With the expectation that future cash flow will improve we anticipate a resumption of share purchases in the second half of the year consistent with our capital allocation philosophy.
I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2013 which is on Slide 9.
While we continue to see a number of opportunities in our Oil &amp; Gas business the charge relating to our final embassy claim and as we've stated last quarter the slowdown in Mining &amp; Metals have put pressure on the upper end of our EPS guidance range for 2013.
As a result we're tightening the EPS guidance range for 2013 $3.85 to $4.20 per diluted share which compares to the previous range of $3.85 to $4.35.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One David could you just talk about how we should think about the burn rate related to mining in the back half of the year relative to what you originally thought and how we should think about that going into 2014? And then my second question relates to Oil &amp; Gas.
One I think some of the projects that had more procurement roll-off in the first half of the year fairly soon so can you talk about that and how that should potentially impact margins in the back half of the year? And then also Kitimat and Cameron are 2 obviously big awards.
Can you talk about the potential timing of them and what you think your positioning is with JGC relative to I think Kitimat you're bidding against KBR and Kiewit.
And Cameron there's a number of bidders out there but your likelihood of winning those projects? Thanks Jamie.
With regard to mining I guess I would characterize what's going on in mining is most of the miners are taking a deep breath as think I've said before.
I think the Cerro Verde award shows that there's still people ready to pull the trigger spend money on things that make sense.
I just spent last week in Australia on several of our job sites and I think the need is still there.
So I think when you combine the markets you combine the fact that each of the mining companies have basically new management teams.
I would suggest that what we're seeing is a little bit of hiatus right now and I believe that we'll see a resurgence of that as we get into mid '14 on some of these programs.
Having said that I think that we still have a fair amount of projects going on that still have to complete.
And so I don't think you're going to see much of a change as we get into the second half of this year -- or we're already into the second half of this year.
But I think it could have a little bit of slowing effect on the first part of next year just simply because of a lack of new awards that are going in.
But the group is very active.
We're doing a lot of still study work.
There's still good projects out there they're just not as big as the ones that we have experienced over the last bit of time but I do see that it's going to improve.
You're talking about Oil &amp; Gas and there was 2 questions there one on margin and one on LNG.
As I've said in the prepared remarks we're seeing better margin both in terms of dollars and in terms of percentages in our backlog which is a very good trend.
And I see that continuing as we get into this next cycle.
I'm not really going to comment on how that actually burns.
But relative to LNG and I think our relationship with JGC I'm very pleased with that.
I think the team has done a really good job of looking at that market and coming up with an alignment that is satisfactory to us as well as JGC.
But frankly speaking it's very satisfactory to our client base.
On the timing you know that as well as I do on the timing of Kitimat and Cameron I think Jamie unless we have a really good opportunity to win something we really don't go after it.
So I feel good about our position.
I feel really good about our relationship our growing relationship with JGC.
I've known them for many years and worked with them for many years around the world primarily in the Middle East back in the day when I lived out there.
So I feel very good about where we stand from a strategic perspective and feel good about our ability to win some of these projects.
Research Division</strong> But David just as a follow-up I feel like in the first half of the year in -- within Oil &amp; Gas there were some projects that weren't favorable to margins that roll off fairly soon.
Is that fair outside of the pricing trends that you talked about and better utilization? And then two within those 2 projects within Kitimat and Cameron I think some of the comments that have been made is the LNG projects and potentially GTL projects could have a greater probability of going sort of fixed-price versus cost-plus.
So can you talk about sort of the risks associated with those projects going fixed price? And then...
Well I think we're quite comfortable with fixed-price work.
We've done that for a lot of years.
It's just recently we -- our percentages have dropped.
So the fact that they are either negotiated lump sums or they're competitively bid lump sums we feel like we can be competitive and we feel like we can be profitable in executing those programs.
So I'm pretty confident about our ability to deliver on those projects.
With regard to some of the burn-off there are a couple of large projects but I'd remind you that percentages are interesting but not what I am most focused on.
I'm focused on earnings growth with these projects.
And if they have a fair amount of CFM in them so be it as long as we feel comfortable with the profit dollar growth.
So yes the one in Canada that has been a significant drag I think when you think of mining it's got the same pattern.
There's probably going to be a few more that we put in to backlog in the coming years that will have the same impact.
And when I think of just the percentages I'm interested in it but I'm more interested in the margin dollars.
And as I said we're seeing margin dollars increase in backlog which is I think is a good testament to our earnings power -- earning power going forward.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David so just following up on Oil &amp; Gas for a second you've done a good job here of keeping book-to-bill around 1 over the first couple of quarters of the year.
And I kind of thought your prospects might have been a little bit more back-end loaded.
So as we go into the back half of the year and into next year can you sustain that book-to-bill around 1? I know you're going to tell me it's lumpy.
But generally speaking can you sustain it? And then is it going to be really -- everybody continues to be focused on North America but it seems like you guys have just as many prospects internationally.
Would you sort of agree with that statement? I absolutely agree with that statement.
It's really good that the U.S.
is in a growth mode.
From an economic development perspective it's a great story.
And we're really well positioned as I said in most of those markets that are growing in the United States.
So that's a good story I think for the U.S.
in general and us specifically in executing those projects.
But as I said in my prepared remarks I mean whether it's Canada or Kazakhstan Asia continuing work in Australia I mean the opportunities slate -- as I think I've said in the past is as big as I've ever seen.
And I think we're very well positioned in most cases.
So to answer your first question as you said it will be lumpy.
But I think as we go through the next probably 6 quarters probably as far as I'd like to get out on a limb here I think you're going to see some of the same book-to-burn ratios.
There are a lot of big projects coming in between say the fourth quarter of this year and the fourth quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
So David let's take the Bay Bridge question out of the way.
So can you talk about the steel rod issue? There's obviously been some press on it.
Do you still assume performance incentives in your new EPS guidance? I mean how should we think about the risk of the project? Well I'll answer it this way.
The bridge as it stands today is significantly more safe than the bridge they're driving on.
The fix for the rods is well known and has been approved by Caltrans.
That fix is not a long-duration fix nor is it an impact on our ability to open this thing on time.
So I feel pretty good about the relationship that we've got with Caltrans.
I feel good about the fix and how it will progress as long as we get the approvals from them to execute.
There are some competing ideas on how you fix it but Caltrans has already picked the fix and we're going through the process.
We'll go next to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David in U.S.
chemicals in addition to the projects that you listed in the deck I'm wondering if you could just give us your broad overview on the industry.
How many more ethylene and propylene new build products do you expect to reach final investment decision within the next 12 months? And out of those can you give us a rough sense of how many you're pursuing? Well there's -- I think there's either 7 or 9 discussed in the open.
I believe by the end of the year there'll be 4 sanctioned.
I think that in addition to Sasol and Dow and the CPChem one the other one is Shell Franklin.
And I think that will be -- that decision will be made pretty quickly as well.
We feel pretty good about having a pretty high batting average there.
We're already batting 500.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of -- in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure excluding Mining I wonder if you could just flush out the bid opportunities you see over the next 12 to 18 months? To what extent can you deliver backlog growth in that part of the business? And I guess you're talking about Mining and Infrastructure separately is that your question? Research Division</strong> Yes so -- and for -- so the I&amp;I segment excluding Mining.
I think it's going to be hard to maintain backlog in that segment in the near term.
As I said I think towards the back half of next year is when Mining will come.
I think we've got great opportunities in Infrastructure.
We've got great opportunities in the Manufacturing and Life Sciences segment.
But those projects just aren't big enough to keep the backlog static.
So I think we will see some decline as we go through the end of this year and into next year.
I think overall I'm pretty pleased with the fact that we've kind of stopped the decline in backlog as a company when you think we've burned $7-point-whatever billion and we awarded $7.2 billion.
So I think that's a good sign that the Oil &amp; Gas engine is taking off but we still have a good robust business in Mining.
But I think for Mining backlog to kind of change to that northerly trajectory I think we got to get in to next year to see exactly what the Mining guys do and whether my prediction plays out or not.
Research Division</strong> And you've had some pretty significant wins at Tappan Zee recently.
Just to clarify the overall opportunities that -- on pure Infrastructure project outside of Mining is still as robust as it's been over the past couple of quarters.
Can you just help us get a rough sense of how deep that pipeline of opportunities is? It's pretty deep.
But I think it's one of these things where the gestation period on these projects is pretty long.
When you consider you're dealing with municipalities in some cases states and the governments and the like it just takes a little bit longer.
I think earlier in the year we were successful with Tappan Zee we were successful with the Horseshoe project in Dallas which clearly add to backlog and profitability going forward.
It's -- they're in their early stages of some proposals right now.
But my guess is that we won't see any real big awards in infrastructure until we get into fourth quarter or first quarter.
But they're working on some really good ones.
I'm really pleased with where they are.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just -- on the guidance change you didn't cite the LOGCAP slowdown which I calculated at about $0.04 of headwind.
Was there any other offset somewhere in there for that? And then I guess how surprised were you by that slowdown and how you're thinking about 2014? And then just one last one on the guidance of -- how does the Cerro Verde benefit in '13 compare against the headwind from Pascua-Lama? Let me get the mining one.
Pascua-Lama is basically delayed until we help them get their permit reinstated and part of that is a water project that we're actually executing right now.
I'd like to think that Pascua-Lama will be back on target as we get into next year.
I think that Cerro Verde basically replaces what Pascua was doing relative to burn.
So I think it kind of trades one for another.
Now on LOGCAP it's pretty consistent with what we thought.
And I'll let Biggs talk about the numbers specifically but we anticipated that there is going to be troop withdrawal in -- during this year but holding pretty steady on our ability to -- the headcount that we have is supporting both the war fighter as well as the infrastructure there in Bagram and the FOBs that are there.
It's always anticipated that we would go down a little bit which we're experiencing.
They stayed pretty stable because when the military withdraws if you look at Iraq as an example they displace military war fighters with people like us until the withdrawal is effected.
I don't believe you're going to see the 100% withdrawal that you saw in Iraq in Afghanistan.
And I think the administration is saying that there's a fair amount coming home this year and a fair amount next year but there'll be a significant force left behind that will be typically be housed at Bagram which we're responsible for.
So I think that whereas it will drop and it will be a hole we've got to fill up in earnings going forward.
It's not the cliff that I think a lot of people anticipate.
Biggs I don't know if you want to give any color to the numbers.
Yes the -- without going -- and literally calculating variances on a cents-per-share basis certainly yes lower volume on LOGCAP alone would create some reduction in the second half or the first half but there are some other opportunities within Government.
They have to offset that.
Also G&amp;A is running better by example.
Taxes had run better.
There are -- so there are a variety of moving parts when we look at resetting or when we're tightening the range as to what we considered.
There's probably a pretty good visibility for the remainder of this year on the LOGCAP run rate.
I think it's too early to call 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just to follow-up on Andy's question on the Bay Bridge thing.
Under what scenario or what's the risk that you have to take a charge on that or that it's a drag on earnings? And then I guess maybe conversely is there a chance that you'd still have some upside to what you're accruing in earnings right now? Well we haven't booked the incentives.
We typically don't book those until it gets to the point of having cleared all of the hurdles associated with it.
So there's no risk associated with that from the standpoint of anything we have on the books.
He asked was it in our guidance? And explicitly we don't put any one particular event or won't comment on it as to what's in or out in the guidance because we look at the prospects across all of our programs and all the potential outcomes and setting a range and you could always say something is -- something is there in the range because we considered it.
But it's also out of the range because others things could be there substitution of it so...
Well I don't see any downside either because the design and the specification of those was done by the designer which is Caltrans.
We're just a constructor on that so I don't see any repercussions relative to the solution.
We'll go next to Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a question on the backlog margin expectations.
I know you mentioned that your margin dollars and percentages have increased over the last quarter.
Can we expect that trend to continue for the next couple of quarters? Can you talk about some of the different moving pieces in the backlog? And also on the I&amp;I segment awards excluding this one large mining award your orders were close to $700 million so should we assume that sort of the run rate for the next couple of quarters or should we expect an improvement in that segment as well? I don't think you can expect to have the I&amp;I segment at $3 billion plus going forward.
But I wouldn't say that it'd be a substantial drop.
I think they've still got a lot of opportunities out there so there's a little bit of a decrease in the short term on their new award intake.
But again I think the projects just aren't as big.
But from a profitability standpoint I feel good about where we're headed.
Relative to the increase in margin in backlog that's always the good sign for us that things are improving.
I do believe that the quality of the backlog margin will improve as we go through the rest of this year and into next year.
And it's going to be primarily driven by our E&amp;C segment.
So I feel pretty good about where we are and the trends that we're seeing.
I wouldn't venture a specific number of quarters or a specific amount.
But just directionally it's improving and we expect that to continue for some time to come.
We'll go next to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the one thing I wanted to talk to you about was the Power side.
We've seen a regulatory impasse and paralysis.
But as I hear the utilities calls and have been monitoring their recent announcements seems like there seems to be some positive movement on retirements and new found replacement announcements.
So would love to get your thoughts if you're feeling a little better on the visibility on the Power side? I think we do feel a little better on the visibility.
And the projects that are being decided are primarily on the gas side as well as some typical of the plant betterment.
You're correct the lack of decision on the Casper rules I think put the power generators into a question of how do we comply without clear direction? And I think that does delay any significant work on fixing the coal fleet.
I do believe that they'll figure that out.
But when I look at the plant betterment piece that we do on the coal fleet I think there's a pretty good opportunity even without the regulations that are necessary.
But I'm particularly pleased with the power visibility to deal with the slowdown and do the right things relative to the organization and maintain their capabilities.
A couple of these projects that are ongoing are -- we're able to train that next wave of construction superintendent which I think is absolutely key to our future.
This project that we announced that we hope that will be sanctioned from Dominion is another example of direct-hire construction.
So I mean they've kind of been beat up.
We -- when I can tell you that within our company we've beat them up on the lack of growth but I do see some pretty positive signs.
Like I said as we get into next year and if there is a decision on regulation I think it only increases that -- the size of the opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a follow-up to that.
You had a nice return to profitability on the Power side this quarter.
There seems to be some positive movement on headline news in regards to DOE.
Any thoughts on new scale as you look forward which are incremental? Well we submitted our FOA the proposal in June and we're eagerly awaiting that.
The decision will be in September.
The decision's in September.
We continue to have dialogue with several potential investors and I think it's going exactly as we had planned.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So as you guys think about the Gulf Coast and the amount of activity you're tracking there what are you guys seeing develop maybe versus 3 months ago about potential bottlenecks whether it's process engineers or craft labor? And as you think about your fabricating strategy are there still holes you want to fill there? Or is the Philippines a real option for Gulf Coast fabrication? Well I'm excited about what's going on there.
We know how to do this and I love it.
The pinch points I don't think you're going to be project management or engineering.
It's like I said before it's going to be craft and attracting that next wave of craft employee to our company and to the industry frankly.
And that's why we've stepped out and invested in some training centers welding schools and making sure that we're taking advantage of the marketplace there with good talented people that have worked with us before.
So we feel really good about our position in able -- in being able to execute on our commitments to our customers even with the tightness in craft and I think that's going to be the pinch point.
Fabrication the quick answer to your question is absolutely the Philippines can be competitive.
And in fact in some of the programs we're looking at we utilize that yard that we have in the Philippines.
But we're also looking south to the yard that we've got with Grupo ICA in Tampico that we've owned for 10 years.
We're looking at expanding that yard.
And I think that as I said that's going to be the fun part.
I feel really good about our ability to deliver on these EPC projects in the Gulf Coast.
I'm excited about what's going on there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up in terms of your margin commentary around Oil &amp; Gas.
I guess as you talk about being comfortable with lump sum turnkey work and at the same time we're talking about projects that might still carry a high level of CFM embedded in the dollars you booked.
But as that lump sum works starts to move into backlog potentially here over the few quarters should we assume obviously you're getting compensated for that risk? Hope so.
To try and answer absolutely.
We're looking at these projects like we should be looking at them relative to the return on investment.
But I caution you from one perspective don't just focus on the percentage focus on the earnings dollars that are coming out of those programs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up to that is -- because talk about the earnings dollars and not the percentages -- but the returns I would presume then should also be compared favorably to what you may have seen historically even if the percentages are lower as long as the dollars are up and you're not committing extra capital to these jobs? Is that fair Biggs? Yes.
I don't see anything different about what will happen in working capital going forward at this point it ought to stay fairly normal relationships.
So that's just one of those -- it should be normal.
The next question comes from Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First how would you characterize the mix shift in Mining -- from Mining into sort of your Infrastructure business? Should we think about that as neutral to revenue next year? And how should we think about it from a profit contribution standpoint is it neutral or is it modestly incrementally positive? Well I think it's premature to give guidance next year.
But just in terms of talking about what will drive margins over time if you look out over a longer period of time certainly Mining is a lower-margin business.
So as we shift more to Infrastructure we do expect a higher margin rate.
Of course once again and as David said many times we really worry more about margin dollars than we do about rate.
But if you're trying to model it off of rate you would expect a shift over time.
That having said that doesn't necessarily mean that there's some near-term dramatic shift because as we close out mining projects and eliminate contingencies there's also a natural ability to have some improvement in margins if we successfully complete projects.
So that will support some higher margin out of the remaining mining activities that are in backlog.
And then the higher-margin Infrastructure activities is just going to layer on top of that so...
Well I think the only other thing I'd add is it really depends on whether or not my prediction is correct about mining projects coming back in the second half of '14.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And lastly on cash flow in the second half of the year and cash uses and possibly accelerating your buyback program should we think about sort of the cash sitting on your balance sheet as cash that's not going to be tapped for future uses of buyback program or acquisitions and therefore think that only future cash flow generation would be allocated towards those uses? Well we do time our -- base our purchases based upon cash flow.
So for the most part we don't go in and tap cash on the balance sheet.
There is some amount of flexibility there but our tradition is just a conservative and only repurchase based upon cash as it's generated.
The amount of cash in the balance sheet obviously has got some different components to it.
It's got some amount to it which is tied up in JVs and some which is restricted to projects based upon the structure of the advanced payments we have with some projects.
So it's always a little complex when you start to dive in and say how much of that is something we're comfortably [ph] using or not.
Plus on top of that we like to keep $1 billion or so in cushion for normal ebbs and flows of the business.
So I won't say there is 0 flexibility there but our tendency is to base repurchases on cash generated as opposed to what's already there on the balance sheet.
We'll go next to Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> David so a couple of your competitors talked about some of these large Oil &amp; Gas projects seeing some pushouts or delays in general.
I just wanted to get just your kind of take on that on some of these other ones that you're working on FEED or maybe almost looking at doing FEEDs.
Well I'll make a couple of comments.
One is the projects have gotten so much larger that companies are taking one more quarter to take a look at things and one more quarter to get the sanctioning from their boards.
But I would suggest that even with that it's kind of in line with what our expectations are.
When I think about the CPChem project that's pending they stuck with their schedule.
And in all cases Dow both in terms of the cracker and the PDH plants that we're doing stuck to the schedule that was -- what was originally planned.
And as far as that schedule sanctioning I don't think you're going to see any difference in Sasol I don't think you're going to any difference in Shell in that first wave.
And when you think about GTL when you think about LNG those projects are on track along with schedules that we saw.
So yes things have been pushed back but not in an unanticipated fashion if that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> And just maybe your thoughts on the LNG and kind of the approval process that's been going on broadly for those opportunities in the U.S.
and with the DOE? Kind of what's your expectation for the cadence of those approvals coming out and how does that affect your outlook there? Well I'm not sure I would venture a guess as to what the -- how the government -- how quickly the government's going to work.
I think that as I've said shale gas it's got 4 uses and it's going to be -- the cadence of them is going to be based on product.
Petrochemical obviously in the beginning I think some Power work is second.
When we think about Dominion and we think about the LCRA project that we're doing in Texas I think GTL is probably behind that and then LNG for export behind that and it's just a timing issue.
So when you think about it the biggest issue is can they get export licenses? But they're not going to export anything for 4 years even if you started the first one today.
So I think they're going to go along their normal schedule and it's in line with -- as I said in the previous question it's in line with our expectations on timing.
It's just going to take some time.
But again these are huge investments that these customers are making.
And I think that their own diligence is going to drive schedule decisions more so than regulatory decisions.
And the next question is from George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Talk a little bit about kind of the timing around expectations on Kitimat given your presence on kind of the rework of the FEED there by Chevron and then maybe some more color on timing around Mozambique project as well? Well Mozambique the schedule on that is sometime in '14 for the decision on who goes forward because that's a competitive FEED that we're doing.
So it's on track for some decision sometime mid next year.
Kitimat I'm not sure what that schedule is.
We're very pleased to be a participant on that project and doing a little bit of early works on that.
Others have done the same thing.
But I wouldn't venture a guess on the schedule.
I would make this comment though and I think my competitors would agree with this.
These projects are large and in some cases nobody's going to get the whole thing.
In some cases they will but I would say when you look at some of the bigger LNG plants and the GTL plants there's going to be several of us successful on significant pieces of those projects.
I tend to believe that Fluor is in a good position to do very very well.
But others will get work in this boom as well.
So let's make sure that when people talk about a $10 billion LNG plant I don't think anybody's going to get $10 billion of any of them.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes perfect sense.
And then if you just -- speaking generally if you look outside of the U.S.
and Canada and you talk about being at least equally as excited about the international opportunities could you talk about what regions are driving that and maybe what end markets within the regions are driving the excitement on the international front? Well it's the same dynamics.
But I think the regions -- we're still excited about what's going on in Canada.
We see growth in Canada.
The Middle East we see great opportunity there notwithstanding some of the political challenges on things like the refinery work in Kuwait but we still see great opportunity there.
We continue to see growth in Russia primarily Sakhalin and have done I think very well there.
China is still a good place even though you've seen the slowdown either from a petrochemical and a refining perspective.
They've got to keep up with not only demand but in some cases they've got to improve the environmental natures of their fuel if they're going to compete on the world market.
So when you think about China you think about Southeast Asia Malaysia Indonesia Vietnam all of these places have I think growth opportunities for us.
Australia it's kind of interesting.
They're taking a little bit of hiatus on the mining side but they're also trying to think through some of the dynamics around LNG export.
We're very successful in the upstream piece of Santos and I think that will continue.
But you're seeing people like Shell kind of pull back on projects like Arrow so I think there's a little bit of a wait-and-see attitude with regard to Australia but still I think a significant opportunity for Fluor.
South America both in terms of Brazil Mexico and Argentina we see growth opportunities in Oil &amp; Gas.
So it's a pretty global business and I think Peter Oosterveer and his team have done an outstanding job of diversifying the client base and diversifying the region to where we're not as beholding to a single country or region going forward.
I'm very bullish on what Oil &amp; Gas is doing.
I'm very bullish on what Mining is doing.
I mean if you think about it they went from a full out run to hitting a little bit of a wall.
And I think they've done a great good job of doing the right things in managing their business and making sure that they're maintaining the position with the customers and making sure that we are there when the crank gets turned again.
So I think geographically there's really no weak spots particularly given the petrochemical resurgence in the United States.
We'll go next to John Ellison with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> In regards to M&amp;A are there any sectors or areas that you'd like to expand into through acquisition going forward? I mean I think there's places within existing markets where we could strengthen our offering and we're actively looking at that.
When we've talked about this in the past there's really no consolidating moves that make sense so I think they will be niche in nature.
Some of them small some of them larger.
I don't want to pigeonhole but in a region I say that it's a precursor to the example I'm going to give you.
We bought a company in Mozambique called ServiTrade that has an equipment business but also owns one of the concrete batch plant -- one of 2 concrete batch plants in the country.
So that was a nominal investment to make sure that whoever needs the concrete can get it from us as an example.
So you're going to see us make acquisitions to give us a foothold in a specific country of growth.
I think you'll see us make some acquisitions in places where from a technical perspective we need -- we've got a little bit of a deficit.
But I think the beauty of Fluor is we're so diverse in terms of market and geography that we really just need niches to gain that foothold.
And I think that's what you can expect going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my last question you mentioned that you're training craft labor down the Gulf Coast in particular for the Dow Chemical project down there.
Is this allowing you to mitigate a meaningful amount of the labor or wage inflation? And do you expect that the impact of these programs will allow you to better position I guess for bidding competitiveness? Absolutely.
Absolutely.
But I think fabrication has a piece in that as well because part of mitigating the craft risk problem is taking some of the work off the site into a controlled environment.
And when you think about the yards that we've got basically we're mitigating that risk and controlling our own destiny which is something that I've said in the past.
So I think when you look at owning the craft and owning the fabrication you have the ability to mitigate a lot of the risk on costs that exist and hence give you better predictability even in a lump sum environment.
So I think we've done some things really really well to prepare for a change in the marketplace particularly in the United States and we're in a good position to capture that and deliver the -- expected profitability.
We'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I recall correctly one of your Middle East petchem projects had sort of come as one lump sum award because you didn't -- or the client didn't want to have to go back through NOC and government approval.
Just wondering if that's the same for a lot of the Gulf Coast crackers or are they going to be phased? And if so what parts of the project you're receiving now and what scope expansions we could receive later? Well in terms of Dow that full EPC value is in backlog and we're blowing and going on on that cracker.
With regard to Sasol we're in the FEED phase.
There's a sanctioning somewhere towards the end of this year early next year for that full EPC to be released.
The CPChem job we're awaiting decision or the information on that that would start into -- that would be basically a full EPC award.
I think Franklin follows the -- Franklin project for Shell follows the same model so it's upon us.
And I think the next big piece in Oil &amp; Gas is the release of some of the FEED work on the GTL-type projects in the Gulf Coast so it's -- I mean we're kind of in I think a long-term growth spurt that really fits us well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then it was sort of hinted at before but with possibly a little bit more lump sum being awarded in the Oil &amp; Gas segment.
Was just wondering if the earnings profile sort of changes the traditional Oil &amp; Gas where we could see it more like a Power and Infrastructure some of the earnings are back end loaded of a project.
Yes that would be my expectation.
And we'll take our final question from Mike Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> That's it.
I'm all set guys.
Okay.
Thank you operator for managing that for us and I really appreciate everybody participating on the call this morning.
Overall I think we delivered another solid quarter for both in earnings and a new award perspective.
I'm really confident with regard to our market position in things like petrochemicals but I don't dismiss mining in some of these other businesses that we are equally well positioned.
But in the case of E&amp;C I do see significant upside and additional EPC wins as we go through this year.
We will continue to win the FEEDs on many of these programs and I -- as I think I indicated I'm pretty excited about the LNG export facilities that we're pursuing as well as the gas-to-liquids market here in the United States as avenues for growth.
Finally I think we have a strong slate of international projects.
So it's interesting to talk about the United States again because it's been such a long time that we -- since we've had significant economic development in the U.S.
But our international prospect list is just as long and I continue to be very encouraged by our opportunity to grow the company.
With that again I really appreciate your interest in our company as well as your confidence in Fluor.
I hope everyone has a good day and goodbye.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fluor Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 6 at the following telephone number: (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 3521655 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thanks very much operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after market close and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks today.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2 of the presentation.
During today's call and presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today and in our Form 10-K which was filed on February 20.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
So with that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us on this Halloween.
We'll try to be brief so that everyone can go trick-or-treat.
Today I'll be reviewing our results for the third quarter our guidance for the balance of this year and we'll talk about the initial guidance for 2014.
If you turn to Slide 3 I'd like to begin by covering some of the highlights of the third quarter performance.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the quarter were $173 million or $1.05 per diluted share which represents an increase of 20% and 22% respectively over last year.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $311 million which increased from $278 million a year ago.
Segment profit resulted -- results reflect a 24% increase in Oil &amp; Gas as well as improvement in our Power segment.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter declined to $6.7 billion with growth in Oil &amp; Gas and Power segment which was offset by lower revenues in Mining &amp; Metals as well as our business line -- our Government business line.
New awards for the quarter were $5.6 billion including $2.4 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $1.9 billion in Government $846 million in Power.
Consolidated backlog for the quarter was $36.5 billion.
This compares with $37 billion last quarter.
Importantly margins in new award and backlog continued to track above levels we experienced a year ago.
Our financial results were summarized in the table on Slide 4.
And as you know full detail by segment is included in the earnings release.
Continuing my remarks on Slide 5.
Oil &amp; Gas awards for the quarter included our share of the engineering procurement and construction award for the Chevron Phillips Chemical ethylene (sic) [ethane] cracker project in Texas and award to debottleneck an existing oil sands facility in Canada.
The CPChem award to Dow Chemical cracker which was awarded to Fluor earlier this year and the FEED award for Sasol's proposed cracker were evidence that Fluor's strong market position in petrochemicals.
I feel very good about our capture rate in this very important market.
In addition to petrochemicals we continued to be optimistic about prospects for a number of LNG projects including the ongoing FEED for Anadarko's Mozambique project.
As well as in North America we expected to hear decisions in the next few quarters on our bids both for the Kitimat project in Canada and the Cameron project in Louisiana.
In downstream we continue to track several key prospects including refinery work in Mexico Canada as well as in Middle East.
We hope to receive full notice to proceed on the North West Redwater upgrader project in Canada within the next 2 quarters.
We continued to expect the demand for FEED work will translate into significant EPC awards over the next year 1.5 years.
Ending Oil &amp; Gas backlog for the quarter was $18 billion which is leveled with last quarter.
Moving to Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
New awards for the quarter were $472 million.
Backlog stood at $13.8 billion continuing its downward trend from $18 billion a year ago.
While a number of the new awards during the quarter were modest the group is pursuing a number of road and rail infrastructure projects in North America and several developing opportunities in Mining &amp; Metals.
I'm pleased to announced that the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge was completed and opened for traffic during the third quarter which was on time.
I want to commend our project team for its outstanding performance in delivering this complex project to our customer.
As you will know our success on this bridge was key to our winning the Tappan Zee project in New York earlier this year.
Now with regard to Barrick's announcement today on the Pascua-Lama project that is not a surprise to us.
It is evidence of more headwind that we have within our Mining &amp; Metals group and certainly we've taken that into account in our guidance range for 2014.
We fully expect to participate in this project and it's -- when it comes back in that phased approach that Barrick was speaking about.
And because of that our backlog will not change.
We're very confident in our ability to return to that project once they make their decisions and once you see some of the commodity prices return.
If you'll turn to Slide 6.
New awards for the quarter for Government were $1.9 billion including the annual funding of the multi-year Department of Energy contracts at Savannah River and Portsmouth and task orders on LOGCAP IV contract.
Ending backlog for the Government segment was $1.8 billion.
This compares with $1.6 billion a year ago.
With regard to LOGCAP IV we expect task order volume to continue to moderate downward as a number sites and personnel that we serve are reduced.
2014 we anticipate full year revenue of approximately $1 billion down from $1.6 billion in 2013.
I want to briefly address the government shutdown that occurred at the start of the fourth quarter.
While some of our competitors reported workforce furloughs fortunately the impact of Fluor's programs were minimal as most of our projects continued to be fully funded.
Moving to Global Services.
The segment reported $25 million in segment profit and $150 million of revenue for the quarter which compares to $29 million in segment profit and $159 million in revenue a year ago.
These modestly lower results were mainly driven by reduced contributions from the equipment business line in the quarter.
This group continues to be very active in supporting Fluor projects as well as external customers.
In Power new awards were $846 million which included $800 million for the clean energy gas-fired power plant for Dominion Virginia Power.
Backlog improved to $2.1 billion up from $1.6 billion a year ago.
And the Power group continues to track opportunities for new gas-fired plants solar facilities the plant betterment programs as well as work on some new nuclear facilities.
With that recap I'll turn it over to Biggs who will review some of the details of our operating performance and the EPS guidance.
With that Biggs? Thanks David.
Good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 7 of the presentation.
As David indicated consolidated backlog at quarter end was $36.5 billion.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog was 19% at quarter end up from 16% last quarter.
Major new awards in Oil &amp; Gas and Power drove our U.S.
backlog percentage to 34% up from 30% last quarter.
Moving to corporate items on Slide 8.
G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $46 million which compares with $41 million a year ago.
Increased expenses in the quarter were primarily due to higher stock price-driven compensation costs.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 29% which was lower than our expectations in large part due to an increase in earnings from noncontrolling interests for which income taxes are not typically the responsibility of the company.
Also current quarter taxes benefited from research and development credits while last year's third quarter was adversely affected by foreign tax charge.
We expect the tax rate for the full year to be approximately 30%.
Shifting to the balance sheet.
Fluor had cash and marketable securities of $3 billion at the end of the third quarter which is an increase of about $400 million from the previous quarter.
Cash flow from operating activities was $470 million in the third quarter driven mainly by earning sources and lower working capital including accounts receivable collections.
As we've discussed in the past we look at our actual cash balance on a daily basis and cash moved up as we approach the end of the quarter.
Despite some reductions in the balance since quarter-end based on our current view of cash flows for the balance of the year we plan to repurchase between $200 million and $400 million worth of shares over the next several months.
These amounts fall within the 11.8 million share balance available under the existing board repurchase authorization.
I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2013 and 2014 which is on Slide 7 -- Slide 9 excuse me.
Based on strong year-to-date results we are narrowing our guidance for 2013 to a range of $3.90 to $4.10 per share from our previous range of $3.85 to $4.20 per share.
For 2014 we're establishing our initial EPS guidance at a range of $4.10 to $4.60 per share.
This guidance reflects our expectation for double-digit profit growth in the Oil &amp; Gas and Power segments partially offset by the expected declines in the Mining &amp; Metals business and the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment and continued reductions in LOGCAP IV task order volume in the Government segment.
During 2013 we benefited from a number of favorable project closeouts particularly in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
Excluding those we are seeing I&amp;I's underlying quarterly earnings come down in line with revenue reductions.
As a result we expect our quarterly EPS in 2014 to start at a lower level and gradually recover throughout the year with stronger earnings in the second half than the first half.
Overall we anticipate flattish revenues in 2014 at a consolidated level but with an improving margin profile.
Guidance for 2014 assumes that G&amp;A expense will be in a range of $170 million to $180 million and effective tax rate of 32% to 33%.
Guidance for 2014 also includes some benefit from our expected share repurchases that I mentioned earlier.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David so total backlog has been dropping over the last year plus obviously because of mining.
Do you think that over the next year -- you talked about prospects over the next year 1.5 years in Oil &amp; Gas.
Do you think that those prospects can get Fluor to reverse that trend and start rising again total backlog? And then what's your conviction level that Oil &amp; Gas backlog can rise and get close to its previous peak that you did in '08 low 20s during this current cycle? Well I'll take those in reverse order.
I've got great confidence that over the next year 1.5 years that Oil &amp; Gas will return to that level or larger.
The question gets to be is what's the headroom -- I mean sort of the headwind that we've got from the shutdown of some of the mining projects in the near term.
I've remarked that mining like Mark Twain said mining is not dead regardless of what people say.
So there's a lot of opportunity there.
We're kind of retooling our offering there and I think we'll be greatly successful.
But if you think about our revenue profile over the last I don't know probably 2 years it's been heavily impacted by the mining burns.
So we've burnt a lot more so that curve's declining more quickly than the curve on E&amp;C new awards picked up.
So on balance we're kind of expecting a little bit flattish if not a little bit up in '14.
But I think what I'm more excited about is the improving margin in that backlog and our ability to drive more profitability to the bottom line.
But I really am bullish about E&amp;C.
You've heard us use the word lumpy in the past.
There's some really really large projects that are going to be decided over the next little while.
And we feel good about what we're going to be putting in the backlog but it's going to take time because they're so much larger and they're having to go back to their boards one more quarter and have these decisions made.
But I'm very bullish on where Oil &amp; Gas is and I feel confident that they can eclipse the former high.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful David.
I'll let Jamie ask the question about [indiscernible].
I want to ask you about I&amp;I margin.
In the context of -- I know you said in your Q that there are progress on 2 infrastructure projects.
Obviously one of them is probably Bay Bridge.
But when you look at the 5% margin you did in the quarter maybe Biggs could quantify for us what the impact of these progress milestone payments were.
And then as you look at the '14 do you think high 4s or 5% is achievable given the mix change that you're going to have? Well I think Andy you look at the third quarter certainly the margin rate was higher than it has run and it's higher than what we would expect going forward because of the significant pickup on a few projects.
The run rate earlier in the year was the low 4%.
Given the mix changes occurring I think going forward it's probably going to be closer to the prior run rate than it will be to that 5%.
But a lot will depend quarter-to-quarter on the maturity of different projects.
And when we hit milestones as projects either hit those milestones or complete it does enable a fair amount of profit recognition for performing well.
But they're not always smooth across the quarters.
And going into next year we don't see quite the same frequency of opportunity in that regard that we saw this year and has particularly showed up in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Biggs is it fair to say though that the underlying margin is still sort of in the low 4s but that underlying margin could be rising a little bit as you go through the quarters in 2014 given the mix change? Is that how we should think about it? I don't want to get too much specific than I already got by saying yes I think going forward it's going to be more like what we experienced the last few quarters but it can move around.
And so it's going to be tough to model on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
And a lot will depend upon how projects progress next year.
We'll go next to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David can you flesh out the magnitude of the infrastructure projects that you're pursuing from here and just if you don't mind step us through the timing of final investment decisions on those? They're mostly road.
They're mostly in the United States.
There are probably 3 to go to bid in early '14.
And I'm not sure I want to get any more specific than that but we do see a number of infrastructure-type programs.
I think what you're seeing is the thirst for the PPP model Public-Private Partnership model I think is only going to increase.
And I think there's few people as well-positioned as we are to participate in those.
Research Division</strong> And within your Chemicals franchise and nice award this quarter can you just update us on upcoming final investment decisions? How many do you think happened over the next 6 months for ethylene and propylene contracts? And then on the back-end once you're done with the work what's the opportunity set for follow-on work on derivative contracts once you have the main facilities built? Well I'm really pleased.
Thank you for that question because I'm really excited about that.
As many of you know I spend a lot of my career in that part of our business.
Obviously we've got 2 underway CPChem and Dow.
Those were nearly early stages obviously.
And some of those downstream derivatives will be awarded later.
We feel pretty good about our position on those projects.
We're in the process of completing the FEED on Sasol.
My expectation is there's a funding decision sometime early next year at least by the second -- by the middle of the year.
And that's the first I think piece of their investment there.
Right behind it you've got the gas-to-liquids programs that we're pursuing and have done some work on already.
I think they're -- they basically have sequenced them such that you won't have the huge peak in the craft manpower requirement that we were worried about frankly a year ago.
But there's Shell and there's Sasol and I think there's some other related projects.
And then I mentioned the LNG projects.
If you listened to my comments probably a year ago I had those backwards.
I thought that the gas-to-liquids would go before the LNG plants.
And I'm pleased that I'm incorrect because those projects are pretty large and are pretty mature in their development.
And as I said in the prepared remarks we're in competition for those projects.
But we feel pretty good about our position and our ability to deliver for those customers.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> And because Andy set me up David you're not off the hook.
Oh come on now.
Research Division</strong> I guess Dave look we're sitting here again it's a year later and your margins have been hovering in the high 3s.
And I guess in the context of you saying margin should improve next year how do we think about Oil &amp; Gas margins in particular as you're willing to take on some projects that have more fixed-price exposure which in my opinion says you should be looking for a higher margin because of the risk associated with that? So I guess that's my first question.
And then I guess my second question I don't know if it's for you or for Biggs.
Biggs you mentioned earnings first half versus second half.
It sounds like second half should be better.
Can you give color on that? And I guess at what point -- I think investors are sitting here saying "You imply earnings growth at the midpoint about 6%.
Why aren't we growing double digit?" And I mean could we get to grow more meaningful growth in the back half of the year just with the dynamics of Mining rolling off and LOGCAP et cetera? Well I'll start on the last one and then go to your first question ask Biggs to give color on the other.
As I said we're in a declining curve on the Mining projects.
At the same time we've got an inclining curve on Oil &amp; Gas and it's just not as mature enough to show the kind of percentage growth that I think that you're suggesting.
But I believe it's clearly in front of us.
With regard to your first question in the margin I think you're going to continue to see margin in our Oil &amp; Gas segment continue to rise every quarter over the next little while.
But I'd caution you because a lot of those projects are fixed-price and they're going to have a different curve than the refining boom that we enjoyed in the last cycle where there was pretty steady growth quarter-over-quarter.
It's going to look like a lot of the patterns of some of the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure programs where a lot of the profitability will fall out when we've mitigated the risk or passed that risk and have the ability to drop more profitability to the bottom line.
Research Division</strong> But David -- sorry.
Go ahead.
But clearly we expect in that backlog to have significantly better backlog on those fixed-price projects than we saw in the refining boom a few years ago.
Research Division</strong> So wait you said better margin in backlog so that would imply for sort of the first time you're thinking we could approach prior peak margins in Oil &amp; Gas or it's before you can play that down? You said that I didn't.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you said we can get the prior peak margins? I think we have the ability over time -- and I'm talking about the back-end of next year and as we get into '15 and even into '16 -- that we will get back to those peak margins in Oil &amp; Gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then sorry just Biggs just help me with the second half first half earnings just so we don't screw things up over here.
Okay.
I guess first of all on the year-over-year I think the midpoint of our guidance to '13 the midpoint of the guidance '14 is about 9% year-over-year.
Maybe I've got the calculation wrong but that's what I came up with.
But in terms of the trend just using the midpoint of our guidance for this year it would suggest a little bit lower fourth quarter as a result of some of the strong performance in Infrastructure not necessarily repeating itself in the fourth quarter and the Government business declining a little bit more in the fourth quarter over the third.
So that gives us a little bit lower run rate going into next year by itself.
And then we expect it to pick up as we go through the year as the Oil &amp; Gas business continues to develop.
And it's mix engineering and other content matters beyond just the one of what's the mix from a fixed-price or reimbursable standpoint.
So from a combination of effects we expect it to grow over the course of next year as the I&amp;Is and Government sort of moderate over the next couple of quarters and then Oil &amp; Gas starts to develop.
Research Division</strong> So declines in first half growth in the second half? I'm sorry.
Yes.
So our decline here in the fourth quarter...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then in the first half...
Turning over and then picking up from there.
Turning over to the first quarter next year and then picking up from there gradually.
Research Division</strong> So each quarter should see better growth sequentially? Probably yes slight growth second over the first and then sharper to the second half.
But a lot will depend upon the kind of things that we always talk about of how projects progress how they mature how we are able to increase our booking rates based upon hitting milestones and those kinds of things.
So pretty subjective to get too finite about it but the general trend would be that we fall off a little bit in the fourth quarter stay down in the first and then move up over time.
Jamie I applaud you you're the first one that's gotten guidance within the guidance.
Our next question comes from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just curious to get your thoughts on how we should think about LOGCAP and the decline of revenues in that investment next year.
Yes.
I mean LOGCAP you read the papers just like I do.
I mean the U.S.
military is pulling -- exercising the drawdown differently and more expediently than they did in Iraq.
And as I said we expect to go from $1.6 billion to probably $1 billion next year in revenue on LOGCAP.
I will say that it's still strong and we think it will quite frankly extend beyond '14.
But I would point you to the way the Government group -- I think it's been announced that we won the U.S.
strategic petroleum reserve.
So they've been really focused on growing their business and diversifying that business.
And we feel pretty good about that being a pretty stable business even though it will be down year-on-year because of how big LOGCAP is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just overall in terms of the GTL FEED activity.
Can you talk a little bit about a timing of that and when you expect to start to see some of that activity? I think the FEED activity will start to pick up as we get into next year probably the second half.
We've done some of the preliminary stuff on a couple of those projects.
But I think kind of the truth active FEED and then the EPC is back half half of '14 and into '15.
We'll go next to Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just going back to I&amp;I and Pascua-Lama the news that we heard today.
I just want to make sure are you assuming that there's no revenue contribution in 2014 and you're still keeping it in the backlog? Is that the way to think about it? There will be some revenue on it.
We've got to wind the project down effectively.
I mean there's only 2 months left in this project.
We did the water management program for them to help them with their permitting situation.
That is not complete.
So there'll be some in early '14 as we take that project down but clearly it's a chunk of work that comes out of our earnings stream.
But it's a suspension not a cancellation.
As I said I feel confident that we'll be a participant in that phased approach when they start that project back up.
Which they said probably won't be until maybe some of the planning work as we get into '14 but certainly '15.
And that's when I expect the Mining business will pick up again in general in early '15.
LLC</strong> And secondly on new scale so we're still waiting for the DOE to make its -- to determine who the other participants are.
Obviously there's been some delays I assume within that decision-making progress.
Maybe -- process.
Can you give us an update on how you see that unfolding? And is there an assumption that there's some sell-down in the stake in '14? There is an assumption to sell down in stake in '14.
I mean the government promised us that they were going to tell us in August.
It was a successful FOA recipient whether it's 1 or 2.
All indications are based on our proposal and the questions that have been asked that we're being seriously considered for one of those.
And just like most things with government right now we're just waiting and seeing but it doesn't change much of our strategy.
But clearly we're turning down spending to match what's necessary to meet the NRC requirements in our proposal.
LLC</strong> And so there's an assumption that your spending in '14 does decline based on your sell-down assumption? Can you provide that? Yes but I'm not going to quantify it.
We'll go next to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is really in regards to what you talked about David and as you put yourself on the spot by saying it's really near and dear to your heart which is why the petrochem work.
Clearly you've done pretty much close to a clean sweep in all the EPCs and some of the FEEDs that have come out on the ethane cracker side.
Could you talk a bit about perhaps your sort of third-generation modular technology and processes and how much of a role they've really played in winning some of this work as opposed to really slow going out and bidding aggressively? We spend a lot of time and effort in improving our systems and tools and utilizing more of a modular design approach in this way than in past ways for 2 primary reasons.
One we think that we have improved our design process to the point where we're actually lowering the cost of facilities.
The second is we had a -- obviously a fear of an overheated craft market and we wanted the ability to take part of that off of the job site into a more controlled environment thus improving schedule and quality.
So we've been able to affect that.
And I think it has had a positive effect on our competitive stance on those projects.
There's 4 in North America.
We won 3 and we're disappointed we didn't win the fourth.
But I think that we've got a competitive advantage now in how we are implementing our design tools and how that results in a much more efficient supply chain opportunity but also more efficient construction approach.
Research Division</strong> And the second question is really in regards to some of your international opportunities.
I know there's a lot of excitement around North America.
But when I look at my database I see you being on the forefront of a couple of fairly large upstream opportunities even in the Middle East.
I would love to get an idea of really looking outside of the U.S.
what you think are really exciting opportunities for you from a backlog standpoint into next year.
Well I think we'll start with the Middle East.
There's a lot of projects coming both upstream and downstream that we're pursuing and feel pretty good about in refining market.
Kuwait is an example.
The clean fuels programs or the bids are under development as we speak.
I'm not optimistic that the fourth refinery will actually be bid until late next year if not into '15.
But those programs have been on kind of a quiet phase for quite some time.
But we're very active in the proposal steps on the clean fuels piece of that.
We're very bullish on the upstream market particularly with the ADMA-OPCO Parvana in the UAE.
We continue to win front-end work with them relative to gas processing and I think that we'll see some success there.
So the Middle East in general I think just 2 places give us great optimism for growth outside the United States.
Kazakhstan the continuing on TCO the next phase is there we feel very good about as well as some of the major pipeline programs that are there in Russia and Kazakhstan and the former Soviet Union.
In China there is a fair amount of refining work.
And again we've been able to participate in that.
We are one of the few -- I think we're the only Western contractor that has our own design license and our own construction license.
So that gives us competitive advantage in China.
But we're also seeing opportunities in places like Singapore and other places in Southeast Asia in the refining sector that are quite optimistic.
Australia continues to go.
I'm not sure when this next phase of Santos will go but we feel pretty good about finishing that -- the first phase of that project on time and feel good about the next phases.
So ending in Canada we're really excited about the gas in the States but Canada the refinery there continuing work in the oil sands I think we've made some step change in our skill set and the people we have around SAGD.
And some of those programs are in their early stages.
So all that together I mean I'm really bullish about what Oil &amp; Gas group can do over the next 3 to 5 years frankly.
And I think that with some of the improvements I mentioned in our tools and systems and how we go about projects and taking more of a direct hire and controlling some of the fabrication I think it gives us a competitive advantage and I see great headroom in that part of our business.
We'll go next to Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> David you talked about those increasing fixed -- number of fixed-price projects.
How much risk are you willing to put in the backlog at this point? And then has your perspective changed on that as things in the marketplace had been a bit slower than expected? I wouldn't say it changed the slowness.
I mean we kind of anticipated it.
Because these projects are getting so large there's a little bit longer gestation period on them.
So that's not a surprise.
On the lump-sum piece I'll answer 2 ways.
One we've been as high as 45% 50% of our backlog in fixed-price primarily in the days when we were doing a lot of the Power work.
But because of that Power work and that experience we've been able to transfer some of that knowledge over to our Oil &amp; Gas business that kind of is the underpinning of our confidence of being able to deliver more lump-sum in Oil &amp; Gas which is supported by the improvement in tools and systems that I spoke of in Tahira's question.
So we're still what less than 20% fixed-price.
There's great headroom in our comfort in moving that number north.
But I'm much more confident in our execution capability today than I have been in some time and it's because we have invested in those tools and systems and we have been successful in moving people around that have that expertise.
So I feel pretty good about our position of being able to not only be competitive but to deliver the profitability that's expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Biggs what opportunities do you foresee in 2014 to repatriate any of your international cash? And then do you anticipate just generally generating more U.S.
cash next year? As far as the first question goes we really can't repatriate today without too much tax consequence.
The cash that we see as being really not readily available is the cash which is either tied up in joint ventures or for which it's in a form of a customer advance tied to a specific project.
That's why we have a tendency to most carve out and say we really can't use that for operating purposes outside of specific projects to which they're tied and that we don't count on from the standpoint of having the kind of cushion we need to have for liquidity.
So although there can be some inefficiency with international we have taken into consideration that it's not the big driver of what we have available.
The big driver is what was tied to projects JVs and what's the amount of liquidity we just feel like we need to maintain.
Do think that with the growth in domestic business and the increase in the backlog evidencing that that we will see more cash generation domestically.
However as I said that's not necessarily a big driver of our redeployment considerations it's more a matter of do we have excess liquidity beyond $1 billion or $1.5 billion cushion that we feel like we need to have and are there any other better investment opportunities.
If there aren't better investment opportunities and after we have continuously satisfied our dividend commitments or chosen increase and then that's when we look to share repurchase.
We'll go next to Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David 2 quick questions.
First on the LNG space in North America a little bit bigger picture.
You're quite involved now these days.
How much room you think there are in North America including Canada even maybe a longer-term project that could happen in Alaska I hear from one of your customers do you foresee? And is Fluor positioned to take a lot more than we see right now or are you comfortable with your positioning? I'm pretty comfortable with our positioning and we want to make sure that we're focused on the ones that are going to happen the quickest.
I think that there is a lot of growth for us.
I mean I'm very happy with our relationship with JGC.
I work with JGC for at least since the early '90s on different programs.
I have great respect for their capability.
And the relationship that we've created there actually makes us part of that club and that's a part -- that's a club we haven't been -- haven't had access to.
So I feel really good about where we are I feel good about the competitive bids that we've put in on the 2 that the bids were actually active including the fact that we're one of the FEED contractors on Mozambique.
I think that there's a challenge on Mozambique from a timing standpoint but notwithstanding that I still feel good about our position to continue to participate in that program.
I think when you think about the whole gas play in my previous comments I thought petrochemicals would go first which it has.
I thought LNG would be last which is not.
And I think the question gets to be is at what point does the supply -- the demand start to outstrip supply and what happens to gas prices.
I don't think we're going to see dramatic rise.
But LNG is a global commodity and I don't know why the U.S.
would look at that any differently than the rest of the world.
I think that the flows are going to change relative to who gets what flows around the world.
But I feel pretty good about our position and we're going to take this one -- one project at a time and make sure that we can execute that project with excellence and deliver the profitability.
I mean they're big programs big projects.
We've got a partner that we're dealing with that we're happy with.
So I feel pretty good about where we are.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up David on Power.
A likelihood of 1 or 2 similar type bookings in 2014 than what we witnessed there in Virginia? Well I think we're continuing to work on the front-end to several gas-fired power plants.
If the economy continues to improve in the United States you're going to see an improving demand in electricity usage.
At the same time once we get the environmental regulations and rules exacted from the EPA and otherwise I think there's going to be a demand.
Whether it's -- when it is in '14 or whether it even moves in '15 I really -- I have no clue right now based on what's going to happen with the regs.
But I feel good about our position and the fact Bear -- or the Dominion project is up and running -- I mean up and off to a good start from an execution standpoint.
So our ability to prove that we can execute is clear.
We'll go next to Andrew Wittmann with Baird.
Research Division</strong> David I just want to kind of dig into the earnings cadence as we move into '14 a little bit more.
How much of the bookings -- or how much visibility through bookings that are already on the books are in place today that gives you confidence with the earnings ramp as we go through '14? In other words how much is there today versus what needs to be won to get that second half acceleration? Well 2 comments.
I know I'm going to regret my comment about the Giants at some point in the near term.
Secondly the fact that Jamie got Biggs to give you guidance within a guidance gives you an answer that we feel pretty good about profile of EPS as it goes through the quarters next year.
We feel pretty good and have great visibility into how we're going to get there.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of the buyback coming out of the last quarter.
It sounded like you're pretty confident that you wanted to kind of use the timing in the cash flow.
The cash flows in the quarter were pretty good.
Yet you didn't buy stock.
Was there something that changed in the quarter about the way you viewed the capital allocation? Or can you just kind of take us through the process why nothing happened in this quarter? In the near term you're saying you'd come back and do this now.
So I'm just wondering kind of was there a change in the thought process in the last 3 6 months how you're looking at buyback and cash flow? There's really been no change in our philosophy.
As I said in my comments the cash built up towards the end of the quarter and we have a pretty good view towards just staying high or cash generation being good through the rest of this year.
So it just was an ample trigger to go ahead and commit.
So I think rather than spending a lot of time on what the -- all the circumstances were of the last quarter last few quarters I focused more about the fact that we've stepped out and made a commitment that we're going to spend $204 million over the next several months.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe the last question here is just talking about labor utilization knowing that there is eventually going to be a substantial ramp.
And David you've been pretty outspoken about thoughts about constraints on labor.
Can you just talk about where you are today on that and how much the floor model has in terms of leverage from underutilization if could go to well-utilized labor in the next quarter or 2 and what that could mean to your margins? Can you just give us some context about where your people are being built today? Well I think in addition to my comments about the tools and systems we also I think have perfected the dispersed execution models where we have greater capacity because instead of taking Houston to 5 000 people again we can grow the entire portfolio and be effective in how we do design.
And that's the designs side and the project management side.
So we feel pretty good about our ability to scale this thing up quite a bit in the near term and over the long term to serve as the Oil &amp; Gas boom.
But also it's kind of retooling our organization with some pretty talented folks.
And I'm really pleased it's where we stand there.
From the craft side we've invested in training programs and in Texas and Louisiana so that we can get a head start on that craft.
We do believe that we're an employer of choice in that marketplace.
And early indications are based on -- in our past and the fact that we are a direct-hire constructor I think what we've seen in terms of interest in those training programs interest in getting lined up for the projects that we already have going on like Dow Freeport and some other things we feel pretty good about our ability to scale the craft resources as well.
If you think about the petrochemical boom we're the -- we've got the first 3 of the big programs in Louisiana and Texas.
So we'll be the first one staffing those people and have that following that we're going to need to continue as we get into the bigger projects in LNG gas-to-liquids and power and some of the other programs that are out there for us in the southeastern region of the United States.
So I feel pretty good about our position and I feel pretty good about our ability to kind of turn the crank here and get the people we need to be successful.
I might just add.
You asked about labor.
But certainly as you look at not just labor but nonlabor components of our overhead costs as E&amp;C ramps up there will be benefits to their margins from increased leverage I guess overhead.
So it will be a contributor.
We have -- as David said we have the labor capacity and ability to grow across the world but from an overhead standpoint there will be improved leverage as well contributing.
We'll go next to Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
David or Biggs maybe you can identify 1 or 2 sort of primary variables that could result in earnings of either $4.10 or $4.60.
And then I have a follow-up.
Why don't we move to your follow-up? That would be guidance within the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Well if I could expand upon that a little bit do you think it's the timing of certain projects or do you think it's sort of the margin profile of what's in backlog and how that comes through the P&amp;L? I think it's more timing more than anything else.
Clearly things like Pascua-Lama and the headwind that that presents is included in that range.
But barring any more cancellations I feel good about where we are in the visibility again and to how we're going to get there.
But I think between the low and the highs it's clearly a timing element.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly if we were to exclude Pascua-Lama because I think we all understand what's going on there any other sizable projects that were canceled or delayed in the quarter? No.
We'll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch a little bit on plans for and uses of cash.
I mean I appreciate the plans to step up the repurchases but when you generated a lot -- $470 million in the quarter you're holding a lot of cash.
David any thoughts there on this cycle some reasons that you have to hold more going into it or just waiting for the right opportunity? Well I mean as Biggs said I don't think our strategy or how we think of this has changed.
I think when you look at the headwinds that were there around a government shutdown and all of the challenges that we've seen in front of us I think it was prudent to kind of -- to wait and see.
I think there's a lot of uncertainty out there.
And I believe that having a healthy cash balance allows us to do what we need to do to prepare to grow.
I don't think there's any magic in why it's a fourth quarter first quarter buying bench if you will.
But I think that as we go through next year you'll see a more normal buyback process because we do think that we're going to generate excess cash over what we think we need which I appreciate is a different number than what you guys think we ought to have.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And are you still of the mind that you're better off building capabilities than buying them? Well I think we've proven that we know how to grow organically pretty well and we have great control over that.
I do believe that there are some weaknesses and maybe some holes in our current offering from a market perspective and from a geographic perspective.
And we're going to look to see how we fill those holes.
And I think that some acquisitive growth mentioned in its makeup is something that we've got to consider pretty directly as we get into '14.
We'll go next to George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on that last question.
Maybe some of the areas that you're considering or some of the holes that you're considering what I guess segments would those fall into? Well I'd say across the board.
I mean we've got a good position in all the markets that we're in but we can always get better.
And I think that there's some room in our Oil &amp; Gas offering and the upstream piece that would be helpful.
Also I think there's room in our government offering based on some of the changes that we're seeing.
I think there's also opportunity when we think about infrastructure.
But what that means and what shape that takes I think that I'd caution you with our conservatism and the fact that we grow organically pretty well.
And again because I believe we're an employer of choice we got the ability to go get the critical people we need pretty readily and then build from there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then last question for me.
With Cameron and Kitimat both coming up I think the expectations so that both of those projects kind of hit in the first half of next year and potentially Q1 of '14 I guess first are you kind of onboard with that timeline? And then second how do you feel you guys are in the running for the KBR project given there's -- sorry for the Kitimat project given there's a couple of bidders there? Thank you for that correction.
That would be a new something I didn't know.
I wouldn't -- I feel really good about our position.
Basically it's -- we're competing against one other consortium in both cases.
I feel really good about where we stand on both of them.
I'm not sure that I agree that both will hit in the first half of next year.
I think one will and I think one will push out later in the year.
We'll take our final question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the receivables coming down and the government mix dissipating do you see the opportunity that -- I know you gave your EPS guidance range but that the operating cash flow in 2014 could be a little bit higher than that range.
For the government I mean it's a very steady payer.
But certainly on the Government business as revenues come down there should be less tied up in working capital that's true.
Of course on the E&amp;C side we've got growing activities and so that's going to take some working capital.
I think all in all the relationship between working capital and revenues should be largely the same 2014 as 2013.
But I just have to caution everybody.
When you have very large projects there could be some very significant payments that come in that could come in the day before the end of a quarter and the cash balance goes up; and they come in a day later when the cash balance goes down.
So if while we look at it on a day-to-day basis and see what's happening and so you have some volatility quarter-to-quarter but looking at it on sort of a normalized run rate basis we'd expect a similar relationship between working capital and revenue next year as this year as I said.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed it but where you think corporate G&amp;A shakes out for 2013? Right.
I guided I think to $170 million to $180 million.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Or for 2013? I'm sorry I gave 2014.
I didn't give a distinct number for 2013.
And gentlemen that was our final question.
So I'll turn it back to you for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And thanks to everyone participating on the call this afternoon.
I appreciate your interest in our company.
As I think I've expressed I feel pretty good about our financial performance so far this year particularly given the short falloff that we've seen in the Mining &amp; Metals market.
Our Oil &amp; Gas and Power and Infrastructure businesses have all performed well and are delivering I think strong growth in '13.
Importantly the Oil &amp; Gas segment has been very successful as we've said in capturing the key awards during the year that we signaled in positioning ourselves quite well for substantial new awards and as we get to '14 and beyond.
I want to reiterate that we think that we're in the early stages early innings if you will of a substantial multi-year Oil &amp; Gas investment cycle and our market position and prospects for growth are extremely strong.
And I think our outlook is very positive.
We greatly appreciate your interest in Fluor and your confidence in our company.
And I wish everyone a safe Halloween and a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time and have a great day.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fluor Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year End 2013 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow management's presentation.
A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
A web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on February 24th at the following telephone number 888-203-1112.
The pass code of 5357718 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thanks very much operator.
And welcome everyone to Fluor's Fourth Quarter and 2013 Year End Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
As you know our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks today.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the Company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today as well.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are also posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
So with that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David?  Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us.
On today's call we will review fourth quarter and full year 2013 results and also discuss our outlook for 2014.
If you turn to Slide 3 I would like to start with 2013 full year performance.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for 2013 were $668 million or $4.06 per diluted share which is up from $456 million and $2.71 per diluted share in 2012.
Our financial results in 2013 met our expectations and we continue to be very encouraged by the significant and sustained progress of our Oil &amp; Gas group.
Consolidated segment profit for 2013 rose to $1.2 billion up from $769 million a year ago.
Increased segment profit for 2013 reflects growth in Oil &amp; Gas power and government segments partly offset by declining in mining and metals.
Fluor's Oil &amp; Gas business posted especially strong results with a 32% increase in segment profit strong revenue growth and margin improvement.
Consolidated revenue of $27.4 billion for 2013 was comparable with 2012 reflecting growth in Oil &amp; Gas and power which was offset as I said with revenue reductions in other segments.
Full year new awards were $25.1 billion comprised of $12.9 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $6.6 billion in industrial and infrastructure and $4.1 billion in government with $1.5 billion in power.
Consolidated backlog at the end of the year was $34.9 billion which compares with $38.2 billion a year ago as I said reflecting continued decline in mining and metals awards and the fourth quarter cancelation of our contract for Pascua Lama in South America.
If you would please turn to Slide 4 for some recent highlights.
In the fourth quarter the Oil &amp; Gas segment booked new awards of $4.2 billion including the North West Redwater refinery upgrade project in Canada and additional scope on a major upstream gas processing project in Kazakhstan.
Ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas segment rose 10% from a year ago and at $1.3 billion sequentially to end 2013 at $20 billion.
As you know in January we announced the award of an engineering procurement construction contract by Chevron and Apache for the proposed Kitimat LNG facility in British Columbia.
We are extremely pleased we selected with our partner JGC for this strategically important project which is on track to become Canada's first major LNG production and export terminal.
We believe that winning this project positions us well for other full scale LNG projects.
In industrial and infrastructure the backlog at the end of the year was $10.5 billion which is down from $17.2 billion last year.
This decline was driven by lower mining awards in 2013 and the fourth quarter cancelation of Pascua Lama which I noted earlier removing $1.8 billion from our backlog.
While we continue to support the water treatment facilities for Pascua Lama and helping wind down the project our original EPCM contract has been canceled.
Fourth quarter new awards in industrial and infrastructure were $340 million including a number of maintenance contract renewals.
If you would turn to Slide 5 the Government group posted fourth quarter new awards of $1.1 billion.
Our ending backlog at 2013 was $2.4 billion.
In the Power segment fourth quarter new awards were $146 million including early engineering on a proposed nuclear facility in U.S.
and renewal of several power maintenance contracts.
Ending backlog for Power was $2 billion which compares to $1.9 billion a year ago.
During the quarter NuScale was selected by the Department of Energy to receive funding that will support the development licensing and the commercialization of the Company's nuclear small module reactor technology.
We're in the process of negotiating the terms of the agreement with DOE which is expected to provide approximately $200 million in cost sharing funds over the next four years.
We are pleased with DOE selection in NuScale which we believe provides independent validation of our view of the commercial viability of a safe reliable and scalable small modules of reactor technology.
We're in the process of seeking potential investors manufacturers and other supply chain partners.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Biggs to review the details of our operating performance corporate financial metrics as well as our outlook for 2014.
Biggs?  Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 6 of the presentation.
I want to start by providing some additional comments on our performance for the fourth quarter.
Revenue for the quarter was $6.3 billion which compares to $7 billion last year mainly due to a significant reduction in the mining and metals business line.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $167 million or $1.01 per diluted share which compares to a loss of $4 million of $0.03 per diluted share in 2012.
As you may recall the fourth quarter net loss of $0.03 in 2012 was affected by $1.61 per share charge on an offshore wind farm project a $0.17 per share benefit from the sale of our interest in a Telecommunications Company and a $0.26 per share benefit from the favorable resolution of various tax items.
The effective tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2013 was approximately 31% including benefits from research and development tax credits and a domestic production activity deduction which were partially offset by the adverse tax effect from foreign loss without tax benefit.
Fourth quarter segment profit was $318 million including improved contributions from the Oil &amp; Gas Global Services and Government groups.
Turning to Slide 7 Government results in the fourth quarter included approximately $57 million related to the favorable resolution of various issues with the U.S.
government.
There were essentially three separate events that made up to $57 million and these are discussed in our Form 10-K.
We assumed a certain amount of benefit to result from these items in our guidance but we didn't necessarily expect all these issues to get resolved in the fourth quarter.
While it may seem somewhat unique it is similar in nature to close outs that we regularly see in the commercial business lines when contingencies [ph] are released upon resolution of the associated issues.
Partially offsetting these benefits were increased proposal and other overhead costs in the government group in the quarter.
With regard to government backlog beginning this quarter we elected to include the unfunded portion of our multi-year government contracts at Savannah River and Portsmouth in order to be more comparable with industry practice.
The fourth quarter 2013 included new awards and unfunded backlog of $983 million.
We will separately identify the unfunded amounts in our financial reporting going forward.
Moving to Slide 8 as previously mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog at year-end was $34.9 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog was 20% at quarter end and the mix by geography was 36% U.S.
and 64% non U.S.
Turning to Slide 9 corporate G&amp;A expenses in the fourth quarter of 2013 were $65 million which compares with $41 million a year ago a significant rise in our stock price during the fourth quarter gross stock price driven compensation expenses higher by 12 million.
G&amp;A also demonstrated a more normal seasonal trend in 2013 which resulted in higher fourth quarter expense.
Shifting to the balance sheet Fluor's financial condition remains very strong with cash plus current and non-current marketable securities totaling $2.7 billion.
This compares with the balance of $2.6 billion a year ago.
During 2013 the Company generated $789 million in cash flow from operating activities repurchased $200 million worth of Fluor shares and paid out $79 million in dividends.
In its most recent meeting Fluor's Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly dividend to a new rate of $0.21 per share up from $0.16 per share.
With regard to share repurchases we repurchased $200 million worth of shares in the fourth quarter and are in the process of repurchasing another $200 million more in the current quarter.
As a result Fluor's Board has approved a 6 million share increase in the Company's share repurchase authorization which after considering first quarter repurchases will bring the total number of shares available for repurchase to over 12 million shares.
I will conclude my remarks by providing an update on our guidance for 2014 which is on Slide 10.
We are encouraged by the Company's strong prospects for continued growth especially Oil &amp; Gas.
We are maintaining our EPS guidance for 2014 at the previously announced range of $4.10 to $4.60 per diluted share.
We expect the first quarter 2014 to be lower than the fourth quarter of 2013 as reported and then expect steady quarterly improvement for the balance of 2014.
Guidance for 2014 assumes that G&amp;A expense will be in the range of $170 million to $180 million an effective tax rate of 32% to 33%.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
The Oil &amp; Gas margins had a nice uptick in 4Q; you've been talking about it.
Do you think you're still on track for the 5% margin that you sort of alluded to in the second half of this year? And could you tell us how much of the improvement that you saw in 4Q is based on better mix versus better pricing? And then maybe just a follow on to that David around do you have to take extra risk to get to these higher levels because we do notice more of us can [indiscernible] that Flour is taking.
So maybe you can talk about that? First I am pretty bullish on where we're headed with Oil &amp; Gas.
I think the early wins that I mentioned and have been in the press here the last couple of days I think do a couple of things for us.
One it validates our ability to capture our fair share or maybe more than our fair share of some strategic programs at margins that should see rise.
I stick with my previous comments about the margin going up.
I wouldn't predict when but I think that I would be disappointed if we didn't start with a five as we get towards the end of this year or early next year because I think we're kind of in the early beginning stages of these programs and as you say there are some fixed price projects that will be like the Power and Infrastructure programs where significant profitability drops in at the end.
We have not seen our risk profile increase based on the new awards that we're booking right now.
Yes there are some that are fixed price in nature but I would say that we feel very comfortable in taking the projects that we are on a fixed price basis and that's not just in Oil &amp; Gas but I would say across the Company.
We feel pretty good about our ability to execute against that.
I think the increase that you're seeing is part of the mix change but I think it's also a recognition that we've got a value proposition that lets us get paid for the value that we provide.
I just feel really positive about where we are and where we're headed.
I have great confidence in our teams in being able to deliver the profitability that we expect.
David that's really helpful.
And then maybe kind of a similar question around backlog.
Can you talk about your confidence that your overall backlog can rise from here as mining sort of washes out here and as you continue to book Oil &amp; Gas and then do you need one of the big LNG projects that we've booked in 2014 Oil &amp; Gas backlog to continue to rise? There is no doubt in my mind that backlog will increase as we get started in 2014.
Well I guess a couple of questions.
One your wins in Oil &amp; Gas have been fairly impressive.
Your market share is sort of at unprecedented levels.
Can you talk about your concerns overall with capacity that you have just given how much work that you've won? And I think the other dynamic that was very interesting last cycle was you were -- the market got high enough and you were in such demand that you got to a point where you really wouldn't do the feed work unless you pretty had a higher than average probability of getting the EPC.
Can you talk about where you are with your customers and in that regard? And then I guess my last question is you won so much in Oil &amp; Gas already.
I mean when you think about your prospect list for 2014 can you just sort of size that versus where we were sitting here last year just because you've already won so much work year-to-date? Thanks.
There's always a but with you Jamie.
And Peter got a promotion.
So I assume that means great -- better than 5% margin towards the end of the year.
You're not asking that question.
I think we've just began with regard to Oil &amp; Gas.
Granted I think that there are some very large programs that will come into backlog in the first half of the year but there is a lot more out there that we're pursuing.
So I think that what's in front of us today is much bigger than what it was in the last cycle.
And I think what we've done and how we've invested in our people and our tools and systems over the last two or three years have really taken a lot of the question relative to capacity out of our equation.
We feel really good about the talent that we've got to execute these projects.
We feel really good about how we've kind of changed the game and how we plan to execute these projects.
I think the teams have an outstanding job.
Now whether that translates into higher prices I think the market will tell.
I think we're pretty pleased with the margin and backlog that's going to come in over the several quarters.
But as far as capacity we feel good about where we are.
I think the other element that I would suggest is we have seen some of projects kind of get pushed a little bit -- Shell GTL which we were doing some work on has obviously been postponed if not cancelled.
Sasol is kind of pushed out a little bit.
So when you think my comment a couple of quarters ago I was worried about the craft content and whether we could turn the crank and add those kind of people.
I was worried then I'm not worried now.
I feel really good about our ability to attract the best and brightest globally frankly on the craft side to get these things done.
So I feel pretty good about where we are.
As I've said to you guys before -- I want the clients project all the time; not just on a onetime basis.
So price gouging and doing those things don't make good strategic sense to me.
So we're going to be comfortable that that we're getting the return we expect and so far I would suggest that we're doing quite well in adding to the value that's in our backlog from a gross margin standpoint.
Okay and then I guess just one follow-up.
On the quarter while the Oil &amp; Gas was great and I guess that's all that people care about.
If you backed out the gains that you got in Government which I understand happened but whatever and you look at the underlying profitability of Government the underlying profitability the decline that you saw in Industrial in Infrastructure and the Power business those businesses I feel like the profitability were below what I would have expected.
Can you just talk about where the quarter on those businesses shaped out relative to your expectation? Then I'm done sorry.
There is a lot of moving parts.
Biggs can comment on any specifics that he cares to but I'd remind you guys that we're probably the only company in our space that's as diversified as we are from a market perspective.
And if you go back a year and half ago we're really happy about the margins coming out of Mining and the margins coming out of Industrial and Infrastructure in general; and that will return.
There is a cyclical nature to our business and I think our diversity and our focus on that I think helps us over the long term provide profitable growth for our investors.
So I feel really good about that strategy of diversity.
Now with regard to the puts and takes in the quarter I think we are pleased with where we are given those circumstances.
As Biggs said in his prepared remarks what would be considered by some when they read the data as onetime events; we don't look at that way.
It's profitability that we expected in the closeout of some of those projects and how the government deals with contractors.
So whereas it looks on usual it didn't surprise us at all given where we are.
We didn't think that one of the settlements would actually come in the fourth quarter.
So we're pleased it did but I think the value of the margin in backlog and all our market segments I'm pleased with given where they are in their cycles.
But I'd also tell you that we're really focused on the cost side of the equation and I think as we go through one of the -- to answer part of the Andy's question part of it is I think Peter in Oil &amp; Gas has done a really job of rightsizing their organization and readying it for this next wave.
David can you update us on your expectations for final investment decision on Mozambique LNG how is that project tracking and can you just talk about your intent to bid on the project -- should we look for a similar full fabrication cost paid that you delivered on Kitimat.
Yes.
We have submitted our technical proposal in March which is followed up I think in six weeks with a priced proposal.
I'm not exactly sure.
It's close there behind.
And then they will go into a quite mode and evaluate which ones will be their contractor.
We feel good about how we worked with the customer.
We feel good about the offering that we've got.
We're really pleased with our partner JGC and how they are helping us and how we are helping them.
So we will see but I think any decision is probably late year and we'll see where it goes from there.
And David just to clarify the decision by end of year do you need a final investment position or down select how the process will play out? You'd probably have to ask Anadarko.
I mean I know that they've extended some of the delivery dates in the past.
I think that we are going to stick with the plan and they make a down select decision in late this year and there never was a final FID in '14.
I don't believe.
So I think the final final is sometime next year.
And U.S.
infrastructure opportunities can you give us an update how the opportunities set for Fluor bookings over the next 12 to 18 months based on major projects that you are evaluating? While we have had several -- a lot of proposal activities at this second place over the last little bit waiting on several programs.
I think we're kind of in a lull to be honest with you.
I think that the public-private partnership approach is gaining speed in the United States and I think we've got a distinct advantage in that.
I think state laws are having to look at how they allow that because not all states allow for a public-private partnership approach.
But I also think a lot of the states have been involved in but what Governor Cuomo has done in New York with Tappan Zee.
He moved that forward at breakneck speed and I think with all of the issues that the U.S.
infrastructure is facing we got to do something.
And the governments can't afford it.
So I think that PPP market is going to be the approach of choice.
And as I said I don't know if anybody does it any better than we do.
So I feel pretty good about that market in the next - I think that's got a lot longer tail on it than the Oil &amp; Gas Sector frankly because some of those programs are going to be very large and the gestation period is going to be prolonged.
So I think I go back to my diversification comment.
When you get to 16-17-18 I think there's going to be some really faster moves on the infrastructure front.
David actually just going back to Oil &amp; Gas.
I mean its clear your enthusiasm for the project pipeline but I guess just curious about just general discussions with project owners.
We have been obviously hearing about pressures on operating cash flows and decision making on deployment of capital whether they proceed with projects that are on the board today or do pay dividends are buyback stock or other avenues of allocation.
I mean are you using any type of pressure on kind of the large projects in the pipeline at all or is it kind of smooth sailing and there has just been a lot of overreaction to that in the market.
Well I think that the companies are doing what they think what they thinks right and you probably -- I'm not -- that's above my pay grade to practices on their practices but we really have not seen a whole lot of change recently.
And let me put some color on that.
We have seen some change going back probably three years ago where a little more diligence taking place by the project teams the projects are getting so large that you know they're going through one more quarter for FID funding they're going for one more review with their boards get'em out is different than that.
So I think there is more scrutiny but I don't think it is any different today than it was two years ago.
I think that we haven't seen anybody other than Shell cancel a project of any significance.
But I think they are just rationalizing where they are going to spin their money.
I wouldn't say that it's any different but also wouldn't say its smooth sailing.
When these guys are deciding to spend you pick the number $12 billion $15 billion $18 billion on a project; a lot of people take a big swallow and ask for more information.
So I think that's what's happening but I wouldn't say there's any different than it's been for the last two years.
And also there is no difference in what the mining guys are doing because I think what we are seeing the mining guys dusting off some of these projects again and looking at some rationalizations that we have seen taken place with different cancellations.
But I don't think that you have seen a really pull back on fall back on the developments that are going to put ore in the water and that's what they get paid to do and we're going to help them.
Well actually that was kind of my next question just on the mining side.
So you have been -- I guess I'm always saying there saying that we will see the return of some of these projects and there's been some more commentary about copper project specifically kind of the shortage that might be emerging on that front.
Maybe just talk about are you seeing something that could potentially hit in '14 or is this more '15 type of development and how substantial..
it's a lot of steady work.
Rather certain projects come back in the same scope that they were is questionable so is probably some rescoping and some additional front end engineering and technology selection work to be done.
So I'm not looking for any big stuff in '14 but I am looking for growth as we get into '15.
And can you please sneak one last in Biggs I just noticed that the shareholders equity is down sequentially [indiscernible] -know earnings in the quarter.
Is that just a reflection of the backlog removal or are there other items playing in there.
No the backlog removal wouldn't affect the shareholders' equity other than earnings.
You've got other comprehensive income and you've got the share repurchases.
Wondering if you still assume a typical call it 4% to 5% margin in the government business for 2014.
And I assume the other proposal costs that you mentioned were the reason for the kind of sub 2% margins excluding the $57 million and I guess as it relates to the margin assumptions I know you kept the overall $410 million to $460 million guidance unchanged but was there anything notable that shifted around within that expectation for the year since October 31st.
Your last question first.
I don't think there's anything real notable that would be shifting around and on the Government group; yes you're right.
I think that the margin expectation between 4% to 5% is a reasonable one for 2014.
The 2013 fourth quarter did have that offsetting effect of the higher than normal proposal costs and also some increases otherwise an overhead which wouldn't necessarily be recurring.
So those two things had some degree of offsetting the $57 million.
And I'll just reinforce something there that $57 million - we started out looking at the fourth quarter and gave original guidance.
We did assume there would be some benefit there.
We just didn't assume there was going to be a full $57 million.
And it really is in nature similar to what we have in other periods and that's because there's some government groups margins to bounce around on a recurring basis anyway.
In this case it's just a lot of it hitting in the fourth quarter and it happened at different times kind of reinforcing the notion there and the fact that these probably were three separate items.
It's just unusual to have them all happening in one quarter.
So I'd be reluctant to you know throw it all together in one $57 million number and treat it as a singular absolutely distinct kind of a event.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe David digging in a little bit more on the fixed price mix in Oil &amp; Gas if you could talk a little bit more about the basis of your confidence and the ability to price it appropriately; is it -- maybe this time around you're doing more engineering getting that more completed before you actually start the construction or is it your approach to construction with more modular.
What's the sort of the basis for the confidence in that sort of the pricing of that risk?  Well I mean I think it's all of the above.
As I said we've taken a lot of time going back three years from a project that we lost spectacularly in the Middle East and kind of did a ground up review of how we're doing projects how we estimate things what is in our designs what does it take to make sure we can mitigate the risk of construction is that fabrication and I think all of the above have led to us being I think a lot more competitive in the marketplace which I hope translates into higher margin.
But I think I've got great confidence in how we kind of retooled the system and that system is in its entirety the designs that we're using how we're applying our supply chain expertise where we're buying things how we're buying things the partners that we choose to work with and how we're going to execute the project in a much more efficient manner.
I think what we're trying to focus on is a better delivery of both cost and schedule to our customers and I think my confidence in this will lead to I think additional awards because we're going to be able to do it better than anybody else and that's what we are focused on.
So I know that sounds like motherhood and apple pie here but I forgot to tell you what the teams have done in deleveraging.
As an example the Oil &amp; Gas guys leveraging the expertise from a power group.
100% of that backlog is lump sum and leveraging the logistical capabilities of some of the infrastructure projects and taking the lessons learned from that.
What we have done on direct-hire construction and large step of what we have done to secure our position with fabricated modules all of that goes into us I think having a much more competitive offering with much more surety of execution.
And from Stephens Investments we will go to Will Gabrielski.
Can I push a little more on Oil &amp; Gas margins.
And I am just counting it's been three years since you were last over four and now you are back over four but it sounds like you have the conviction that you are going to get another 90 bps or so between now and year end into that margin.
And I'm just curious is it an accelerating burn associated with the big wins you had last year or is it something around the cost side or a combination of both that gives you some at least comfort that/or trending that direction?  I think it's both I mean I think it's both.
What we are seeing is the payoff of the investments that I just mentioned.
It's effective utilization of our resources.
It's the deployment of the results of the strategies around expanding our offerings both in terms of market and in geography.
I think what the team has done is really open the aperture of the market without risking the risk profile of the project and with that come some efficiencies.
So we are seeing improved margins in backlog and part of that's because of how we have developed the strategies to deploy and execute its additional leverage from the use of utilization sorry utilization of the people we have.
But it's all the above.
i mean I think we are starting as a company; not just Oil &amp; Gas I think we are starting to click on oil cylinders and that gives me great confidence in saying that yes we are going to put more margin over the next three quarters on the books for Oil &amp; Gas.
And I think you are going to see the overall margin improve for the bigger Fluor.
So I hope I'm not too overly optimistic or sound too overly optimistic on the phone but there is a lot of good things to be talked about with where we're headed and the successes that we are having.
Okay.
Was the North West upgrade also a lump sum EPC win?  No.
When you talked about Mozambique LNG or when you think about Anadarko I guess that you are doing the feed for how is the timing of that project shift if Anadarko wasn't involved there if there's in ownership is that something that you think about in terms of FID targets and getting the EPC nod? Well I don't have any indication that they are looking to parleys with that project.
Obviously if I did there would be a delay because there is not anybody working in the lease to pick that up but we haven't gotten any indication that a significant change is eminent.
Okay.
Then lastly if you don't mind just on NuScale I am just curious where one where do you think the organic Power margin is in 14 if you want to comment on that and two where are you on the pursuing strategic alternatives or looking for partners and how much of that is embedded in the guide at this point?  There's two questions there.
I think the margin question was around power in general without NuScale.
Is that right? Yes that's the first part.
I mean I think that that's a very competitive market right now and I don't foresee us getting back into double-digit margins anytime soon with regard to Power.
However I do think we are going to see some improvement as we move into '14.
We've got a lot of projects that have been bid and we are in the negotiation stages of as we speak.
Whether we win or not is yet to be seen but I have confidence in growth in Power overall and improving the margin sum in that segment during 14.
With regard to NuScale we're still in the negotiation process with Department of Energy on exactly what that sharing looks like.
So it's hard for me to really predict what the expenditures will be; but what I committed to you guys in the last quarter I maintain and that is that Fluor's investment will not be what it was in '13.
And what that exactly means I can't tell you right now but I can tell you when in FOA it's hard for me to say who is ready to write a check or become an owner.
But I can tell you that there is a lot of interest from partners both in terms of technology owners and power companies and a significant interest in some of the suppliers for the equipment that will be required to build those facilities.
So we're a little bit behind what I hoped would be but A as I said in the prepared remarks I think it was validation that the DOE selected only NuScale and I think that that was what we needed to get the dialog and interest from potential investors to the table.
I'll elaborate just a little bit on with the math on NuScale.
As David said we're still on negotiation on FOA arrangements so there is some things to be full defined but generally talking about FOA a word of just over $200 million which would be over 4 year period so that's about $50 million a year that would come from the government as a match.
So our corresponding spend would be $50 million.
Now having said that plug in $50 million for this year for NuScale in our outlook and our guidance because they will be influenced by two things one is how much pull back there is which is one of the things that gets negotiation how far back the past we effectively get some degree of match for.
And secondly what happens from a standpoint of selling down our interest.
Until we're done with the negotiation until we're able to come and just how successful were going to be how fast in selling down the interest it's hard to be finite as to what the expectation is for NuScale for the year.
But that helps to figure out kind of what ceiling is and it's a little down also.
It does thank you Biggs.
I don't know what law there is in infrastructure we can fill in all these potholes around New York City beat the numbers.
We'll just stick bridges.
You picked the right one over here of course.
So my question is relative to again law in infrastructure like the government mining and et cetera looking at INI.
Is there opportunities for Fluor to make some acquisitions to fill in some holes or skill sets or technologies winning that broad scope in 2014? Seems like you may be fairly generous with the share repurchase and dividends or it could be enough capital to show some opportunities there.
So just wanted your thoughts on that.
Well I think what we have always told you is that if there is not any strategic reason for the cash returning it to shareholders through dividend and share repurchases is the next usage.
I think that hopefully the increase in the dividend shows you the confidence we have in our earnings streams over the next few years and also kind of recharging the repurchase program also shows that we have got an expectation of cash generation there.
But I can tell you that does not hamper us from looking at niche acquisitions.
As I have said in the past it's hard to move the needle for us because of our diversity and we're going to be very careful in how we look at acquisitional growth.
But I do believe that some level of acquisition over the next couple of years is needed to fill some skill gaps.
But I can commit to you that we're going to be very careful in how we look at that and what pieces that we get.
I think that I go back some of the other terms we have used around like niche to describe those acquisitions and I think we'll stick with that.
I appreciate that.
And my follow up is David maybe with the recent reorganization internally promoting Peter to the COO.
What's the vision behind that and are there -- is there opportunities for more cost saving streamline opportunities or more or area to kind of focus on getting better and deeper penetration with the current client base.
I appreciate that question we really flattened the organization so that we could be more nimble and agile with our customer base we eliminated a layer of management basically so that both Peter and I can spend more time with the projects and with the customers.
Clearly there is a benefit from an overhead reduction from the elimination of positions.
But really Peter and I looked at the commercial side of the business.
Now government still is a direct report to me but when you look at the commercial business looking for the synergies looking for cost optimization as I mentioned when we're talking about lump sum some of it is becoming much more cost competitive in how we deploy our resources no duplication of efforts.
So this was an opportunity for us to really get ready for the wave that's in front of us and I'm really pleased that Peter took that position.
But I think what I really like is it created a lot of opportunity for the next wave of leadership in this corporation.
And I think from a long term perspective it gives me great confidence that we're here for long term I'm certainly here for the long term.
But I'd tell you I am really excited about this change and the effect it's going to have on how competitive we can be.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
David I just wanted to get a sense of how you're thinking about the guidance for the full year what are the puts and takes ongoing to the upfront or the lower end of the range and whether this government resolution was included in your 2014 guidance? As I've said before I'm not going to give guidance within guidance.
I think we're comfortable with maintaining that guidance as I think the question the last quarter was how confident are you that you can stay in that range if you don't win either the LNG plants.
We've won the one that we wanted because it starts early.
So it gives confidence that we're within the range and right on target with what we expect from an internal earnings target perspective.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate that.
And then just within I&amp;I segment do you think about the profitability of that segment at this low run rate of revenues? Are we still looking at a 3% to 4% margin number for this year or is that going to be difficult to achieve? On I&amp;I the run rate going into the third quarter was 4% little above that it jumped up in the third quarter there is also some significant milestones and favorable events so we said wouldn't necessarily repeat themselves and then it would fall back down to that 4% or just above 4% kind of level going forward and I think that's still our expectation.
Keeping in mind that yes there is the mining activity is lower margin business infrastructure is higher margin on average but does get driven somewhat by the timing of our hitting milestones and significant events which enable favorable profit pickups.
And we don't necessarily see quite as much opportunity in 2014 as within '15 so that's why we'd say even though mining is going down but still fly going to be in that 4% or just above 4% kind of territory for I&amp;I.
Research Division</strong> Thank you.
Hi.
How are you? Couple of questions here first it seems like more and more of your large projects are being went under a joint venture structure.
How do we think about Fluor's profitability and cash flow with an increasing non-controlling interest deduction on both income stable and cash flow? Well predominantly the joint ventures are accounted for on a partial consolidation basis.
So it pick up our share of revenues it pick up our share of profitability and therefore the margin rate really is not affected by the fact that it's a joint venture versus just something that we have and that we're the sole prime contractor on.
From the standpoint of cash flow likewise we're picking up our fair share of the cash flows and nothing because it's consolidated it really doesn't affect non-controlling interest at all because we're speaking up our shares those who picking up the 100% and they're going to back out in non-controlling interest.
So for the most part it should fairly transparent or no real distortion occurring in margins in respect of the P&amp;L.
Cash flow can be somewhat affected by virtue of cash builds the joint venture than we're all having agree about how we take cash out and that's why when we look at cash availability we first think first thing we look to exclude is the cash that's tied up in joint ventures or in advances from customers because that's really represent something that is immediately available but over an extended period of time that is it's just a matter of we're not the sole determinant of when the cash gets flowed back to the joint ventures.
Okay that's very helpful.
I guess my next question is if I think about your prospect list I think a lot of these mergers LNG or natural gas like projects in some way dependent on emerging market growth and given the recent volatility and enhance the number of unexpected rate hikes it seems like global GDP rates is about 10% of the world's GDP just saw big a hike how do evaluate some of these larger projects in that context and I guess how do you handicap the funding of these projects given that liquidity has been drained from the market? Thank you.
That's a great question.
I think our view into that I mean obviously I look at - we look it is kind of trends and market conditions when we're doing our plans.
But I think the best granularity comes from when we have our conversations with the customers on maybe these programs and I think fit them at the great example where they seen the hikes because that product has headed to Asia and they're on tract to continue funding.
So I think the challenge that we have and this is something we spent a lot of time on is which projects are we going to chase and use that selectively or create the selectivity based on where we think these programs are going.
And so far I think we've made wise choices of where we invest our money in terms of proposals and efforts to get positions for these projects.
So I don't see any macroeconomic issues or product flows changing anything that we're really looking right now through '14.
David or Biggs as it relates to your buy back activity you've obviously bought back 200 million in the fourth quarter and that was at the lower end of your range of sort of 200 to 400 but yet in the first quarter of this year it appears if you're on your way to buying back another 200 million so as we think about your buy backs should we think about it as a sort of 200 million a year sort of a strategy or is it a 400 million a year sort of strategy? Well I guess to clarify kind of back to 200 million to 400 million when we said that we said it'd be over the next several months as opposed to in the fourth quarter.
So we really are executing right in alignment and going to the higher level of 400 million and it's been accomplished over the fourth quarter last year first quarter of this year.
From the standpoint of how to think about it as David already said it always depends upon is there other higher better use of cash or is there anything else that we can get a greater return on.
We always have to look at that and for that reason because you can't always predict those in advance it's hard to say here's what the expectations should be.
And having said that I think if you look back over the last few years it's been around $400 million a year on average even after considering the lower level last year it was around 400 in 2012 and it was above that in 2012.
So it's averaged around 400 million but it's always going to be dependent upon it could be higher or lower depending upon the combination of fastest generator and what the other alternatives are if there are any.
But we did increase within rate to increase the cash distributed to shareholders through a different meaning.
That's great helpful.
And then secondly as it relates to LOGCAP IV is sort of the outlook for 2014 still around 1 billion in revenue? Yes.
And how's your methodology for accounting for LOGCAP IV in backlog changed? Not a LOGCAP IV no that wasn't effected anyway.
Perfect.
Thank you nice quarter.
I just had a question on the non-controlling interest line that looks sequentially it's done descent amount just kind of wanted to know is there a project behind that potentially maybe the mining joint venture but maybe something else? Yes so I'm glad you asked it really is a good follow-on question to the one that earlier about the new joint venture because I really answer what was going on what the new joint ventures on the Oil &amp; Gas side.
I said we anticipate being partial consolidation but we did have on the mining side one project last year which caused non-controlling interest to go up and that was in fact Pascua Lama.
You may recall back at the first to last year we took responsibility for the Argentinian side where we had just had Chilean side and when we did that it caused us to move from partial consolidation on that project to full consolidation within that non-controlling interest.
But now that work has first wound down and secondly cancelled at least for the timing being then that reduces now the non-controlling interest we're going to have out of the mining business.
Anything else on the go forward basis as this $18 million levels kind of the right level you think going forward? Biggs.
It's going to bounce around that's really kind of hard to project.
But I think that just keep in mind that that just nets out of the bottom line and it doesn't really affect our net P&amp;L and it doesn't even effect of taxes literally it has a cosmetic effect on the tax rate but it doesn't affect our absolute taxes.
So I understand it can create a complexity in modeling but for the most part you shouldn't speculate in a day that it is neutralized.
And then one other question to some of these projects that you announced after the quarter software larger ones like the Clean Fuels project Kitimat.
Can you talk about what scope we should be expecting and maybe specifically to the clean fuels we noticed that is a consortium there.
Should we think about your role as more of a engineering construction management rather than construction type role in that project.
No actually that project is based on scope.
So each of us say a vertical split scope EPC and if you remember we did the FEED on that program so many years ago.
How that project divides up is basically a third to third to third.
But little early for us to put out any numbers.
Thank you operator and I really appreciate everyone participating in our call this afternoon.
I think our performance in 2013 was very solid particularly given the sharp decline that we experienced in Mining and Metals.
However as I said or Oil and Gas Power and Infrastructure and Government business have all delivered marked improvement over 2012.
We continue to face headwinds as we talked about in Mining and Government as we move into '14.
But we believe that we are in and only innings of a very major oil and gas investment cycle they were very prepared for.
Importantly oil and gas segment continues to gather I think significant momentum by delivering over 30% growth in its segment profit capturing the clear version we mentioned and growing their backlog and positioning I think Fluor for a substantial new award output in '14 as well as beyond.
With that I really appreciate your interest and support of our company and we wish everyone a good day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good afternoon and welcome to the Fluor Corporation's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 7 at the following telephone number: (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 9590125 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thanks very much operator and welcome everyone to Fluor's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making our prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which we've summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was also filed earlier today.
During today's call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are also posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead David.
Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon and thanks for joining us.
On today's call we'll review our results for the first quarter and discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2014.
If you'll turn to Slide 3 I want to start by covering some of the highlights from our first quarter.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for the quarter were $149 million or $0.92 per diluted share which compares with $166 million or $1.02 per share the diluted share a year ago.
This is consistent with our expectations and previous guidance for lower earnings in the early part of the year followed by a ramp-up in the second half of '14 and into 2015.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $268 million which compares to $294 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Segment profit results were driven by a 32% increase in Oil &amp; Gas profit offset by lower contributions from the company's other segments which as we have discussed are experiencing varying degrees of market challenges.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter was lower than expected at $5.4 billion down from $7.2 billion a year ago again mainly due to significantly lower revenues in the Mining &amp; Metals business line.
We are very pleased with our new awards for the quarter which were a record $10.7 billion.
New awards were primarily driven by Oil &amp; Gas orders of $8.8 billion while Industrial &amp; Infrastructure booked $924 million and our Government Group booked $748 million.
Consolidated backlog at the quarter end rose to $40.2 billion up $5.3 billion over last quarter and up from $37.5 billion a year ago.
Our financial results are summarized on the next slide in the table and I'll continue my remarks on Slide 5.
In the first quarter the Oil &amp; Gas segment booked as I said the new award number of $8.8 billion which included a portion of the engineering procurement and construction on an LNG project in Canada; as well as a major clean fuels refinery program in Kuwait; a refinery expansion in Canada; a pipeline project in Mexico; and a chemicals project in Malaysia.
Ending backlog for the Oil &amp; Gas segment rose 38% from a year ago and now sits at $25.7 billion the fifth sequential quarterly increase.
Turning to Slide 6 the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure new awards were just under $1 billion including additional scope on a copper project in Peru and an iron ore facility in Australia.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $9.9 billion down from $16 billion a year ago.
This decline was driven by the Mining &amp; Metals business line which was impacted by lower awards and a project cancellation in 2013.
In infrastructure opportunities continue to evolve and we are tracking a number of road and rail projects that are expected to be awarded later this year.
If you turn to Slide 7 the Government Group posted new awards for the quarter of $748 million including a 5-year contract to maintain United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve with the Department of Energy.
This is a great win for the group as they focus on expanding their service businesses.
Ending backlog was up -- excuse me was $2.6 billion up from $2.4 billion last quarter.
I'm also pleased to report that last month we were informed that the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority in the United Kingdom selected the Cavendish Fluor partnership as the preferred bidder on Magnox for the decommissioning of 12 nuclear sites.
This project will leverage our considerable experience in nuclear remediation.
In the Power segment new awards were $166 million and ending backlog was $1.9 billion comparable with the $1.9 billion a year ago.
Although the market is very competitive we're bidding a number of gas-fired power generation facilities and expect awards over the next few quarters.
Although book and burn from these projects would be light in the current year the number of opportunities is important to our prospects for growth in Power in 2015.
In other Power-related news I want to provide a brief update on NuScale.
As you know the DOE selected NuScale for the second round of FOA funding.
We're in the process of working towards financial close with the DOE which will be a key step in attracting potential investors manufacturers and other supply chain partners.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 8 of the presentation.
I want to start by providing some additional comments on our performance for the first quarter.
As David mentioned revenue for the first quarter was down fairly significantly year-over-year mainly due to the continued falloff in Mining activity.
Revenue was also down from last quarter mainly due to Mining but we also saw a modest reduction in Oil &amp; Gas.
This reduction is a reflection of a change in the mix of the work there with a larger FEED and engineering content as compared to construction.
This mix change had a favorable impact on Oil &amp; Gas margins in the quarter.
We expect construction work on a number of large Oil &amp; Gas projects to pick up later in the year once engineering work has progressed.
Corporate G&amp;A expense for the first quarter were $38 million up from $33 million a year ago.
The majority of this increase can be attributed to higher compensation expenses.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter was approximately 29% including a positive effect for deferred tax benefits in certain foreign jurisdictions.
We expect our tax rate for the remainder of the year to be between 32% to 33%.
Shifting to the balance sheet on Slide 9 Fluor's financial condition remains very strong with cash plus current and noncurrent marketable securities totaling $2.6 billion.
This compares with the balance of $2.5 billion a year ago.
During the quarter the company generated $187 million in cash flow from operating activities and repurchased approximately $200 million worth of Fluor shares.
Consistent with our announcement late last year we retired about $400 million worth of shares over the past 2 quarters.
The cash balance did not otherwise decline seasonally as much in the first quarter of 2014 as in prior years primarily due to the timing of cash flows between March and April.
In the first quarter we also paid $26 million in dividends.
Moving to Slide 10 as previously mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog at quarter-end was $40.2 billion.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog remained at 20%.
And the mix by geography was 32% U.S.
and 68% non-U.S.
I will conclude my remarks by providing an update on our 2014 guidance which is on Slide 11.
As evidenced by the strong booking in the quarter we are well-positioned for earnings growth which we expect to start in the second half of the year and then continue into 2015.
Reduction of revenue from the Mining and Government businesses will remain an offset to growth in Oil &amp; Gas through the second quarter.
Outside of Oil &amp; Gas new awards for the first half are not expected to drive enough book and burn to support the high end of our initial guidance range for the year.
For this reason we have lowered the top end of our guidance by $0.15 to a range of $4.10 to $4.45 per share.
We now expect overall revenue will be lower in 2014 than in 2013 but offset in part by higher margin.
This adjustment to our guidance does not diminish our optimism for the mid or longer term.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David looking at the non-Oil &amp; Gas businesses in your portfolio how close are we for a turn in new business opportunities to allow 2015 performance to be a better contributor and certainly this kind of bottoming phase in 2014? And of those businesses which ones are more likely to drive it versus others? Well as we talked Michael it's a great question.
As we talked there's a lot of headwind in Mining and in Government specifically around the LOGCAP project.
And it will certainly close as we get into '15 and probably beyond because I think there'll be people there that -- beyond in Afghanistan.
But I think that what we're seeing right now is we're seeing a good solid stream of study in front-end work in Mining which gives me confidence that we'll see that start to return as we get into '15.
I think government's going to be more of a difficulty.
They've got a lot of things on the books.
I mean I think winning the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is a great example of the diversity within that group of being able to not only work in the DOD world but also in the DOE world and the FEMA world.
So that diversity helps them but I think it's going to be difficult to replace LOGCAP from its peak.
Infrastructure I think is -- as I said in the prepared remarks we've got several projects that we're bidding right now and we feel pretty good about.
And then I think Power I mean one of the things that's in front of us as we've said in previous calls and certainly in this call there's a lot of combined cycle gas-fired power plants that we're bidding.
I think we -- I think there's 7 of them that we're in bid right now.
But I think that the recent ruling by the Supreme Court on CSAPR really helps us because we've got a lot of expertise on the coal side of the Power business on the retrofit side.
And I think that that ruling by the Supreme Court really helps us a lot when we think about removing some of the headwinds that Power has experienced over the last 2 years.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that David.
And my follow-up question as you -- or maybe for Biggs as you look towards 2014 and capital allocation any major changes to capital spending working capital adjustments? And will share or repurchases be opportunistic or more measured throughout 2014 all things else considered? In terms of -- well no real change in perspectives or philosophies on CapEx; may well run fairly consistent with last year.
As noted the Global Services group which contains the equipment business is not off to a fast start this year so correspondingly CapEx is staying modest through this particular point in time.
We hope that there's opportunity -- there are opportunities for that growth going forward.
But I would expect overall CapEx may be in line with last year.
From the standpoint of working capital normally you associate this particularly with revenues.
So with revenue expected to be somewhat down now we actually don't expect much change in working capital over the course of the year so cash generation from earnings should be strong.
And then in terms of share repurchases the -- as I said no change.
We've executed the $200 million in the first quarter which brought us to the $400 million cumulatively over the last couple of quarters.
And our philosophy going from here remains the same.
It's a matter of consistently measuring what amount of cash we think is an excess of requirements evaluating whether or not there's some higher-return opportunity for that and the absence and as we build through time of some greater investment opportunity then we would look to repurchase shares which I think has been pretty consistent with our practices over the last few years.
Our next question is from Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
I'm so sorry it's Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
First on the top line David the Oil &amp; Gas revenues were weaker than I would have thought.
They came down sequentially.
Is there anything going on there? At what point do you expect the Oil &amp; Gas revenues to ramp more dramatically? And my second question is I guess just back on the guidance.
I understand the headwinds that you faced but you've booked a huge amount of bookings.
The Oil &amp; Gas margins in the quarter were 5.1% which is sort of where you targeted it at the year-end.
So I guess my question is do we get to a point where these underperforming businesses are small enough and Oil &amp; Gas is big enough that you can finally grow the EPS double digit and when do we get there? And is the 5.1% -- I guess the other concern or bear case would be the 5.1% margin is a peak margin in your Oil &amp; Gas and so your total backlog as at peak so how do you think about that? The first thing it is a mix issue.
I mean you're going basically from -- I think everybody kind of thinks about Oil &amp; Gas as the only thing we have but we have a pretty robust diversity that we deal with.
And when you look at how big Mining was 2 years ago and that's a significant drop-off.
So from a revenue perspective I'm not too concerned about the drop this year as long as the profitably is there which we have.
So I think what you're doing is you're -- not only are you changing from a Mining -- predominantly Mining revenue burn and associated margin to Oil &amp; Gas and its associated margin we're also facing kind of the shift in the project cycle from the full EPC back to in E&amp;C -- within the Oil &amp; Gas segment that beginning FEED and first pieces of engineering where you're not burning the revenues associated with the procurement cycle or the construction cycle.
So that is what we expected to happen.
It's a little bit more of a drop than I think we had hoped for.
But again I think when you look at the profitability I feel pretty good about where we are.
I am...
Research Division</strong> So when is that inflection point? Sorry? Research Division</strong> When is that inflection point when your earnings finally start to grow double-digit and reflect the Oil &amp; Gas backlog in the margin? And have margins in Oil &amp; Gas peaked and in backlog peaked? Well I'm not going to give you the specific date.
I mean I think what we've said in the past is the first 2 quarters are light on EPS and it grows towards the end of the year.
As Biggs said we didn't see an avenue right now to get to the top end of the range and that's why we dropped it.
I think that E&amp;C being back above 5% is a good thing.
We think that it'll -- it may drop a little bit it may rise a little bit but I think we're back into kind of the sweet spot of E&amp;C.
And as I've answered the question to Michael if you get towards the end of this year and into next year if we have some success in Power and in Mining on the back of some of these front ends we're doing we should start to see revenue growth as well as profitability growth.
I also should note that we expect the other businesses besides Oil &amp; Gas generally to have improving bottom line results as we go through the year this year.
And worth coming back and referring to the Power projects; there's a number of bids more than we have had in the last couple of years outstanding on Power projects.
We obviously knew those projects were going to be out there for bid.
But what's happened is that the decision processes on those by the customer has moved out to the right.
So it's just less likely to have as much benefit from those this year.
There would be benefit from them and it would create opportunity for growth but not as much this year and more for next year.
So I don't think it's fair to look at all the other businesses besides Oil &amp; Gas and portray those as shrinking businesses.
The first quarter is certainly a low point for the most of them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just on the Oil &amp; Gas revenues in the quarter was that below your expectations or was my modeling correct? I'm just trying to figure out when that ramps and I'll get back in queue.
It was a little bit below but I'd say it was in line with what we thought Jamie.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that should start to ramp? Yes.
Our next question is from Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> David could you expand a little bit upon some of the bidding opportunities in Oil &amp; Gas? And if you don't want to be specific on project maybe talk geographic where they stand and/or kind of what type of facility they could be such as pipelines in Mexico that sort of thing? Yes I think the U.S.
still has some growth in front of us.
I mean there's several projects in the Gulf Coast that we're continuing to pursue both through FID and also new bids.
Obviously there's 2 more -- or excuse me 2 more LNG plants in the Gulf Coast that we're pursuing very diligently.
Canada still holds out a lot of opportunity in terms of pipelines and SAGD-type projects in the oil sands.
If you go to Europe oddly enough there's some refinery work that we're pursuing that we feel really really good about.
In Africa Mozambique and South Africa to continue to be -- I wouldn't -- I mean Mozambique's kind of an anomaly and there's just some huge projects there.
But I think the Middle East still has a lot to hold both in terms of offshore upstream and more refining work that's coming in addition to some of the petrochemical stuff that we're pursuing.
In Southeast Asia a lot of work in petrochemicals that we're pursuing Malaysia specifically in 2 different cases.
And then I think in China when you think about some of the partnerships that we've announced previously and one that comes to mind is BASF in China and Malaysia as well as United States.
So I think it's a pretty robust bid slate for us or prospect slate for us and I'm really pleased to say that it's very geographically dispersed.
Research Division</strong> And were there any onetime items in the quarter that were somewhat material that weren't necessarily called out in the press release i.e.
onetime gains anything like that? No.
Our next question is from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David or Biggs when you lowered the high end of your guidance was it more because your I&amp;I revenue continues to be lower than expectation or was it because Government was a little weaker or is a little weaker and Global Services continues to be a bit of a drag? I'm just trying to figure out is it all of the above? Is it one more than the other? And maybe you could talk about Global Services in particular because that segment continues to sort of maybe slow down a little bit.
Let me kind of hit the last point first and I'll come back.
So on Global Services they have -- the biggest income driver there is the equipment business which is correlated to a fair degree to work in Afghanistan and to work on Mining.
And so some of the movement there is consistent with what you see in the other business segments.
They also though support construction and will support our own construction activities.
So as that ramps up it creates more opportunity for them so somewhat consistent with the notion that we have a lot of engineering content in the quarter.
We correspondingly had less constructions or less opportunity for the equipment business.
So they do have an opportunity.
They'll have some pressures from Mining and Afghanistan as we go through the year but then they have opportunity associated with the other activities.
Broadly speaking in terms of the high end of the range it really is a matter of we expect improvement as we always did through the course of the year but as I said we aren't getting enough activity on the new awards side.
Things have slid to the right new project proposals on the Government side the Power proposals on the -- for the gas plants a number of them but they've shifted to the right in terms of their timing of award.
And so that just means that our ability to have that much greater acceleration to our growth as we go through the year has become limited because we just can't get those awards in.
Assuming we win our fair share as targeted we just can't get them in fast enough to create enough book and burn to have that additional acceleration through the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And should we see I&amp;I revenues stabilize here or does it still have a little more downside to it? I think overall it could actually be growing from here.
It's going to bounce around because you've got offsets between infrastructure projects and as they mature like the Tappan Zee Bridge and what's happening on the Mining business which is approaching a point of some stabilization.
Depends on future awards on Mining is it stable at this point or not but I think that it does have opportunity to grow.
Research Division</strong> David you know someone's going to ask you about NuScale so it might as well be me.
So you know what your competitor has been doing or the other guy who's got the technology and sort of downsizing there or slowing down their spending.
You've talked about slowing down your spending in NuScale in the second half of the year at least having the DOE pick up the slack.
So can you give us an update on that? I mean you did I think $13 million in spend in the quarter.
Can we see that drop in the second half of the year and what's in the guidance? I think we're still negotiating that FOA and I think our expectation is to spend prudently based on what progress we need to make to move towards the certification.
Whether it's $13 million or a little bit more or a little bit less I think the issue is we're actively looking for additional investors.
This has always been our plan.
The finalization of the deal with the DOE helps us get there.
There's been lots of discussion with different potential investors that show interest.
But I think they're all again still waiting on on signing the deal.
I'm not going to cover anything about the other technologies.
I still have great confidence in the technology and its application.
I think the size of the reactors and its application is more widespread than maybe some of the other technologies.
And I think it's got safety features that are much better than the other technologies.
So I think we're steady as she goes relative to our investment.
And I feel really good about the position where we sit and the conversations that are going on with strategic partners that would also begin to take part of that spend curve.
This is Biggs.
Just to elaborate a little bit.
Consistent with what we said before what happens under the FOA arrangement is actually that our gross spend goes up.
There will be an increase in the gross spend but that increase will be offset by the funding from the government such that at the end of the day roughly speaking this year's net P&amp;L expense would be roughly equal to last year's.
So higher spend offset by government funding producing about the same bottom line effect all other things EG ownership staying equal.
If we succeed in selling some of the interest then there's opportunity for it to go down that P&amp;L expense.
We'll hear next from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David can you talk about the timing of the final investment decisions on the next round of U.S.
ethylene and LNG projects? I guess if you could touch on Sasol and Lake Charles specifically? And then in the past you mentioned that you folks were full when it comes to ethylene and you weren't planning on bidding on any more projects.
I'm wondering has that thought process changed at all? And -- or just your updated thoughts there would be helpful.
Well I never said we weren't going to bid on more ethylene plants if they come.
I think we're moving towards FID decision on Sasol in the second half of the year probably towards the end of the third quarter.
Probably won't know until the beginning of the fourth.
On LNG as we stated there's a portion of Kitimat in the new awards FID is later in the year so there's probably another part of an award towards next year.
The 2 LNG plants that I mentioned in the Gulf Coast it's early stages so my guess is we're probably talking about an award sometime mid-next year.
With regard to Mozambique they're still looking to down-select if not award to one contractor sometime towards the end of this year.
But I think that's a 2015 award.
But there's -- I think the beauty of what we've seen is the awards for this quarter were significant in sheer numbers of awards in a couple of hundred -- 240 or 250 awards in the quarter which is pretty robust.
And a lot of that is front end.
So when I think about the conversation on the non-Oil &amp; Gas business there's a fair amount of capital spending decisions that'll take place towards the beginning of next year which I think just helps us grow the business in '15 '16 and beyond.
So I think as I've said in the past we're kind of in the early stages of a pretty sustainable robust growth period.
And I think Biggs said it right I mean I think Mining's if not close -- if not stable is close and hence I&amp;I should grow from there.
So it's a pretty good story across the board with still a couple of headwinds in government the headwind of timing around when the growth in Mining takes place.
And then obviously we're in the early innings of a pretty long baseball game in Oil &amp; Gas.
Research Division</strong> And then David in U.S.
infrastructure can you just talk about the inquiry or the bid pipeline how that developed over the past quarter? The bid opportunities that you highlighted for I&amp;I was that in the U.S.
or elsewhere? It was mostly in the U.S.
a couple things in Europe but primarily in the U.S.
And I think one of the things that the U.S.
Government's doing or at least moving down the road in a very positive way is some of the legislation around U.S.
infrastructure which only helps that.
Mr.
Wittmann your line is open.
Research Division</strong> Biggs it looked like in the Q that there was some closeouts that were unquantified in I&amp;I.
Do you have that number handy by any chance? I don't think -- it's a number that individually is material and makes sense to call out.
There were 2 things in I&amp;I.
There were some closeouts and some incentives on the mining side.
And then we also had favorable performance on an infrastructure project which had an increase in its booking rate.
And that's what drove the margin rate up to 6% in the quarter as opposed to what's more normally between 4% and 5%.
So that gives you an idea of the magnitude of the favorable effects there.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Recently it's been running closer to the 4% than the 5%.
Do you expect that to be the case for the balance of the year? I think it's early to call it.
I don't want to get too specific.
I think you have to just take the 4% to 5% range.
It always is going to vary some quarter-to-quarter based upon milestones on projects and mix.
But the -- as you look at it on a broad basis on a longer term with mining revenues down year-over-year that's lower-margin business.
Infrastructure is higher-margin business.
So that creates a bit of a shift all other things equal.
The only caution we'd make to that for people trying to compare it to last year was there were a number of projects on infrastructure last year which did even better than the normal margin rate because we hit so many of the milestones successfully.
And we don't see quite as much opportunity for that this year.
It's hard to get more specific than that -- or it's not hard but I don't think it makes sense to.
But that should give you a reasonable range to deal with.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And maybe David on the Government business margins were kind of light.
Is that due to the shrinking business and maybe having some under-absorption of any labor costs there? And can you rectify that by getting ahead with the right staffing levels? Or should we think of that business kind of being structurally here with this level of work in that segment? This is Biggs.
I'll answer the question a little bit and David can add on.
But a couple things in the Government business and it's also evidence in -- evident in some of their business the last few quarters where there's been a lot of proposal activity.
There is a little higher overhead associated with proposal activity.
We don't have all the new awards in it as I said earlier that we would have targeted by this point in time.
But certainly the Magnox award is pretty big.
And so that's had an effect on G&amp;A and Government and in Power for that matter the level of bidding activity that's been taking place the last couple of quarters.
There also was underperformance on one project in there which created a little bit of a negative noise for them.
It wasn't material in the broader scheme of things but if you're looking at it just from the standpoint of Government it held them back a little bit.
And that's one reason why I'd say they've got opportunity to grow from here.
Yes I'd just add a little bit of color on that.
I think I'm really proud of what they've been able to do when you think of winning Magnox and the petroleum reserve.
So they're in the process of trying to figure out how they stem the tide of decline from what was a huge program in LOGCAP with new work in other parts of the Government infrastructure.
But I think the win in the U.K.
was huge for us because it takes us out of just relying on the U.S.
from a market perspective.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
Is there any risk that the Magnox -- you're the preferred bidder I know it's been protested.
Can you one talk about the -- I mean is that yours? How should investors think about that? Can you just talk about the economics of that joint venture? I think you're a minority partner.
Is that proportionally consolidated? And what do you think the scope could be for that Magnox project? Any color would be helpful.
It is proportionally.
Well we haven't -- yes.
We haven't put anything in the backlog the first quarter because this is a second quarter award.
If we do it will be on a proportion and consolidated.
When I say if we do it we're still examining whether it should be properly accounted for on an equity method or a proportion-consolidated method.
But it would be 1 of those 2 and it would follow-on in the second quarter.
And the protest rules are different in the U.S.
than they are -- in the U.K.
than they are in the U.S.
And then we wouldn't have announced it had we not signed the document with the government.
Our next question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is really in regards to Oil &amp; Gas.
I think Jamie asked some of these questions.
But I thought if you're looking at 2015 how much -- when you're looking at growth in 2015 how much as of right now do you think is really dependent on a lot of what you've booked really moving forward versus really incrementally booking more stuff that contributes to 2015 let's say even by the end of the year when we're looking at some of the larger bookings you've had? We never book enough Tahira.
No I think obviously with what -- with the success we've had we have better vision into the last half of this year and into '15 than we normally would have at this juncture.
Obviously we've got to have things like Sasol go past FID.
We've got to continue to win the work that's in front of us and the bids that are in front of us to continue that growth curve.
But I think by and large we feel pretty good about where we are in Oil &amp; Gas in the cycle and the prospects for continuing to grow that business as we go through this year and into '15.
And the obvious question is going back to some of the previous comments where are we in Mining? What do we do in Power? And how well does government kind of stem the tide of decline associated with LOGCAP? But I think relative to E&amp;C we feel very good.
I think the team has done a very good job of securing those awards that move our needle.
And as I said in another response there's still a pretty robust prospect slate in front of us through the next probably 6 quarters that will help us continue to pile on on that growth curve.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And as a second question if you look at the Power segment clearly it's been having a bit of a challenging time.
If you do start to see some of these retrofit projects and also the Power projects on the gas side holds true could potentially the volumes be sufficient to really have something profitable? Is your utilization is so low there that you don't really need pricing you just need volume at this point for next year? Well we don't need volume we need profitable projects.
And that's really what we're focused on.
But I think on the retrofit side we did a lot of work a lot of study work going back 2 years ago in helping many of our customers look at what their options are assuming that the CSAPR rules went into play.
So we know kind of what's in front of us and we're really happy with the ruling let's put it that way.
I think the challenge is going to be -- I think the power companies were kind of thinking we probably will get a different response from the Supreme Court.
So I think we got to do a little rationalization right now with our customers help them figure out exactly what that mix is going to be.
But I think you're going to see a significant amount of work come out of that.
The coal fleet needs help everybody knows that.
And the power companies are ready to spend money prudently to deal with that generating capacity.
So I think as we -- again as I've said I think as we get into next year I see an opportunity for growth in the Power segment.
Our next question comes from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> David when you mention prospects for bookings over the next 6 quarters I assume that's just your -- how far out your visibility is.
But...
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> The last 2 years we've seen backlog peak early in the year and then kind of run off through the year.
And I know it's hard to say when projects are going to come in but are we looking at the same pattern this year and any way to tell? I'd say -- I want to invoke the lumpy word again.
I mean obviously we had a great quarter.
And that does take us back above the $40 billion and that's been one of the statements and questions that you guys have asked us is when -- can you get it back over $40 billion.
Well the answer is yes.
But I think given what we see it could decline some during this year.
But I would expect our ending backlog for the year to end with a -- or start with a 4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'd love to hear by sector but in general is the embedded margins in the backlog or the embedded profits as you look at it now is it growing in line with the overall backlog growth? The margin in backlog is improving and growing I think in line with the backlog.
But again as Biggs has said and he can comment on this it's -- there's a lot of moving parts in that backlog but I think generally we're headed in an orderly direction over the longer term.
Yes.
So certainly margin dollars are growing with backlog.
But I think it's important to keep perspective here to what we said over several quarters was even though backlog was declining margin rate was going up due to mix.
And in fact in many quarters even though revenue in backlog was declining the margin dollars in total were going up.
Now with backlog going up you've got a combination of both.
You've got both higher margin rate and margin dollars going up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as you move from the design and upfront phase into actual construction services I mean there's not going to be a dramatic shift especially in the oil and gas sector in terms of margin? There will be moves -- movement in our actual booking rates -- in our profit margin rates in the P&amp;L as there always are with various mix change stages with stages on projects and customer furnished or higher engineering content-type of work or construction work.
All those things create some amount of variability.
The first quarter obviously it drove the P&amp;L margin rate on Oil &amp; Gas up to above 5%.
But when you talk about backlog we don't publish the numbers so you don't see it but generally speaking we don't expect big shifts to be occurring any kind of a short-term basis.
So there's not that much I can say.
Obviously there's so many moving parts it's hard to generalize and hard to give guidance which is really going to be meaningful because you'll always have certain amount of volatility.
Now we'll hear next from Tate Sullivan with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Great order quarter with the $10.7 billion.
But I mean it sounds very confident for the order outlook in general but can you just give some context to do you think you could exceed this quarterly number in orders? Well it is a record.
I think the answer is yes.
I don't see it this year but -- again this year.
But we've done a couple of $9 billion quarters in the past.
But the projects are getting larger and I think the markets are such that our offering is something our customers are looking for.
So I think it'll be difficult in the near term but yes I think we could hit another $10 billion quarter.
Research Division</strong> And last one for me and you've talked a lot about it but this -- can you quantify the scale of the opportunity the order opportunity with the 7 bids for gas-fired plants to put some context around it? I would say they're in totality somewhere in the neighborhood of $2 billion $1.7 billion to $2 billion in revenue -- new order revenue.
Next we'll hear from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just provide some more color on Mining? You said that you could potentially see some improvement in that business.
How many projects are you tracking? And also would you be seeing any changes in the margin structure of any future mining work? Probably no difference in how we approach that business.
But we have Cerro Verde and Pueblo Viejo going on right now in the fields.
So it's not like it completely dried up.
But there's a fair amount of FEED work going on that supports the South American market.
But I also think that there's a fair -- I know there's a fair amount of work that's being discussed around Australia again.
I think that if you look at the Mining sector in general the new management's had enough time to rationalize what their spending's going to be.
I think they've done a good job of returning capital to the shareholders.
But really I think what we're looking for is a change in the commodity pricing.
We're not too far off of the commodity price in some things like gold and copper to where the investment decisions are made.
But right now I think we're helping them rationalize some of those assets and look at where they want to monetize their natural resource.
We've got great relationships in that market.
And when the spending starts to return on an EPC basis I think we'll be there in a pretty strong position.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just on the service business you mentioned one of the drivers for lower service margins was the reduction in equipment business.
I mean is this the new run rate for the service business given the pull back in Mining in the near term? Well I think it probably -- it's probably close.
I think we do have some growth opportunities.
But when you look at the equipment business the 2 biggest pieces as Biggs said was mining in Afghanistan.
Not only the Fluor piece of Afghanistan but also the DynCorp piece of Afghanistan.
So they've got -- they're just like the Government Group where they've had a pretty huge revenue base that's eroded significantly and rebuilding that is going to be on the back of growth.
But it's also going to rebuild itself on the back of some of the direct-hire construction that we're doing in Oil &amp; Gas.
So I think that there is growth opportunities there but I think it's a timing element more than anything else.
Our next question is from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to gauge your confidence in the new guidance range for this year.
I guess specifically how concerned are you that these Oil &amp; Gas projects could get stuck in the FEED phase? So you're looking for guidance within the guidance? Research Division</strong> Well no.
I mean I know you said the most important thing is to get these projects going.
But I feel like we hear a lot about your customers just kind of go back and forth and keep rehashing over the FEEDs.
And just kind of wondering from your perspective what that risk is or you can give guidance within the guidance.
I think you've got to go back to when we established the range which was at the end of the third quarter.
And obviously some things have slowed down and some decisions have been delayed.
I think Kitimat's a great example of that where we thought it would be awarded in the third quarter and then it was awarded in the first quarter or at least the portion that we took in.
So I think that explains a lot of why we've reduced the top end.
But I would suggest we're pretty confident in the range that we stand at today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess since you mentioned Kitimat I'll use that as my follow-up.
So for the amount that you put in backlog for that project are you fully authorized to proceed on that work? We are -- we don't talk -- go back to the Chevron rules we don't talk about numbers in terms of total or in terms of what pieces we've done.
We're confident in the work scope that is associated with what we took in the backlog.
We'll hear next from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> So Dave actually I thought your comments about the power retrofit market actually were really interesting.
Just -- are you getting the sense that a lot of utilities were holding back on spending not just only on cash but also the naturals until they were getting clarity and there had been kind of a building opportunity that might just be beyond just what's required for cash for itself? And I don't know if you have -- you could potentially even quantify how big you think the market is and maybe how many years you could see orders kind of emerge through that from the utilities.
I think you bring up a good point and I think your comment is correct.
I think there's a pent-up demand due to waiting on regulation.
You think about it the U.S.
generating capacity I think 60s -- over 60% is based on coal.
One of the things I like to talk about is everybody on this call walks in flips the light switch on lights come on they plug in their phone they don't even think about what's their power bill is.
So it's about affordable energy.
And right now clean coal is available clean coal technologies.
Even at the cost of cleaning up some of the back end it's still cheaper than some of the other sources.
So I think there's an element of the market saying "Let's wait for sure and let's see what we can put into our business models and what those business models produce as far as what affordable energy would be." I think it's a long answer or a long period of time for this.
And I go back to something that was -- I was on a panel with Jim Rodgers back I don't know this is probably 4 years ago when they were talking about the rules.
At that time he said that Duke was ready to spend $20 billion on cleaning up their coal fleet if they had surety of regulation.
So I think that -- I'd stick with what he said as part of the answer for how big it could be and how long-term I think that market will be.
I think it's a pretty interesting market.
We're very well-positioned to capture a large share of that.
And I think that helps that -- it helps that confidence in the growth story over the longer term that I've been talking about.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And just secondly just on LOGCAP I mean is that contract to you winding down faster than you anticipated? And I think you were looking for about $1 billion run rate as you exited the year.
Do you think that is the likely maintenance level for the next couple of years? Or is there a big step down coming maybe in '15 and '16? Well we're in line with what we thought.
I think it will be a step down as you get into '15 '16.
But again it depends on the elections that are taking place right now in Afghanistan and what agreements are made with the U.S.
Government.
So we know it'll be less than right now but we don't know how much less.
LLC</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask one more just on Oil &amp; Gas.
So Biggs you were just mentioning there's quite -- actually it may have been David quite a bit of FEED work actually has been booked just recently.
And you're expecting construction to start winding up again in the second half of the year.
But just given I guess the increased portion of the revenue being recognized in that FEED stage I mean should we be thinking that margins are hovering around that $5 -- excuse me that 5% level for the remainder of the year? Well obviously it depends upon mix and a variety of things.
And we don't want to get too specific but I guess I wouldn't be surprised to see them drop down a little bit and then come back up.
We originally had forecasted being at 5% by the end of the year in our prior commentary.
We got there early on mix but if the mix moves back a little bit the other direction here next couple quarters it could come back down and come back up later.
But either way it's well-positioned for additional growth over the longer term as volumes go up and as the mix continues to shift and this -- the leverage of overheads continues to improve.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'll turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thanks to all of you for participating on the call today.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
As we discussed I think over the course of today's call we continue to be very positive in our view of our Oil &amp; Gas business both in terms of the strength of their recent performance but also because of the strong ongoing prospects that we're pursuing.
While we continue to experience some headwinds in Mining and Government as we've discussed today we view those as temporary conditions that will remedy themselves over time.
With that our enthusiasm for growth into '15 and beyond is not diminished.
With that we greatly appreciate your interest in our company and your confidence and we wish you a good day.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web (sic) [call] will be available for replay for exactly 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 6 at the following telephone number: (888) 203-1112.
The pass code of 9913193 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thank you very much operator.
Welcome everyone to Fluor's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we've posted a slide presentation on our website which we'll reference while making our prepared remarks this afternoon.
Before getting started I would like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2 of the slide presentation.
During today's call and presentation we'll be making forward-looking statements which do reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and are also posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
So with that let me turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon and -- to everyone and thank you for joining us.
After today's market performance I hope you're not joining us from a ledge somewhere and those of you that are I know who you are.
On today's call we'll review our results for the second quarter and discuss our outlook for the remainder of '14.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 3 I want to start by covering some of the highlights of the quarter.
Our earnings for the quarter were in line with our expectations for a gradual increase as we moved through this year with a stronger second half than the first half.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor from continuing operations were $163 million or $1.02 per diluted share which compares with $161 million or $0.98 per diluted share a year ago.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $313 million which was a 9% increase from $288 million 1 year ago.
Segment profit results were mainly driven by a 57% increase in oil and gas reflecting very strong performance.
Oil and gas margins rose again this quarter resulting from a mix shift towards higher margin from FEED and engineering work with a lower relative construction content.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter was $5.3 billion which was down from our $7.2 billion a year ago mainly due to a significantly lower revenue base in Mining business line.
We expect revenues to go up from this point.
Importantly Oil and Gas revenue is expected to increase once a number of the recently booked projects move into the field and construction gets underway.
We got another solid quarter with strong cash flow from operations and continue to return cash to shareholders.
To date we've returned over $380 million through share repurchases and dividends.
We expect the trend of consistent positive cash flow generation to continue.
New awards for the quarter were $5.9 billion including $3.1 billion in government $1.5 billion in oil and gas $1.2 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure bookings.
Consolidated backlog for the quarter rose to $40.3 billion which is up 9% from $37 billion a year ago.
Our financial results are summarized on -- in the table on Slide 4 if you turn to that and I'll continue my remarks on Slide 5.
For the quarter oil and gas segment booking -- booked new awards of $1.5 billion including a delayed coking unit for refinery in Belgium additional work on the Santos gas processing facility in Australia EPCM for a reverse osmosis project in Saudi Arabia and an LNG break bulk facility in The Netherlands.
Similar to last quarter the group booked over 170 individual small- to medium-sized projects which is indicative of a strong FEED pipeline within Oil and Gas.
Ending backlog for Oil and Gas stood at $24.2 billion which is up 29% from 1 year ago.
We continue to track a robust list of size -- sizable prospects in the United States Canada Mexico the Middle East and Asia.
Prospects in the United States Canada and Mexico an expected number of major FEED programs will convert to EPC awards as we move to the back half of this year and into '15.
Please turn to Slide 6.
New awards were just over $1.2 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure which included the engineering procurement and construction management of a large manufacturing facility in the United States.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $9.2 billion which was down from $16.2 billion 1 year ago.
Again this decline continues to be driven by the lack of significant awards in the Mining &amp; Metals business line.
However the Mining &amp; Metals business line is showing some signs of return and we could see modest awards for projects later this year as well as into next year.
We continue to pursue a number of prospects in infrastructure.
However it's a highly competitive marketplace which remains a challenge.
We have had some recent success in Europe where Fluor -- a Fluor-led consortium was recently selected as the preferred bidder on the A9 PPP-financed highway project in The Netherlands.
The project will go into backlog at a future date after the contract and financing agreements are concluded.
Now turning to Slide 7.
Fluor's government group posted its share -- sorry posted substantial new awards in the quarter of $3.1 billion which include Fluor's portion at $2.2 billion for the Magnox multi-year nuclear decommissioning project in the U.K.
and approximately $820 million for the LOGCAP IV Task Order program.
Ending backlog rose to $5.2 billion including unfunded backlog amounts from $2.6 billion 1 quarter ago.
I'm also pleased to announce that last week we were selected as the preferred bidder on the Paducah deactivation and shutdown contract.
This approximately $420 million project will be booked in the third quarter.
The Paducah contract is a great example of taking our decade -- decades-long nuclear remediation experience to provide safe cost-effective solutions to the Department of Energy.
In the Power segment the new awards were modest reflecting a limited opportunity set and highly competitive market environment.
Ending backlog was $1.7 billion which compares to $1.6 billion 1 year ago.
We will continue to bid for new gas-fired opportunities in North America this year and expect a slate of prospects to improve as we get into 2015.
This quarter we also executed a cooperative agreement with the DOE on the cost-sharing structure for the NuScale funding.
This is an important milestone for our investment and we believe this catalyst will help us attract additional investors manufacturers and other supply chain partners.
Before I get Biggs to discuss the details of our quarter's -- quarterly operating performance I want to spend just a moment talking about the progress and frankly momentum behind the recent organizational realignment actions that we took in the first quarter.
Fluor's always been known as a company that can build large complex projects for our clients anywhere in the world.
The execution of these projects under the typical EPCM model has served us well.
What we see today however is an increasing demand for our firm to partner with our customers and provide an integrated solution not just services.
What's this mean for Fluor? It means that we can better serve our clients by taking more of an enterprise-wide mindset.
And over the past year we've made progress in a number of these areas including increasing the amount and capability of our self-perform construction on projects expanding our global fabrication facilities and leveraging our expertise in third-gen modularization design tool that we have developed as well as using our procurement and supply chain network to win new work.
As part of this initiative we have undertaken steps to realign and flatten the organization to better facilitate integration and cooperation across the company at lower cost.
I'm confident that these initiatives will improve execution and drive additional capital efficiency and project certainty for our customers.
Most importantly this along with applying what we're calling our One Fluor mindset across the enterprise will help drive improvements to our bottom line.
With that I'll now turn it over to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and core financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David.
Good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 8 of the presentation.
I'll start by providing a few comments on our second quarter performance then move to the balance sheet.
As expected overall revenue for the quarter was down fairly significantly year-over-year mainly due to the continued falloff in mining activity.
Oil and Gas revenue was flat compared to last year but increased modestly over the first quarter.
As David mentioned we continue to execute a substantial amount of FEED and engineering activity in oil and gas which combined with strong performance on projects in the quarter is contributing to higher margins.
As construction work starts to increase as a proportion of the project mix revenue will increase.
But as a result we expect the margin percentage to moderate in the second half of the year.
Industrial &amp; Infrastructure revenue continued to contract.
This contraction along with successful project closeouts on both the Mining &amp; Metals and Infrastructure business lines contributed to strong margins in the quarter.
In Power results for the quarter improved from a year ago mainly due to the accrual of approximately $17 million for FOA cost-sharing of NuScale expenses from the last 3 quarters which largely offset NuScale R&amp;D expenses of $21 million in the second quarter.
Corporate G&amp;A expense for the second quarter was $57 million up from $32 million a year ago.
The increase was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense as well as organizational realignment expenses including severance costs associated with some of the actions David described.
Please turn to Slide 9 to continue.
The effective tax rate in the second quarter was approximately 32% and we expect our tax rate for the remainder of the year to be between 32% and 33%.
During the quarter we recorded an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of $85 million or $0.54 per diluted share relating to an opinion from the Missouri Court of Appeals regarding the Doe Run lead business that was sold 20 years ago in 1994.
Both parties have filed motions for rehearing and we will continue to take steps to enforce the indemnification provided by the buyer of the lead business.
Depending on the ultimate resolution of the matter this legal ruling may result in cash outflows in the future.
For more background on the Doe Run issue please refer to the Form 8-K that we filed on June 17 2014.
Shifting to the balance sheet on Slide 10.
Cash plus current and noncurrent marketable securities totaled $2.7 billion.
As you know the balance at any day can be heavily influenced by the timing of large receipts.
During the quarter the company generated $239 million of positive cash flow from operating activities repurchased approximately $132 million worth of Fluor shares and paid $34 million in dividends to shareholders.
David gave the stats for the year-to-date cash return to shareholders.
I would like to further point out that over the last 4 quarters we returned approximately $650 million in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
This compares to operating cash flow of $972 million and free cash flow of $657 million over that period.
Free cash flow being operating cash flow less CapEx.
Moving to Slide 11 as previously mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog at quarter end was $40.3 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog remained at 20% and the mix by geography was 30% U.S.
and 70% non-U.S.
I will conclude my remarks by providing an update on our outlook for 2014 which is on Slide 12.
Results for the first 6 months were consistent with our expectation for lower overall revenue offset by improved margins.
Looking ahead the company expects that improved bottom line results primarily attributable to the continuing strength in oil and gas will drive stronger EPS in the second half of the year.
As a result the company is maintaining its full year guidance range for 2014 EPS from continuing operations at $4.10 to $4.45 per diluted share.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David so there's been mixed messages about the cycle.
I'm listening to your competitors which I'm sure you've heard.
Some guys have done well; some guys maybe not so much.
You seem pretty confident in your backlog and the potential for your backlog over the next couple of quarters and then into 2015.
But maybe you can talk about where we sit today versus 3 months ago and last year and the potential of the backlog to improve here in the second half of the year and in 2015.
Andy I don't think it's changed at all or at least my opinion of it.
We do a really good job of choosing carefully the projects we want to chase.
We're conservative in how we take them in and those projects are holding to the schedules that we expected.
We really haven't seen aside from mining any change in the decision-making process of our customers over the last little while.
Some things are moving quarter -- like this quarter to next quarter and next quarter to fourth quarter.
But FID decisions are still being made in pretty much the timely manner that we anticipated.
I still feel pretty positive about what I've said for the last year that the efforts that we took last year and the efforts in changing the way we're kind of doing our work has put us in a very good position to really look at the capital efficiency of these assets.
And I think we're -- our offering has been accepted by our customers readily.
And in the same vein I think we've become more cost competitive and hopefully continue to improve margins along the way.
Research Division</strong> So if we're sitting here next year at this time David backlog should be higher than it is today in your opinion? Yes I think so.
I think the real issue is how quickly these projects really move forward.
There's some big projects to come but I would be disappointed if it wasn't a bigger number as we talk next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then obviously you put up a very strong operating margin in Oil and Gas.
You knew everybody was going to ask about that.
Is this margin really a result of the Gulf Coast project starting to ramp up? And then stepping back how do we think about the evolution of revenue and earnings in oil and gas? I mean you did say in your prepared remarks that you see revenue will increase in the second half of '14.
But should we see more meaningful sequential increases than we saw in 2Q? And when you say margin will moderate what does that mean? Does it mean not going under 5% or can we see it lower? I know there's a few questions in there but it's all one point to another.
I'll do my best.
No I think it's interesting.
It's exactly where we thought it would be in E&amp;C.
And the reason is a couple-fold.
One as I mentioned early -- in earlier quarters we're seeing improved margin going in the backlog and that's a testament of what I said a minute ago about the way we are changing things to become more effective and the fact that we're being able to show that efficiencies to our customers.
So that's point #1.
Point #2 is we are -- there is a mix change in E&amp;C -- or not a change it's where we expect it to be relative to the EPC side of these projects.
It's not really -- in part it's due to the Gulf Coast but not really because in the case of CPChem in the case of the Dow projects and in the case of Sasol it's really in the early stages where it's engineering-only and we haven't seen the CFM or the construction scopes go in which typically attract a little bit lower margin.
When you look at our revenue overall it is basically what we expected because of the significant decrease in the mining business.
And if you remember back 1 year ago or 1.5 years ago a huge portion of that revenue is coming from mining.
So we're kind of seeing a little bit of a shift in market.
We're seeing the timing change of engineering versus construction specifically in E&amp;C.
When I -- I don't want to give you a specific number but it is going to moderate in E&amp;C but I don't think it's going to drop significantly.
That's probably as far as I'm going to go.
So Jamie that gives you kind of how to figure out how you're going to ask the next question.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And David just a very quick cleanup.
Can you tell us how much the severance costs were in the quarter by any chance? It's minimal.
Well I'd say it's minimal.
It was a little more than $6 million.
And we'll take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David can you say more about the realignment just flesh that out which businesses maybe it impacts more.
Maybe we're talking about a shared service concept there.
Can you just say more about that? And you folks have certainly been very successful in your bid win rate.
So can you just flesh out why the realignment at this point given the success that you folks have had? Well there's not a shared services model that's for sure.
But I think what we did is we flattened the organization.
And we've put some really talented people in business lines that are closer to our markets closer to our customers and in a better position to be more fleet of foot and answer -- be more responsive to our customers.
And I think that's resonating.
And I think that's -- that by and large is the reason why we're seeing the win rates that we are because we're listening better.
And we're tailoring those offerings specifically to what the clients need.
But I think rapid response to those customer needs is really what's driving the success.
I think if you look at the older organization which frankly I was an architect of with my predecessor and frankly created some silos that weren't healthy.
There was not the One Fluor mindset of collaboration and working across those business groups and business lines.
And I'm pleased to see that -- say that we've made rapid change in how we a address the markets; and b how we're collaborating and utilizing the entire asset of the company.
So I'm pretty pleased with the changes we made and the people that are in those leadership roles.
Research Division</strong> And David you highlighted high confidence in opportunities in Middle East and Asia for Oil and Gas EPC conversion.
I'm wondering can you just touch on the competitive landscape in those regions? We're hearing from the Korean and Chinese contractors who are increasingly more aggressive especially in those regions.
Are you seeing that at all? Or are these opportunities projects that are so significant that it's more of a Western competitive landscape? I think the first thing I would say is our offering and our success and hopefully our future success is really based on the value proposition that we're developing.
And I think we're doing a really good job of that and that's why you're seeing where we are.
Anecdotally I don't believe the Asian contractors are being as aggressive.
You saw what happened to the Korean contractors and I think that the new management team would like to keep their jobs for a while.
So I think we've seen a little bit of a moderating attitude relative to some of their predatory pricing decisions.
But look it's a competitive marketplace.
And we continue to look for how we deal with the people we compete against and the projects we go after.
So that selectivity sieve is alive and well within Fluor and I think it's paying dividends for us.
I will say that in some cases we're actively partnering with many of the competitors that we've talked about in the past and we're finding out how best to utilize their supply chain how to better utilize some of their abilities around technologies.
And again I think case in point is the Kuwait project that was awarded in the first quarter where you see us team with 2 Korean companies there.
So I feel really good about the value proposition that we're developing and the ability for us to articulate such that our customers choose us over the competition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure can you just say more about what you're seeing out of U.S.
infrastructure projects? Any reason to get more constructive? Are you seeing bid opportunities for public-private partnerships? I know you characterize it as competitive from a landscape standpoint but is the number of opportunities at least picking up? I'd say it's pretty stable right now.
I wouldn't say it's picking up.
And just about anything that's being done in the States is being done in some variation of a public-private partnership.
It is a competitive landscape.
And I think one of the benefits of a Fluor is we have the ability to say no when some of these pricing circumstances happen and we don't have to take projects because that's the only market we chase.
I think our diversity allows us to be selective.
I think the recent action and reaction in Congress is all in all positive.
We'll see where we go but I think a pretty robust comprehensive infrastructure program by the U.S.
government has to be part and parcel to the infrastructure remediation in the United States.
Affordable energy and good infrastructure is the basis of good economic development.
And I'd say they're probably equal in value to that -- into that proposition.
So I'm encouraged if we can actually get to something in Washington.
And I think that you'll see some growth in that market and I think we're well positioned to take advantage of again that value proposition we offer that market.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Mike Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I may not be as optimistic about how things are going to get done in Washington as you are David.
I didn't say I was optimistic.
I said if it happens it will be great.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just want to make sure you clarify that.
In Industrial &amp; Infrastructure with the Mining business are you finding the customers that are maybe starting to think about new projects or restarting older ones as prices improve? Are they looking to maybe do it themselves and go away from the EPC model? Or are the ones just waiting for their turn and then coming -- will come back to you and you'll start to maybe see some momentum in '15 and '16? How does that look? Well I think that we are seeing a pickup.
I think I talked about last quarter and again this quarter about increased study work and FEED work in mining which is encouraging.
But if you just stay on those normal schedules you're kind of middle of next year before you start to see the EPC projects come back.
As far as them doing themselves there may be some different models but I don't -- none of the mining companies really invested in additional people to do what they have contractors doing in the last period of time.
So I don't see that changing.
I think you may see some different contractual terms.
I think you may see these projects in maybe a little bit different division of scope or division of responsibility perspective.
But by and large I think the industry relies on good partners like ourselves and I think we're starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel if you will relative to mining.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
My follow-up David would be on the power side.
There's been a little bit more clarity on the regulatory front on what's going to happen with coal and natural gas opportunities and maybe even some renewables.
Any more sense of an optimism that we could maybe see that market surprise to the upside in 2015 and '16 as these utilities have to start to come in with some of these orders? Guardedly so Michael.
I think that even if you look at the EPA rules it's still 20 years before they have to comply give or take completely.
And I think they're still going to take time to kind of rationalize what they have.
Most of our customers have to deal with a rate base and going back to the rate base for additional money isn't something that they relish.
So I think they're going to be very measured in how they go forward relative to not only the coal cleanup fees but also in terms of gas.
I do think that we've got the potential to maybe surprise a little bit a little bit in power as we go into next year.
We'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I have to say this is the first time within Oil and Gas an E&amp;C company has surprised me on the positive on the margins side and not on the top line side.
But David -- but I guess David I've never seen in my years covering this and I don't want to age myself an E&amp;C company posts such strong margins in the beginning of the cycle and recognizing the mix factor which I do feel you've never done this before.
So my question is is there something more Fluor-specific? You're starting to talk about the changes that you're making and maybe you don't want to go out yet and -- because it's early on.
But is there something more Fluor-specific here whereas we think that margins over a cycle they should increase sort of peak to peak? And then my second question as relates to the revenues.
Because the revenues -- and I know Andy's sort of asked this but the revenues on the Oil and Gas side I think continue to surprise people on the downside.
I'll take it because your profit dollars are there.
But some other contractors have talked about projects not moving into the construction phase at the pace that they want it to.
Is any of that in your first half numbers? And how much of a risk is that to the second half? I'd say none of it none of it.
And I'd say very little is at risk in the out years.
On the last -- in answer to the last question first revenues were exactly where we expected for them to be in Oil and Gas.
And I think they'll build from there.
We've got some very large projects still to be awarded even this year and more next year.
So I believe that this cycle as I've said before will be larger than it was in the last cycle which leads me to answer your first question.
First I'm not going to go into details because our competitors are pretty smart folks and I don't want to give them the playbook.
But we have made significant changes.
I've talked about that in previous calls.
Some of the work that Peter Oosterveer and his team took on 3 years ago are starting to pay dividends.
We are -- we have changed the way we are executing and we're using some different tools and execution platforms that allow us to be much more competitive in the marketplace and at the same time return better margins to our shareholders.
So I think that we've really done some good work organizationally both in terms of oil and gas and what they've done which relates to the margin that's there but across the company.
Some of the flattening that I spoke of and removing some of these silos that we're seeing tremendous progress in terms of that complete Fluor sale.
And I feel really good about where we're headed.
Specifically about E&amp;C I would agree with you.
It is ahead of what we saw in the last cycle.
As I said it will moderate a little bit as we go through this year.
And I expect strong performance from that -- from those business lines over this cycle.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just a follow-up question just on Kitimat.
Obviously there's been a lot of news in -- on Kitimat and what's happening with Apache.
And recognizing that there's only so much that you can say.
I mean to what degree do you think there's risk that Kitimat has to be taken out of backlog or that whatever you're assuming in terms of revenue burn isn't conservative enough? And then I'll get back in queue.
Jamie Apache's announcement is absolutely no surprise to us.
And we'll see where that goes.
I defer to Chevron to really talk about where that is.
But we've seen no actions that give us concern that there's a backlog issue.
Clearly if there's a sale there might be some timing elements to it.
But I still think that that project from a business model perspective from a regulatory perspective is still very solid.
We'll take our next question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Chad on the line for Vishal.
Last quarter you had mentioned that you are targeting a couple of LNG projects on the Gulf Coast.
Can you give us an update on where you are in the bidding process and expectations for timing? Early stages probably not a '14 event.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the Power side can you talk about where you are with finding a buyer for NuScale? Is there any progress to report or any timing that we should be thinking about? Well I think signing -- finally signing that cooperative agreement with the government was a big step because that basically was in my opinion the good housekeeping seal of approval on the technology and the fact that the DOE and the NRC see it as something that's very viable that they're willing to participate in.
That was behind our schedule which retarded our ability to attract investors.
Now that it's signed sealed and delivered and we're moving down the road we've seen an uptick in discussions with potential partners and manufacturing partners.
And I feel good about the prospects of bringing some people in as we probably close this year and get into next year.
We'll take our next question from Sameer Rathod with Macquarie.
Do you think this budding trend of exporting ethane could derail the U.S.
pet chem cycle? It seems like a significant part of the ethane market and it seems like a lot of it's going to be used for hot gas versus potential retrofit projects in Europe.
I don't because most of -- well the 3 crackers we're working on are specifically for downstream derivatives that fit their business model.
And ethane for ethane purposes isn't what they're getting into.
There could be a cracker built for export alone but I think it's the whole value chain that our customers are looking at.
And as long as gas prices are kind of where they are or a little bit up a little bit down the business models still work.
Right.
I guess just to clarify my question the dynamic of exporting ethane it seems like a huge part of the market.
So you're not -- you don't think that will potentially derail future projects.
Is that -- just to be clear.
No I don't.
And we'll hear next from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> In the release you guys mentioned that you expect to see improvement in the number of businesses in the second half.
So I guess if you could just talk a little bit about which businesses should see that ramp up in profit dollars as the year goes on and I guess why specifically.
Well I mean obviously Oil and Gas is the big engine right now.
I think we will see improvement in Power.
I think we will see improvement in our Industrial Services piece of our business.
I think we'll see strong performance in Infrastructure.
I think we'll see kind of a bottoming out and from a profit perspective starting to rise as we get into next year in Mining.
Government's still got a little bit of headwind just simply because LOGCAP IV was so large and it is shrinking.
But I'm happy to say that our government guys have done a good job of starting to refill the bucket when you think about supreme -- sorry the Strategic Petroleum Reserve win as well as Paducah.
So they're acting on their strategy to fill that hole up but that's a big hole to fill when you think about how large LOGCAP was.
So in general I think there's some puts and takes but at the end of the day I see a pretty bright spot relative to the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify so the power ramp-up is that the Dominion project starting to really get to a point where it's really ramped up? And is Infrastructure sort of Tappan Zee where you're recognizing more profitability? What's the 2 things in those particular segments? Power is not Dominion.
I think we're going to see some improvement in project intake and obviously the profitability that comes from that.
It's not going to be that much but it is more which is a good thing.
Relative to the infrastructure I mean they got a lot of programs going on.
They're still bidding a lot of programs.
But strong performance on Tappan Zee the Horseshoe project some of the stuff in Europe.
I mean it's a pretty broad business and I'm not saying it's going to be hugely increasing but it will be a strong part of the earnings stream of the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Biggs typically cash flow tends to be back-end weighted.
Is there anything different about this year? Obviously it's been pretty solid in the first half.
But should we look forward to another good strong second half of the year as well? Well I don't see anything different about this year but it is challenging to predict where it's going to land in any given quarter.
And remember I had in my comments a statement that it's always influenced significantly by the timing of some major receipts which was in fact the case for the second quarter.
We had some large receipts come in right before the end of the quarter.
So whether or not those hit right before or after the end of the year have -- can have a big impact so it's hard to be precise.
But if you kind of look through that we expect the same kind of patterns overall this year and next and expect good strong operating cash flow performance as we go through time.
I don't see a big change.
We'll hear next from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is David if you were to frame the restructuring and from what you've discussed on the call does it sort of add flexibility and juice to what the industry refers to as A-team? Does it sort of expand the quality of the teams in a way? Well I think it does.
I think we've been successful.
I mean when you look at the last kind of wave 2 of the main -- we were able to in Mining kind of leverage some of the talent from E&amp;C in the last cycle.
And we in fact had a couple of projects run by E&amp;C project directors.
And it allowed us to expand that market.
I think that one of the things that really makes me feel good is by becoming more efficient I think we've been able to quicken the cycle time if you will in some of these projects which frees up teams to do more projects more quickly.
So the bandwidth of the company expands but also I think the flexibility and agility of the company has improved because of the changes that we've made.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then my second question was in regards to a topic that doesn't get that much attention but would love an update from yourselves on the outlook and that's really micro-LNG and maybe sort of more small scale GTLs.
And I know you guys presented recently at a GTL conference where you talked about integrated GTL with refineries being potentially more economical.
Would love to see if that's getting interest from your customers.
Well I think they are interested and we continue to kind of look at how we can improve the capital efficiency for those customers.
I think it's early stages.
But I mean when you think back when they finally figured out that if you debottleneck a refinery and put an aromatics plant behind it you can create more profitability.
And that's decades-old.
So we continue to push on technologies we continue to push on what that efficiency needs to be.
But it's early stages.
I mean I think if you look at LNG I think floating LNG is probably the next one to really move forward.
But I still think that's going to take some time.
We'll hear next from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Actually just coming back to the petrochemical commentary.
Maybe just give us a gauge as to how many crackers you anticipate will be built at this point.
I know you gave numbers for floating out there maybe 5 6 maybe 1 or 2 more after that.
But around that range I think was kind of the consensus.
Maybe if you'd give us an idea of where you see things standing today and maybe give us a snapshot of what you think the derivatives market looks like as well.
Well I think the derivatives market will pick up.
I think these 3 crackers are the ones that obviously had the tea leaves right if you will relative to their business plan and timing.
So I think we were very pleased that we were successful on those 3.
The other ones I think are kind of on a slow roll.
You've seen some people pull back on their spending on a couple of them.
I still think there's a couple more to be built in North America.
But I think we're probably into '15 before any significant work's done on any of them.
LLC</strong> That's on the second grouping into '15? Yes 2 to 3.
LLC</strong> Okay.
2 to 3.
And then just separately.
Just kind of on the guidance so you kept the range.
You're talking qualitatively that the oil and gas margin is going to say pretty healthy in this 5 range.
Your I&amp;I margins have been pretty solid 6 and above.
I'm not certain what -- if you made a comment about it being in the second half.
But it does seem like you're trending towards the high end if the profitability does stay at these levels if not better.
Maybe just give us a sense if there's some offsets we should be thinking about in the second half that might be offsetting the profitability of the revenue in H2.
I do think on I&amp;I the margins in the first half are higher than what we would expect for the second half.
There is a -- there continues to be some opportunity for them to do better than their historic average.
But they certainly have done just very well related to closeout of programs particularly in the mining business in the first half.
And it's hard to say that that's going to repeat at that kind of level.
The -- I think -- so you get the big drivers of oil and gas.
It is going to have revenue growth margins will moderate.
Of course we said that last quarter and they in fact moved it up this one but we do expect it to move back down because we think those revenues are going to come in and moderate that and then I&amp;I will moderate.
So I think it's a matter of balance overall between the moving parts.
Global Services we didn't talk a lot about.
David went through the various businesses.
But they will be getting some headwinds from withdrawals from Afghanistan in the second half.
That really hasn't hit them yet.
They've been down on lower mining effort.
But as the equipment gets repositioned in the third and fourth quarter that will create some headwind for them.
LLC</strong> Great.
If I could just ask one more thing.
Just on the DOE funding so I just want to make sure this is a matched funding agreement that you established correct? So it's not going to reduce your spending on the program.
Yes the net spending was about $50 million last year.
We still expect it to be around that on a net expense basis this year.
And I'll just add on to that.
I mean the ability to reduce that further would come from us selling our interest down which as David said we might be able to get another investor in before the end of this year one or more but that wouldn't likely have a big effect on this year's spend.
That would be more prospective.
We'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I was just wondering on the EPS effect if the reimbursement roughly offset the R&amp;D expense and what that number was on an EPS line.
Well the expense was I believe around $21 million and the reimbursement $17 million.
So yes it was pretty much an offset for our new scale for the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there was also just for housekeeping a gain on sale in the quarter of about $12 million.
Can you guys elaborate that? I saw that in the cash flow statement.
Well we have gains on sale most every quarter.
It's pretty frequent.
Our Equipment business when we take equipment off of lease or take it off of a project and dispose of it typically we have gains.
That's a recurring kind of gain.
There's no particular reason to focus on it that I could see.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And qualitatively David can you give us an update just on where Sasol is? Do you still expect that sort of 4Q and Mozambique being -- I think last time -- last quarter was about a mid-2015 event? Were there any changes to that? No.
That's about where we think.
We'll hear next from Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess I want to dig in to the I&amp;I segment a little bit more.
Biggs did you say that you expect the I&amp;I segment to be up here in the back half of the year? Was that what you said? Was that sequentially or was that year-over-year? It sounded like [indiscernible].
No we don't expect it to have increasing EBIT in the second half of the year.
What you've got is really strong performance in the first half based upon Mining coming down but having great margins.
We do expect to have Mining continue to be a negative trend in the second half.
Infrastructure specifically however could be improving in the second half.
But I wouldn't look for a big net move out of the combined elements.
Research Division</strong> For the quarter the Q disclosed that there was closeouts like you mentioned in both Mining and Transportation.
Can you quantify for those so that we can get maybe a better sense of what the underlying margins were for the business? No I think it gets way too finite to try to differentiate the progress of the projects and how much is closeout versus how much is normal run rate.
We do want you to understand that it had a positive effect but it gets really tough to start to quantify one set of circumstances versus another and have it produce real meaning for you.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then if I could I wanted to dig in a little bit into the awards clearly driven by the government awards this quarter.
With the accounting changes that you guys did on the backlog at the end of last year can you tell us about how much of that is funded versus unfunded? Well it is disclosed in the 10-Q so I'd refer you to that.
You can get all the proper details on unfunded versus funded.
Right now as of today the Magnox isn't funded because of the way the funding mix business work in the U.K.
But we expect that that will become substantially funded in just a couple of months.
So the way they work through the legislative process they award a contract and then it becomes in this case funded in fairly short order.
And I'll remind you that we changed to be consistent with our competitors in how we take in government backlog.
And also I mentioned in my prepared remarks on Magnox we only took our portion of that in.
And also it's consistent with how we do commercial.
So government and commercial are really lined up.
It's just commercial doesn't have that same hard line you can draw between what's funded and unfunded but it basically works the same way.
Research Division</strong> Yes that'll make sense.
Just in terms of with some of these newer projects coming in and LOGCAP ramping down what's your guys' outlook for the margins in that business? Is this something we've been I guess what 2.3% this quarter but should we expect that to head higher as we move into mobilization on these newer wins? Right now the -- within government you've got a number of moving forces.
LOGCAP's coming down which is actually higher margin than average business.
But they're also spending quite a bit on bidding and proposal expenses which has a negative effect on EBIT.
So it's going to transition over time.
And I think it's premature to say what a new run rate is going to be for government.
We have to watch it as the new business comes in and as it -- what's the nature of that business and what's the margin in each specific contract.
And we'll hear next from Justin Ward with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just -- I wanted to delve into your new awards in Oil and Gas a little bit.
Obviously new awards in general always lumpy.
But the swing from Q1 to Q2 was by far the largest you guys had ever had either up or down.
In this case obviously it's down.
Why all of a sudden you're seeing lumpiness there? Should we just kind of write that off as lumpiness? Or is there something more we could read into that as a reflection of...
I think it's just the normal lumpiness.
It is a bigger number than has been traditional but there's no hidden meaning in that.
I think projects are getting bigger.
And because they're getting bigger as I've said in the past maybe some decisions move quarter-over-quarter.
We historically will see 1 or 2 big projects either move forward or move back in time relative to any given quarter.
So it's nothing more than the normal lumpiness that we expect in that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one on the reorg.
It sounds like as you guys see the benefits kind of coming through here it's getting pretty exciting.
And does that kind of motivate you to continue to push for more and more change? And is the transformation kind of a moving target and kind of what stage are we at in that transformation? Well we've got a very specific plan of attack relative to transformation that started 3.5 years ago.
And we are exactly on the schedule that I had put forth then which did include some of the organizational realignment.
We're right on time with that.
I think that some of the improvements that have been made in our execution delivery are clearly maturing.
And I think that will only improve from there to make us a more competitive; b more sure of our delivery in terms of cost and schedule; and c they're absolutely aligned with what our customers are looking for relative to capital efficiencies.
But I would say that -- I wouldn't say that -- sometimes I use a baseball analogy and use innings.
I would not suggest that that applies to what we're doing because we're focused on a continuous performance improvement cycle and we're going to continue to keep the pressure on the organization to continue to improve.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one more quick one.
You touched on the pricing environment in the Middle East a little bit.
There's been a lot of discussion about pricing may be a little bit more aggressive in North America from the Western competitors.
What are you guys seeing there? Well I wasn't speaking specifically about the Middle East.
I was more pointing towards the U.S.
I mean we've seen some really aggressive pricing in the power market and in the infrastructure market.
And again we've got the profit expectations built into what our offering is and we'll let the chips fall where they may.
But I would say that we've seen an increased competitive landscape in North America.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess does that apply to the Oil and Gas as well? Or is it mostly just Power and Infrastructure? It's all over the place.
I mean look guys I mean there's no time in my history in this company where I've seen the competition not fierce.
And I think you will always be fierce in this business.
And that's just incumbent upon us to continue to improve and continue to be cost-effective but at the same time make sure that we're demanding the profitability that we need to return to the shareholders as they expect.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> David I just want to follow up for a second.
What are you hearing from customers relative to peers around cost increases either labor materials? I mean it seems like some of that pressure has gone away but is there anything out there that they're talking about that might cause them to move forward with some of these projects a little bit quicker? Well I think that some of that is built into what we think the FID dates are going to be because I think they are wary of escalation in terms of labor and materials particularly engineered equipment.
Labor on the craft side of North America is a challenge and will continue to be a challenge.
And I think we're taking the right steps to make sure we got the right answer both in terms of what the customer expects and more importantly what we expect.
When you look at the supply chain it is robust.
But frankly on the engineered equipment items there has been no investment in additional capacity.
So I think the market is going to get tight.
And I think we're just helping our customers understand what that means and take that risk into account as we help them get to that spending decision.
But I wouldn't say that that's extraordinary today versus 1 year ago or 5 years ago.
I think they are a little more attuned to it because you've heard them talk about capital efficiency.
And I'm glad to say that we're absolutely aligned with them in that regard.
Research Division</strong> But based on your experience and going back in the power cycles I mean it seems to me that generally that fear of cost increases causes some of them to move forward a little more quickly or urgently.
It doesn't sound like we're...
Yes I mean I think if you just take the United States and the Gulf Coast as an example when you take Shell's GTL plant out of the equation and you delay Sasol's to they're saying 18 months behind the cracker that's a huge relief valve.
Because those are big big projects that are heavy in piping which has welders and materials and pipe materials and spools and everything that goes with that which are -- which could -- can be pinchpoints from a schedule standpoint.
So you've seen the industry kind of moderate based on the sequencing of the projects and some of them going away.
So I think to your point the customers have gotten a little more comfortable with some of the decisions.
But it's based on that more than any other factor.
Research Division</strong> And you don't see that changing near term? Or I mean the next 2 years? No.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thanks to all of you for participating on the call today.
I think as evidenced by our results this quarter you can see that our Oil and Gas group continues to perform very well and has good line of sight and a lengthy size -- list of sizable prospects.
And Government is making progress and winning a number of new long-term programs that will in part stem the impact of continued LOGCAP Task Order reductions.
While Power and Infrastructure award levels continue to disappoint these markets represent I think a good growth potential over the long term.
With that we greatly appreciate your interest in our company as well as your confidence in Fluor.
With that I will bid you all a goodbye and have a good day.
And again this does conclude today's Fluor Corporation's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
We thank you again for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 5 at the following telephone number: (888) 203-1112.
The passcode of 5937050 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Ken Lockwood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lockwood.
Thanks very much operator and welcome everyone to Fluor's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after the market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our safe harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which we have summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
Also during this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
So with that I will turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Ken.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we had a very good quarter including strong earnings significant new awards and growth in backlog.
On today's call we'll review these results our guidance for the balance of '14 as well as talk about our initial guidance for 2015.
If you'll turn to Slide 3 I want to begin by covering some of the highlights from the third quarter.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor from continuing operations were $183 million or $1.15 per diluted share which compares with $173 million or $1.05 per diluted share a year ago.
Our consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $335 million which was an 8% increase from $311 million a year ago.
The growth in segment profit results was primarily driven by a 65% increase in Oil &amp; Gas reflecting very strong performance.
As expected Oil &amp; Gas margins declined slightly from last quarter as project execution on existing projects increased but we're still at a very strong 5.5%.
Consolidated revenue for the quarter was $5.4 billion which is down from $6.7 billion a year ago but again mainly due to significantly lower revenues in Mining &amp; Metals business.
Oil &amp; Gas revenues increased 15% over last quarter as existing projects and backlog transitioned from a detailed engineering phase into the field and construction as construction gets underway.
New awards for the quarter were strong at $6 billion including $4.5 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $700 million in Government $460 million in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and $382 million in Power.
Consolidated backlog at the quarter end rose to $42.3 billion which is up 16% from $36.5 billion a year ago.
Our financial results are summarized on Table 4 and I'll continue my remarks on Slide 5.
During the quarter the Oil &amp; Gas segment booked new awards of $4.5 million as I -- billion as I said previously which includes a refinery project in Malaysia for Petronas and the Fort Hills oil sands project in Canada.
The Oil &amp; Gas segment also continues to book a number of small- to medium-sized projects which indicates our clients are still moving forward with FEED and detailed engineering projects.
Ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas segment was a record $26.5 billion which is up 41% from a year ago.
We continue to track a robust list of sizable projects in the United States Mexico the Middle East and Asia and expect a number of major FEED programs to convert to EPC as we move to 2015.
Finally our success in the U.S.
petrochemical market continues with the award of Sasol Chemicals Complex in Louisiana which we announced earlier this week.
Fluor with our partner Technip will execute all aspects of this world-class ethane cracker and derivatives complex.
We will take this project into backlog in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 6.
New awards for Industrial &amp; Infrastructure were modest at $460 million and included a number of small mining and industrial services awards.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $8.7 billion down from $13 billion a year ago.
This decline continues to be driven by a lack of significant awards and moving into EPC for the Mining &amp; Metals business line.
Mining &amp; Metals business market however is showing some very early signs of returning with FEED and study work picking up.
We could see some small- to mid-sized awards in the near term with potential for a few major prospects by the end of next year.
We continue to pursue a number of prospects in Infrastructure.
However a highly competitive marketplace remains unchanged.
We expect to book the A9 public-private partnership-financed highway project in the Netherlands in the fourth quarter and have several opportunities in the United States as we are pursuing in 2015.
Now if you turn to Slide 7.
It shows the Government group posted new awards of $700 million which includes approximately $400 million for the Department of Energy's Paducah Gaseous Diffusion plant in Kentucky.
This is a great project that allows us to deploy our decade-long nuclear remediation expertise and adds another long-term contract to our DOE portfolio.
Ending backlog for Government stood at $5.2 billion similar to last quarter.
With regard to LOGCAP IV we expect task order volumes to moderate downward as a number of the sites and personnel that we have served are reduced.
For 2015 we anticipate full year revenue of approximately $800 million down from just about $1 billion in 2014.
The release of task order awards will obviously depend on the U.S.
strategy in Afghanistan on an ongoing basis.
The Power segment new awards were $382 million as I said including engineering and construction for new gas-fired power plant in South Carolina.
Ending backlog was $1.8 billion compared to 2.8 -- $2.1 billion a year ago.
We continue to bid for new gas-fired opportunities in North America and expect opportunities for power generation and plant betterment to improve in 2015.
With that I'd like to now turn it to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David.
Good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to Slide 8 of the presentation.
I'll start by providing a few comments on our third quarter performance then move to the balance sheet.
As expected overall revenue for the quarter was down fairly significantly year-over-year mainly due to the continued falloff in mining activity.
Oil &amp; Gas revenue improved 12% compared to last year and increased 15% over last quarter.
While we continue to execute a substantial amount of higher margin FEED activity in Oil &amp; Gas large projects are starting to move into the field which will generate higher revenue and cause the margin on a percent basis to moderate.
Industrial &amp; Infrastructure revenue continued to contract.
This contraction along with successful project closeouts in Mining &amp; Metals and favorable project execution performance from infrastructure contributed a strong margin in the -- margins in the quarter.
Turning to Slide 9.
Corporate G&amp;A expenses for the third quarter were $35 million down from $46 million a year ago.
The decrease was mainly due -- or mainly the result of lower stock price-driven compensation costs.
The effective tax rate in the third quarter was approximately 33% an increase from the 29% tax rate a year ago.
The lower 2013 rate was due to U.S.
federal tax research credits which were not extended beyond 2013.
We expect our tax rate for the remainder of 2014 to be between 32% and 33%.
Please turn to Slide 10.
Before I move to the balance sheet I want to provide an update on discontinued operations with regard to the Doe Run lead business which the company sold in 1994.
In October we entered into a settlement agreement with counsel for a number of plaintiffs who had filed lawsuits against the company.
As a result in the third quarter we recorded an additional after-tax charge of discontinued operations.
This settlement is expected to result in cash outflows upon the receipt of releases from the plaintiffs.
We do not expect any material charges to result from our main lawsuits relating to the Doe Run lead business.
Finally Fluor's Board of Directors approved the termination of the U.S.-defined benefit pension plan effective December 31 2014.
The settlement of the plan subject to regulatory approval is expected to be complete in 2015.
The company expects to recognize additional expenses when the plan is settled including unrecognized actuarial losses of approximately $160 million included in accumulated other comprehensive loss plus additional amounts where the settlement obligation exceeds the current pension liability.
We do not expect the settlement to have a material impact on cash position.
Settling this plan will result in lower future expenses and eliminate the risk of rising Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp premiums.
Shifting to the balance sheet on Slide 11.
Cash plus current and noncurrent marketable securities totaled $2.4 billion down from $2.7 billion last quarter.
This quarterly decline was primarily due to increased working capital balances at quarter end.
In addition the company repurchased approximately $100 million worth of shares and paid $33 million in dividends.
As of September 30 for the year we have returned approximately $504 million to cash -- in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
While substantial already we intend to pick up the pace of share repurchases from the third quarter level.
Moving to Slide 12.
As previously mentioned Fluor's consolidated backlog at quarter end was $42.3 billion.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog declined to 18% and the mix by geography was 28% U.S.
and 72% non-U.S.
I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2014 and 2015 which is on Slide 13.
In line with my comments in early September we are narrowing our 2014 guidance from continuing operations to a range of $4.10 to $4.30 per diluted share from the previous range of $4.10 to $4.45 per diluted share.
For 2015 we're establishing our initial EPS guidance at a range of $4.50 to $5 per diluted share.
Our range for 2015 reflects a rising backlog and solid growth opportunities in Oil &amp; Gas and a stable to moderate improvement in the company's other end markets.
This range excludes any pension settlement-related charges because they are not fully estimable at this time.
For 2015 we anticipate growing revenue contributions from all business groups and expect earnings to grow over the course of the year.
Guidance for 2015 assumes a G&amp;A expense will be in the range of $190 million to $200 million and an effective tax rate of 33% to 35%.
For 2015 we expect CapEx to run roughly in line with the pace this year at around $300 million.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions.
First David I know you don't like questions on guidance within guidance but I'll ask it anyway because last year you sort of set yourself up for it.
When you guided last year you said earnings should be sort of back-end-weighted versus first half.
And as I look at the guidance today I'm just trying to get a feel for how you're thinking about guidance.
Should we expect earnings growth each quarter? Is it more back-end loaded? And then the second question to that would be over the past couple of years when you've guided you've tended to hit the low end of your range versus the historic Fluor which has tended to sort of be in raise [ph] and I feel like your margins are finally coming through.
Your revenue is trying to -- finally growth is starting to come through on the Oil &amp; Gas side which makes me hopeful the low end of your range is probably fairly conservative.
And then my last question is on I&amp;I.
The margins in -- throughout the year have been fairly impressive and I know there were some -- in the third quarter you had some closeouts and you had favorable mix but I'm just trying to think about sustainable margins in I&amp;I on a go-forward basis.
Is the 6% range the way to think about it with Mining now a smaller percent of the total? Thanks Jamie.
You're right I don't like giving guidance within the guidance.
I could give you a smart answer and say that I'm hoping that our SG&amp;A is significantly higher in the following quarters because our stock price is much higher and the related executive compensation follows.
But I think in terms of where we are I'd go back to what I told you guys the last couple of quarters.
We're in the early stages of I think a very long very large cycle in Oil &amp; Gas.
I do believe that Mining and Infrastructure are poised to return as we get through next year.
So I guess I'm not going to say it's back-end loaded but I think that it's going to be fairly normal throughout the year.
I'll ask Biggs to kind of give a little bit of color on that particularly around I&amp;I.
Yes.
So as David said it's normal but in a growth period normal would mean that it's going to go up as we go through the year.
So I don't think that should surprise anybody that it will be a progression.
The guidance is a guidance.
I don't think it makes sense to be more qualitative about it kind of a question in the middle there.
But with respect to the I&amp;I margin it definitely was high for the quarter.
Somewhat a numerator and denominator concern or phenomenon because revenues have gone down with Mining.
But we had good performance on Mining projects as they close out and we had very good performance on Infrastructure projects.
So clearly a high-level income relative to revenue led to the higher margins.
I think that going forward it obviously is early going into the year.
But I think probably we should expect more the 4% to 5% kind of levels as opposed to 6%.
But with good performance certainly there's an opportunity to do better than that.
Research Division</strong> I guess just last question and I promise I'll get back in queue David.
When I think about your bookings within Oil &amp; Gas they've been fairly impressive considering you've been booking work cost-plus relative to some of your peers who were booking work fixed price.
So how do I think about the profitability of the stuff you're putting in backlog given that you're still booking it cost-plus and the market is still fairly competitive? I mean is it customers are wanting the higher-end contract? Or is it what you've alluded to before Fluor has a better mousetrap today relative to where you were before so your margins are better? Just some color there and then I'll get back in queue.
I think you answered my question -- your own question.
Research Division</strong> See how smart I am? I'm telling you it's amazing.
I think I'd stick with what I've said.
We continue to improve the quality of margin and backlog.
I can't speak to what our competition's doing but I can speak to the fact that we're winning a fair amount of work and the quality is improving.
So you can figure out what that means.
We will end up booking some fixed-price projects as we get into next year that will be sizable.
And I feel very confident about the execution approach to deliver the profitability at the end of the day.
And again I think it will be improving margin and backlog.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David so going -- looking at the Oil &amp; Gas market I mean obviously you watch the same stuff we do.
Maybe you can step back and talk about your confidence level in today's Oil &amp; Gas market in the sense that do you still feel very confident that you can maintain or grow Oil &amp; Gas backlog over the next year or so? And what do your customers say especially some of the guys who are maybe in the higher cost areas about places like the oil sands and stuff when we see this kind of volatility? That's a great question Andy.
The -- I think that we will continue to book in the face of what we see.
But just from a perspective standpoint if you look back 3 4 years ago we were at $80 oil then.
And if you compare then with now and CapEx spend with those major Oil &amp; Gas customers then and now it's pretty consistent.
Now some of the marginal players -- maybe some of the non-integrateds might have a little bit more issues than the integrateds but I think they'll trim in some areas.
But the things that we're focused on they need to maintain either reserve replacement or to maintain market share.
And any kind of fuel or derivative chemical product is there.
Low oil prices and low gas prices obviously makes people like Sasol happy.
So I think that continues as well.
We have not seen our customers run to the doors so to speak relative to their capital plans.
I think it's business as usual with maybe a little more scrutiny on some of the marginal projects that are out there.
But the things that we're chasing I feel -- I have great confidence in them continuing to go and those that are in front of us to reach FID.
I feel pretty good about where we stand.
But from a perspective standpoint I don't think it dropping from $100 a barrel to $80-something a barrel markedly changes our customers' spending behaviors particularly now when they're focused more on capital efficiency.
And we're lined up for that.
So I think even in a tighter market I think it puts us in a better position actually.
Research Division</strong> And to be clear though David even at $26 billion and change of backlog in Oil &amp; Gas do you still feel like it can grow over the next year even with burn rates increasing? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good.
So David this might be for Biggs but if you can chime in that's great too.
When we look at your new '15 guidance I mean you have a few businesses that need to turn from what they've been doing over the last couple of years especially I&amp;I when we look at revenue.
And I keep thinking it might stabilize in terms of revenue but you look at the backlog and it's still down obviously very significantly.
So what should give us conviction in the statement that Biggs made that revenue should rise in all of the segments? I'd say I'd single out I&amp;I and Government as 2 segments that I worry about a little bit.
Well talk about those 2 specifically I mean from a revenue backlog standpoint I&amp;I is really driven by Mining.
And we are beginning the early stages of the next wave.
There's some big programs that maybe took a little bit of hiatus that are being dusted off.
But again I think it's sometime mid-next year before we start to see any action there.
On Government honestly filling up what we earned and burned on LOGCAP is going to be a hard road.
So I don't see Government's backlog necessarily increasing over the near term.
But I think with Oil &amp; Gas the start back of mining a few other things that we're doing.
Power is a great story with some of the wins that they've got.
Even though this quarter it appears that their backlog is marginally down over last quarter we still see growth there as well.
So just kind of some color.
So I dont know Biggs if you'd like to follow on that.
Well I think you got it all right.
One thing I'd add on on Government if you look at margins their margins are pretty low in the first half of this year improved in the third quarter on project performance.
And we would expect the first half of next year certainly to be at a better margin performance level than the first half of this year.
So that alone gives you some lift on Government.
I think David's right on everything else that he said.
I think that we -- consistently with what I said in early September that through the second half of this year we saw those businesses forming fairly flat but then we'd be able to improve from there.
So I think that's what we're looking for.
Research Division</strong> So Biggs is it fair to say that I&amp;I revenue could stabilize at current levels from 3Q? I don't want to get too specific.
I think I just want to say there is opportunity for them to continue to improve certainly on the bottom line.
On revenue I'd look for possibly a dip initially as we continue to transition out of some of the old for mining work but then maybe go up from there.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Fluor's done a pretty good job and you guys have done a pretty good job in the U.S.
pretty much splitting the U.S.
cracker market.
You guys won 3.
So just wondering going forward in the U.S.
what else you guys are possibly looking at? Is there more downstream petrochemical work as well as to get a flavor of what type of projects and -- are out there on the Oil &amp; Gas side internationally speaking? I know you gave us a geographic breakdown but just trying to get a flavor of particularly what end markets.
Well in the U.S.
it's pretty broad.
And I wouldn't -- I would also add Power to the U.S.
story as well as Infrastructure to the story in the out-years.
Clearly I remember sitting in this call 4 5 6 years ago and saying that maybe 1 maybe 2 crackers will be built in the United States and now there's 2 or 3 more that are -- that really have merit that we're pursuing right now.
So I think there's still more to come there.
I think there's a significant amount of refining work coming.
We feel good about a couple of projects that we're already working on on the front-end some of the front-end pre-FID things that look very very positive.
So I think the U.S.
has still got a lot of headroom over the next couple of years clearly from a new award perspective and then obviously for the next 2 to 3 from an earnings perspective.
So I'm a little bit bullish on the United States.
I don't think the peak is going to be as high as maybe we expected a couple of years ago which really put a hard -- really put craft labor in a hard spot.
But we feel like we're in a pretty good position on craft resources and being able to deliver those projects.
So I feel pretty good about where we are in the U.S.
Canada continues to be a great market for us as evidenced by the oil sands work that we continue to do.
But then you look outside the United States Latin America is a growth area for us particularly Mexico.
I think in Southeast Asia there's more work obviously than just the Petronas project that we were awarded.
But that's from China Sakhalin all the way down into Southeast Asia I think are growth markets.
The Middle East still continues to be a great place for us and there's significant opportunity there as well as Southern Africa both on the South and Eastern sides of the continent.
So I think that everybody over the last few years has kind of salivated over the U.S.
market.
It's important.
But from Fluor's perspective it's only one piece of the pie for us.
So like I say I mean we're a global company and have global reach and that gives us access to a lot of capital spend.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess for my follow-up just on the equipment business.
Just trying to get a flavor of when you expect the timing to sort of roll over from the Afghanistan work and mining work and when we'll start to see that reflected on the ramp in Oil &amp; Gas.
Well we're just starting to go to the field on a couple of projects in the U.S.
with several more to come.
So I think were sometime next year when it kind of flattens out.
I mean we had a lot of business in Afghanistan for both -- primarily for other than Fluor which took a bigger hit in Afghanistan relative to the forward operating base shutdowns and which assets actually stayed operating.
So that was -- it's almost like the decline in Government is more exaggerated in our equipment business.
But I tell you it's a solid business and it's part of that critical path we need relative to having the equipment tools and things we need to build these things.
So I believe that there are probably -- 20% of AMECO's business right now is actually Fluor work.
I think that will shift dramatically as we get through next year.
And we'll hear next from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> David can you just comment on how the execution is going on your fixed-price projects right now? Pretty good.
I feel really good about where we stand.
I mean it's got the normal puts and takes as any project does but I feel really good about where we are at this stage of the game on our fixed-price projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no concerns there it sounds like.
Remember it's only 18% of our backlog.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Biggs how are you thinking about cash flow in Q4 and in 2015? And what are your latest thoughts about what to do with your international cash? Okay.
On the first question as I said there were some timing matters with respect to cash in the third quarter.
As a matter of fact I say that -- I always say that cash in any particular quarter can be heavily influenced by timing when you have really large receipts that come in right before the quarter end or a little bit afterwards.
I think that the fourth quarter should be certainly better than the third quarter absent some other timing phenomenon just hitting.
As to 2015 I think and going out to the [indiscernible] I expect a fairly normal relationship between cash and earnings.
I think that with respect to international cash there's no real change in philosophy.
We've always said there could be some inefficiency associated with repatriation.
It's kind of a country-by-country matter and it gets fairly complex.
There's no simple answer there.
But we always just have to take that into consideration when we look at how we move money around the world or when we make determinations about how much excess we might have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe one last quick one.
What have you guys assumed for the Chevron Kitimat your guidance for next year? We really don't guide project by project.
But I can tell you that we are where we thought we would be.
We'll take our next question from Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Research Division</strong> David in I&amp;I what needs to develop for some of the larger projects to move forward that you mentioned in the second half of 2015? We're starting to see -- there is some improving -- improvement in some of the commodity markets.
At least most of them feel that they've bottomed.
And I think you've got some of the bigger mining companies that are looking at when things turn it's all about who can put it on the water.
And it's those big companies that are kind of revisiting copper iron ore a couple of other commodities but mostly those 2.
So the dialogue and the discussion in the FEED projects and the actual committing funds to get back in the game is prevalent right now.
So again I think we see some things moving as we get towards the second half of next year.
Research Division</strong> And secondly can you update us on what the bid timeline is for the Kuwait refinery project? And then as it relates to Mozambique it looks like Anadarko is having some success with a few supply deals.
Has the timing of that project moved forward at all? Well Anadarko first.
No I think we're on the normal schedule of them choosing a contractor in the first quarter of next year.
We feel really good about our position and we'll continue to track that very closely.
With regard to KNPC they delayed the bid submittals until the end of the year.
So we're probably mid-year before any of those packages are awarded mid-year 2015.
And we'll take our next question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just curious if you have seen any change at all in the competitive landscape in either the Oil &amp; Gas or the I&amp;I business.
Not really.
I mean I think -- well let me back up.
In Oil &amp; Gas I don't think I've seen a whole lot.
I mean it's a very competitive market and I'm very pleased with our ability to compete in that difficult market.
I think we're still -- I mean when you think about I&amp;I you kind of got to break it into Mining &amp; Metals and Infrastructure.
In Mining &amp; Metals for the very very large projects I mean obviously they're competitive but there's very few companies that can actually do some of that stuff.
But in Infrastructure particularly in the United States it's extremely competitive.
And we've had this dialogue before and I really don't mean this to be an arrogant statement because I really don't mean it this way but we have the ability to say no to some of the things that our competition can't say no to in terms of pricing and profit expectation because that's really the only segment that they chase and we can put people someplace else.
So we're keeping our powder dry.
We're being very diligent in the projects that we choose to chase and very diligent in how we bid them.
It is very very competitive.
But as far as delivery relative to the PPP market in the United States I don't think there's anybody better than Fluor.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And maybe can you talk about what percentage of your backlog in Oil &amp; Gas is related to oil sands directionally how it's trending over the next [indiscernible] quarters? I wouldn't go into giving you a specific percentage but it's not dramatic.
We'll take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David can you say more about the prospect list in the Middle East Asia and Mexico what end markets and project size to the extent you're comfortable fleshing those out for us? Well I think in Mexico obviously it's the Oil &amp; Gas sector to a lesser degree petrochemicals a little bit of Power.
Latin America is basically the same mix.
In the Middle East it's all over the board from Infrastructure programs to offshore Oil &amp; Gas onshore Oil &amp; Gas petrochemicals some Power.
We feel pretty good about our position in the Middle East but as I said all of those areas have some pretty robust capital plans in front of us and I think we're pretty well positioned in all areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the U.S.
can you just update us on the timing of contractor selection on Lake Charles LNG? Has that shifted around at all? And has FID moved around at all? No.
It's still next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly on the prospect list in the U.S.
for I&amp;I for the PPP projects.
Can you talk about how visibility has evolved over the past quarter? Any changes? It sounds like you might be more optimistic this quarter than the last.
But let me ask that question directly.
Well I think we had a flurry of them.
If you go back to the beginning of the year and it's kind of settled out.
I wouldn't say that we're heavily into the bidding cycle in some of these things.
But when you look at what's in front of us it's a mid-to-late next year kind of thing from a bid perspective.
So again when you think about our portfolio we just keep layering things on top.
And when we get into '16 I think it'll be back and a good contributor.
We'll take our next question from Yuri Lynk with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I just have a couple of housekeeping items.
Just on the SG&amp;A obviously a big decline I understand there's some stock-based comp in there.
But would any of that decline be due to the restructuring initiatives you put in in Oil &amp; Gas to kind of flatten the organization? I think some of it is but I think the real benefit of that is probably in the out-years.
We've really changed the game here.
And I feel good about where we are from a cost-competitive perspective.
Biggs I don't know if you want to add any color to that.
No I think that's accurate.
There's benefits in there but there's also still some costs associated with doing it as well.
So I think the big driver is the comp expense being down on the lower share price.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And Biggs while I have you how much is left on the buyback at present? How many shares are left authorized? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think it's 9 million -- 8 million or 9 million.
I'd have to look exactly.
Research Division</strong> That's close enough for me.
We'll take our next question from Sameer Rathod with Macquarie.
A couple of questions here.
What -- obviously pretty volatile oil market.
But in your mind what do oil prices have to do and how long do they have to do them before the market cools down a bit here in North America or globally? I kind of talked about that earlier.
It's all a matter of perspective.
I think that a moderating -- it's interesting.
You look at one report.
It says that oil is going to hit $70 and now quarters before it returns to $80.
And another one leads us to $100 a barrel again in the near term.
So it's somewhere in there.
I think the commodity -- those commodity markets will drive them.
But again the CapEx of our customers and their eagerness to spend that on reserve replacement and product improvements didn't wane when it was at $80 or $70 the last time and I don't expect it to this time.
But just like anything else I mean if you have a dramatic drop and I wouldn't even venture a guess as to what dramatic -- how you define dramatic would have lots of people at least taking a deep breath.
But my experience -- I've been here 30 years my experience says that that deep breath is measured in quarters not years.
Right absolutely.
I guess my next question is on the cost inflation in the Gulf.
I know you said that you feel pretty good about the craft labor component.
Are there specific specialties or anything that you're starting to see tightness in? Or have you seen a pickup in labor costs in the region? That's it for me.
Well from a big projects perspective and where we are from an execution standpoint the 2 that stand out to me right now is the Dow project PDH program as well as CPChem.
We have not seen -- well the labor costs are equal to what we thought they would be.
The only tightness I would say is in welders.
And we've beefed up our training program and actually have started a training school in the Houston area.
So we think we'll be in a pretty good place relative to new people entering the market and the skills that they're going to need to be successful.
So with things kind of moving around last year early this year from a timing perspective I think it really dampened the issue that was out in front of us.
And I think because we're kind of the first in the field on these projects we're going to have -- we're going to create a better following on -- for the out projects and be able to maintain those resources over the longer term if that makes sense.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Wittmann with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Biggs I wanted to start with you and just get some more detail on some of the items in the quarter.
And specifically you did mention that there was some closeouts in the I&amp;I segment.
I was hoping you could clarify those.
As well as we noticed there was at least some gains either from equipment sales and/or the exit from joint ventures.
I was hoping you could give us the magnitude of those and what segments if they are shown in the segment they appeared in.
I think it's a little finite to go into each and every project and talk about its effect.
The -- as I said before there's always going to be a certain amount of closeout activity there's always going to be a certain number of adjustments on projects positive and negative.
And I just try to give you some flavor for whether or not they drive the margin rates in any particular quarter relative to the norm when we give those kind of comments about a particular group being possibly influenced by project performance or closeouts.
So I don't think -- it just doesn't make sense trying to quantify.
It's really more judgmental in its nature.
And you're right as we come -- as to -- on the AMECO side as we come out of any project or come out of Afghanistan there is going to be favorable profit typically because we are able to realize gain on sales.
That's a normal phenomenon.
It happens every quarter.
And in this case coming out of Afghanistan it did have a little bit more than average effect in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just because we all love pension accounting so much I thought I'd dig into that a little bit.
The -- is this -- was this a plan that was -- are you not accepting new entrants for? Or is this a buyout of all existing pensioners in the plan? And then you mentioned that it doesn't have a cash cost.
Is that -- presumably that's because you're just shutting down the plan not actually buying folks out.
But maybe some detail on that would be helpful.
Well it's -- the answer to your first question really is both.
The plan was frozen to new entrants several years ago.
But what we're doing now is basically settling our obligations to all those participants.
They can either take a lump sum or they get an annuity in return for the settlement.
But they make those decisions out in the future after it has regulatory approval.
As to the cash aspect of it the plan is fully funded.
If you look at it from an actuarial standpoint today there is still going to be some cash costs depending upon the elections that the participants make.
Not to get even more technical about it but we don't expect that additional cash cost to be significant as we said.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then can you talk about the impact that this is going to have in your '15 guidance on a year-over-year basis in the SG&amp;A line? The -- as we said it's not really estimable at this point in time.
The only thing that we can really point to is that it will trigger the recognition of what's previously been unrecognized prior service and actuarial costs which is -- sits in OCI and that amounts to $160 million before tax.
So we know we'll be taking the charge for that.
But how much additional charge there is depends upon the final decisions made by all the participants and whether it's lump sum or annuities and a whole bunch of other variables.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But in terms of just cost savings though I guess is the angle that I was trying to [indiscernible] out there.
Savings I'm sorry.
Going forward it's an excess of $10 million a year.
Some of it as I said is we don't pay some of the administrative costs anymore in PBGC premiums.
But also importantly I think everybody expects PBGC premiums to be going up over time.
So the savings probably grow if you think of it that way because we will be avoiding those future increases.
Research Division</strong> Indeed.
Maybe last question for David.
I think you highlighted that Russia was a driver in an upstream project of your Oil &amp; Gas segment.
I'm just kind of curious as to what you're thinking how you're planning for if you're planning for the potential for U.S.
sanctions to go deeper and how that can affect that part of the business.
What's under sanctions doesn't impact us at the moment to your point.
Who knows what deeper sanctions mean? But given where we are on most things we're chasing and everything else I'm not too concerned about it at this point.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson Investment Bank.
Research Division</strong> David just a little clarity.
In terms of your backlog now within your Oil &amp; Gas segment how would you break it out between upstream and downstream work? And then on the I&amp;I side between Mining and Infrastructure Metals &amp; Mining? From a backlog standpoint I'd say upstream downstream is probably close to 50-50 when you consider that I put petrochemicals in the downstream bucket.
As far as Mining and Infrastructure that's a hard one based on where we are but it typically is 2 to 1 Mining over Infrastructure.
That's probably a fair assessment right now.
And then it grows from there when the big programs go in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's where it is now.
The Mining is still that order of magnitude.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the Global Services business smaller segment but will that ramp up with the revenue on the Oil &amp; Gas side pretty substantially? It will ramp up.
I don't know about -- how you define substantially but I think it's going to be flat for the first part of this cycle because you've got a decrease from Afghanistan hitting AMECO as an example before we really start to ramp up on the Oil &amp; Gas side.
So I think probably flat for next year but improving margin in that business.
Our Temporary Staffing business follows 1 to 1 what we do in engineering.
So yes as we ramp up on Oil &amp; Gas backlog or burning the backlog that should improve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last I guess mainly for Biggs.
In terms of the settlements on the Doe Run when does that cash flow out? As I said it's only when we get releases from the plaintiffs and so the timings going to be based upon that.
We'll take our next question from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> David I won't ask you to predict the outcome of next Tuesday's election in the U.S.
But...
I thought you were going to ask me to predict the Cowboys-Giants game.
Research Division</strong> No I just want to make sure you haven't bought your Super Bowl tickets yet.
After Monday no.
I put that on hold.
Research Division</strong> I figured as such.
But if the consensus holds and the Republicans take over the Senate is there anything from a legislative or regulatory issue that could help the velocity of some even more permitting or more opportunities for the business that you see in the United States? Comprehensive tax reform and comprehensive immigration reform.
I mean I'm telling you if we can get those 2 things right given the momentum that's behind this economy and get the regulators out of the way or at least not creating new obstacles the American economy will be on fire again.
I am so optimistic that -- well I'm not optimistic.
I'm so sure in that statement.
There are so many question marks out there whether it's the EPA situation with the Power guys whether it's the regulators on the moratorium on export of oil products.
If we can get the government to work with us and look at the job creation that's there you look at the tax revenues even at a lower rate that can be generated by a growing economy we wouldn't have -- we wouldn't be talking about the deficit problems and all the financial problems the United States have.
But with that I'll get off my soapbox.
You got another question? Research Division</strong> No I think that's fine.
Michael no kidding.
I've been very vocal about this.
As a member of the BRT and some of the other -- the National Association of Manufacturers where I'm an executive board member we got -- we can fix this but there needs to be some rational thinking in Washington.
And that is not a partisan comment because both sides of the aisle are part of the problem.
Research Division</strong> Duly noted.
Do you think you still can be helped here? I don't know.
But I think what you're seeing is the Canadians looking elsewhere and the U.S.
trying to figure it out without it.
I wouldn't predict on -- I wouldn't give odds on that one right now.
We'll take our next question from Justin Ward with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few on the Oil &amp; Gas backlog.
Obviously it's very impressive at over 2x your Q3 revenue run rate.
Can you give us a sense of how much of that $26 billion of backlog is expected to be completed in the next 12 months? Very little.
Like I said we're kind of on the beginning phases of a growth curve.
I mean you've got some projects that are finishing up like BP Whiting a few other big programs.
But we're kind of in the early innings if you will on that backlog.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I guess considering it's pretty extended over the next few years is there a sense of how much of that Oil &amp; Gas backlog is potentially at risk if oil kind of stays in this $80 range? Or are you guys expecting all that to go forward regardless? We're pretty conservative on how we take in projects in the backlog.
I'm very confident about what's in backlog.
If it were -- if oil prices were to drop significantly I would be concerned about future awards but not what's in our backlog.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one more.
This earnings season as we listen to all your Oil &amp; Gas customers' earnings calls there's a lot of discussion about expectations of kind of using the lower oil price environment to be more aggressive and getting some deflation -- some cost deflation from their supply chain.
In light of that commentary do you guys expect negotiations to become a bit more aggressive going forward if oil doesn't rebound in the next 6 months or so? And how do you guys generally prepare for that? I don't see any difference in our oil customers.
If the price was $200 a barrel they would still be as difficult as if it's at $80 a barrel.
It's never easy from a negotiation standpoint.
They're always looking for better capital efficiency.
And I think the thing this time that I feel I have confidence in is we kind of changed how we approach the market.
That solution-driven total project approach is something that the customer is interested in and we're competitive.
One of the questions earlier was about how we feel about our lump sum projects.
Well we've competed in some pretty difficult markets head to head with global competitors have won and I still feel very good about where we stand on those projects that are fixed price as well as the ones that are reimbursable.
So not really a specific answer but we can compete regardless of what the oil price is.
And our friends in the oil industry are always difficult very tough negotiators.
And we'll take our last question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just about made it.
So I guess I had 2 quick questions.
Number one David how do you feel about some of the NAFTA refineries coming back and becoming more economical? And if oil prices are around $80 $85 do you see some change in the dynamics marginally between the sort of ethane-based ones and NAFTA? That's my first question.
And the second question is David a while back you talked about self-perform.
I've seen you guys book PMC rules on some pretty big scopes.
Would you look at taking some risk on the self-perform side at this point given the craft labor issues seeming less pronounced? And would that potentially present more margin upside for you in the medium to longer term? Well controlling construction is part of our strategy whether it's through our own resources or otherwise.
But I'd point you to 2 projects in the Gulf Coast now.
One is CPChem which is lump sum turnkey utilizing fluid craft.
And the otherd be in the Dow Gulfstream project which is PDH and the cracker.
So we're already way down that road and feel very good about our position there.
But I want to make sure you understand that does not mean that we're going to direct hire every project around the world.
So you look at -- I may be putting words in your mouth.
I'm expecting that you're talking about Petronas when you talk about PMC.
We're probably not going to do direct hire in Malaysia but we will in the U.S.
we will in Canada we do in some places in the Middle East.
We obviously do in Latin America.
We obviously do in the Southern part of Africa already.
So I don't see it as a change.
I just see it as appropriate implementation of our overall construction strategy.
I feel really good about where we stand there.
Not to say that there won't be some pinch points in certain crafts in certain regions just from a skill set standpoint but we've got plans in place and training opportunities in place for people to where I think we'll stay reasonably ahead of the game.
To your first question I think it's a little too early to tell whether NAFTA creates a different wave of spending.
I think most of these customers in their project cycles are a little bit further down the path to start questioning what the feedstock's going to be.
So I think it's going to stay where it is at least in the near term.
Thank you Tahira.
With that being the last question I'll kind of prompt our operator here and thank everyone for participating in the call.
But I think as you can see in the results of our third quarter the Oil &amp; Gas group continues to perform well and also has sizable list of prospects both domestically and abroad that we're focused on.
And I'm pleased by our overall results to date considering revenue has been impacted by a lack of opportunity at least in the near term in the Mining &amp; Metals market.
But looking to 2015 I believe we're in a great position to capture additional awards across all of our end markets.
And we expect revenue to increase as our existing portfolio of Oil &amp; Gas awards transition to the construction site.
Finally I want to take a moment and take an opportunity to announce to the investment community that Ken Lockwood our Vice President of IR and Corporate Finance has elected to retire from Fluor after 34 years.
He and I are kind of the old guys in the room and I can tell you I can't thank him enough for what he's done for this company.
He's held a number of senior finance and operating roles in this company since he joined in 1980.
I'm especially grateful for the integrity professionalism and leadership that he's shown in this role over the past 10 years.
And I know you'll all want to join me in wishing him just the very best in his retirement.
And I wish him a well done.
Ken and I have been through a couple of wars together here at Fluor and I've come to rely on Ken quite a bit.
And I wish you all the -- you and your family all the best in retirement.
Succeeding Ken will be Geoff Telfer also a long-serving Fluor veteran who for the past 11 years has been the CFO of the Oil &amp; Gas segment and prior to that was the Controller for Mining as well as other industries.
He's been here as long as I've been here too.
But I want to make sure that I acknowledge Jason Landkamer and the job that he's done and how well he's done in -- as the Director of Investor Relations.
And obviously he'll continue to be a very important person in our company and will continue in the role that he's done.
I really don't have a chance in this kind of a forum to thank those guys that do this for us.
But Jason you and Ken are great folks to work with.
And again Ken I wish you all the very best.
But with that I really appreciate your interest and confidence in our company.
I think we're in a good place for a pretty good growth spurt here and I wish everyone a good day.
Thank you.
And again we appreciate your attending Fluor Corporation's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This does conclude today's conference.
And you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow management's presentation.
A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 11:00 a.m.
Eastern Time on February 24 at the following telephone number: 888-203-1112.
The pass code of 3253699 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Geoff Telfer Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Telfer.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to Fluor's fourth quarter and 2014 year-end conference call.
Today represented here from Amsterdam where we're here for the opening our new office in the Netherlands.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this morning before the market opened.
We have posted a slide presentation at our website which we will reference while making prepared remarks.
Before getting started I'd like to refer you to our safe harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on Slide 2.
During today's call and slide presentation we will be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
There is an inherent risk that actual results and experience could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-K which was filed earlier today.
During this call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in the earnings release and are posted in the Investor Relations section at our website at investor.fluor.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Geoff.
Good morning everyone and I appreciated you joining us today.
On todays call well review our fourth quarter and full-year 2014 results and discuss our outlook for 2015.
But before we move to next slide Id like to make some introductory remarks.
2014 was an important year for Fluor relative to our growth as well as our competitiveness.
Throughout 14 we continued on a deliberant purposeful path to improve clients services staying into their needs and improved capital efficiency with greater assurance relative to cost of schedule certainty on the major projects that were doing for them.
Our customers are focused on capital efficiency that selecting continued so they can continue to invest and were helping them do that.
Weve been on a three year past strength in our competitiveness and create profitable growth for our shareholders.
At the same time weve also positioned our businesses to provide clients with integrated solutions competitively offering them the breath of our knowledge capabilities and service.
As a result we believe were in a better position to day to compete and win new work regardless of the market condition.
The pipeline of projects is not diminished.
Back in June of last year I mentioned that we had pipeline of Oil &amp; Gas projects totaling some $50 billion.
Even though weve booked a number of those in the second half of 2014 a pipeline the prospects today is still roughly the same size.
Since June weve had success in booking the Fort Hills project in Canada Sasol Cracker in the Gulf Coast Pemex Tula Coker the RAPID project in Malaysia for Petronas and last week NEXUS pipeline.
To summarize 10 billion projects of the original list were awarded to us 2 billion was lost or canceled and 10 billion of new prospects have been added.
With that we feel confident that are opportunities that remains in very good shape.
The exact timing of the awards however is one uncertain and weve to use the term lump before and that will not change.
The lumps may occur over a longer period of time this time which makes a longer more sustain cycle not the end of a cycle.
In our mind there is too much use of the word headwinds.
Headwinds is seen in the marketplace so far effects the part of the old patch on which we do not depend.
More importantly there is still tailwind - sorry - more importantly there is still a tailwind for longer term growth is just blowing a bit softer and will cause a time over which the spending occurs to extend.
Low cost gas is still a positive driver and there are customer decisions that are effected by all they see current pricing in temporary.
Although there will be some delays in some cases customers will ultimately make the decision based on those long term expectations.
So with that lets look at the 2014 full-year results beginning with Slide 3.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor from continuing operations were strong at $715 million or $4.48 per diluted share which compares with $668 million or $4.06 per diluted share a year ago.
Consolidated profit for 2014 rose to $1.3 billion from $1.2 billion a year ago.
The growth in segment profit I think reflects growth as expected in Oil &amp; Gas and Power which was offset by declines in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure Government and our Global Services segments.
Segment profits were 5.9% which compares to 4.4% a year ago.
Oil &amp; Gas margins improved to 5.9% up from 3.8% a year ago.
Consolidated 2014 revenues was $21.5 billion down from $27.4 billion a year ago mainly due to significantly lower revenues in the mining and metals business segment.
Full year new awards were record $28.8 billion including $19.7 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $4.7 billion in Government $3.3 in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and $1.1 in Power.
Consolidated backlog at year end was $42.5 billion up 22% from $34.9 billion a year ago.
If you would please turn to Slide 4.
The Oil &amp; Gas segment booked 4.9 in awards as I said including the projects that I spoke off earlier in this call the Sasol Chemicals the Ethane Crackers and the Gulf Coast the Pemex Tula Refinery Coker project and with that any backlog for the Oil &amp; Gas segment was 41% from a year ago and 1.9% sequentially to end 2014 and a record $28.4.
Fourth quarter new awards in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure were $712 million including the A9 Holendrecht Diemen road project in the Netherlands.
Any backlog for the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure decline is as we continue to work off mining and metals projects.
We closed the year with backlog of $7.3 billion compared with $10.5 billion at the end of a year ago.
Turning to Slide 5; the Government group posted fourth quarter new awards of $157 million ending backlog for that segment of 2014 was $4.7 billion.
In the Power segment fourth quarter new award were $528 million including a five year contract extension to perform maintenance at the Diablo Canyon nuclear plant in California.
Ending backlog for Power in 2014 was a $2.1 billion up slightly from a year ago.
With that Ill now turn the call over Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Please turn to Slide 6 of the presentation.
Ill start by providing some addition comments on our fourth quarter performance then move to the balance sheet.
Revenue for the quarter was $5.5 billion which compares to $6.3 billion a year ago.
As expected overall revenue for the quarter was down fairly significantly year-over-year mainly due to the continued reduction and mining activity along with upstream coal bed methane gas project in Australia which is completed.
EPS from continued operations for the fourth quarter was $1.41 compared to $1.1 a year ago.
This quarters EPS includes the benefit of lower effective tax rate at 23% primarily due to the favorable resolution of tax audit issues as well as lower share count as a result of our share repurchase program.
Turning to Slide 7; corporate G&amp;A expenses for the fourth quarter were $53 million down from $65 million a year ago.
The decrease was mainly the result of lower stock price driven compensation costs.
Shifting to the balance sheet; Fluors financial condition remains very strong with cash plus non-current marketable securities totaling $2.4 billion this compares to $2.7 billion a year ago.
In 2014 the company generated $643 million in cash from operating activities and returned over $1 billion in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In November the Board of Directors authorized an increase in existing share repurchase program but 10 million shares.
We issued $500 million of debt and repurchased approximately $500 million of share in the fourth quarter.
The company plans to repurchase another $500 million of shares over the course of 2015.
Moving to Slide 8; Fluors consolidated backlog at year-end was $42.5 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog was 19% at quarter end and a mix by geography was 34% U.S.
and 66% non-U.S.
I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2015 which is on Slide 9.
As stated in our release although we continued to closely monitor the capital spending plans of our major Oil &amp; Gas clients at this point in time we believe the effects from slower sipping by our customers on our earnings per share guidance will be significantly offset by the positive effects of our share repurchase program.
However we believe the upper half of the range will still achievable has become more challenging.
We are accordingly expanding the 2015 guidance range slightly to $4.40 to $5 per diluted share.
This guidance is closely effects the previously announced termination settlement of Flour GS to find benefit pension plan later in 2015.
Our guidance for 2015 also assumes G&amp;A expense for the range of $190 to $200 million a tax rate of 33% to 35% and capital expenditures of approximately $300 million.
We dont give a quarterly guidance by looking at the first quarter 2015 versus the fourth quarter 2014 I think there are few things people to keep in mind.
This include the tax benefit we recorded in the fourth quarter from the resolution of audit issues and the benefit to compensation expense of the mark-to-market of our share based compensation.
I would now surely characterize these as unusual because theyve happened before and there are other things were similar positive or negative effect may happen again.
But having said that these are dot items we expect to occur every quarter.
We expect this years first quarter to look more or like last years first year with EPS building throughout the year.
With that operator were ready to take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And well take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
Hi Andy.
David how should we think about your backlog going forward you mentioned bumpiness and I think incentives from our side is that Oil &amp; Gas could have some pressure here on the backlog going forward.
Can you maintain your overall backlog? And then how much risk is there to project currently in backlog.
I know you guys probably noted over the Pemex the ways that they take about over the weekend.
So we often get that question sort of quality of the back on maybe you can talk about that? Yeah I think when you look at as the current backlog we feel pretty good about whats in there you know lot of the things that have been announced they are pushed a little bit to the right really the majority of thats not in our backlog at this moment.
I think as overtime weve been - weve been very conservative in what we take in and how confident we are in that going forward.
So I dont really see a lot of risk in our current backlog from a cancelation or a delay perspective.
However when you look at what is not in our backlog but we anticipated to be in our backlog as we get into the first half of the year some of it has been push to the right.
So maintaining the record backlog and improving upon that in 15 we dont have as good feel for that.
But again that really does an impact 15 it more impact 16 and 17 when you think about the burn of some of these projects.
As I said in my opening remarks Ive been in front of a lot of customers over the last couple of week particularly in the Oil &amp; Gas business.
And for the types of things that were chasing they feel pretty bullish about them going forward.
Its just a matter of win.
I think theyve got their challenges with their investor based that they are dealing with and they are taking one more look in a deep breath before they start pulling the trigger on some of these programs.
But Id also say thats okay we feel good about the fact that weve taken the efforts over the last three years to become much more competitive and in fact were already showing customer that we can help them become more capital efficient in terms of how they spend.
So I think that over the last three years weve done all the things we need to do to be very very competitive in a market.
Its like like it is right now with volatility or not.
Got it.
So I wanted to ask you in that context David about Oil &amp; Gas revenue I mean Ill let Jimmy ask you the margin question on Q4.
But like when we look at the evaluation of Oil &amp; Gas revenue and I mean it was pretty low in the quarter obviously very high margin.
I guess were concerned a bit about a slow burn here go through a lot of the dreams your company is and so why wouldnt slow burn be an issue for your guys to you know as we look at 15 is that maybe a reason why you kind of standard the range and talk about getting bit the high end? Is that the biggest reason? Well I mean I think Ill go back to what I said about backlog we feel pretty good about whats in backlog but in terms of E&amp;C were at the beginning stages there is some very very large projects where you are in the design phase you are early in the procurement phase and you are not anyway close to be in a field and construction.
So its kind of deft from a revenue burn perspective based on the timing of some of these projects not because of some delay or fear of delay.
And Andy on the high end we didnt get rid of it we said could be more challenging but as a nuance but we didnt take if off the table.
Well take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Rob.
I was just wondering for - to get a little bit of a color on the flavor of the 10 billion of prospects that did start to come into your feed list in the back half to sort of canceled out the 10 billion that you would want by upstream versus downstream as well as geography? Well I think its pretty clear that there is not a whole lot of upstream in terms of exploration and production but Ill remind you again that were really not exposed to most of the E&amp;P side of the equation.
But when you look mid-stream pipelines when you look at refinery in petrochemicals all of those are seeing new prospects.
Id say that regionally were still a lot in the United States but there is also work in Canada Middle East as well as Asia.
These are part of that in billion thats come in.
I think the interesting thing is that because of the efforts that we took around competitiveness its actually open the bigger window for us and we feel confident in being able to go after some projects with some really good customers that maybe has a different contractual approach.
But again Ill remind you what Biggs says our backlog right now is 19% fixed price.
So even moving that up into the low 20s it doesnt take us back to the max that weve seen in years gone by of 50%.
So were being very measure and very conservative and cautious.
But I think the actions that weve taken have actually opened the more of opportunity for us globally.
And then Dave I guess stepping back one of my bigger questions is since you took over you need for a liner flatter sort of organization one of the benefits we saw as that one mining rolled over you were able to roll a lot of that capacity into the Oil &amp; Gas side.
So just going forward if we are in a sustain sort of swell our Oil &amp; Gas CapEx spending environment I am just wondering if we could see possibly some - a material shortages downside just on the Oil &amp; Gas because now oil and gas and mining are sort of firing in all cylinders? You know thats a great question.
I think what weve done over the last couple of years is really protected the dispersed execution model.
And what that means is weve been able to right size the - weve right sized each of the offices and are able to more the work around.
So I think from a standpoint of a work force weve got a much more stable work force today and going forward.
So I dont see a lot of headwinds to use the terms we dont like to use less tailwind relative to population that we have.
But what this is also allowed us to do is this two self-change and were ready to grow I mean we really have the ability to turn those levels now and not have any issues relative to a big piece of the talent that we need access to.
We still have the challenge on the craft side from a skill side perspective.
Were working on that now.
So weve had the ability in this and a little bit of a slowdown to kind of do a little bit of a check and see where do we need to spend the training efforts and it allows us to focus on the craft side.
So I feel really good about where we stand from a human recourse perspective and the ability to turn that crank very quickly when things improve.
Well take our next question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
This is actually Den Shaw on for Jamie.
Hi Ben.
Andy sent me out for this one just wanted to talk about the oil and gas margins in the quarter 7.3%.
I guess you talk about that a bit and it looks like there might have some favorable closeouts there and also how should we think about that going forward just given the uncertainty in the market and as projects ramped constrictions? Den I think - go ahead sorry.
I mean do you think you can hold kind of the 5% margin in 2015? 2014 yeah I think we can hold 5% margin.
I think I go back and make two comments; one is the comment around the timing of where we are in the individual projects where the type revenue were burning is more services based.
There really werent any closeouts during the quarter that push that up but I would also say that in the changes that we have made in the organization we clearly become more profitable in terms of the returns that we are expecting from these project.
So I feel pretty comfortable in say that margin should start with the 5 going for quite sometimes within oil and gas.
I think for next year may start out the fire range but there are certain the potential for go up into the 6 range as well and then they are pulling up in that territory for the year.
Okay got it thats helpful.
And then I get some into your other businesses looks like order in Power and I&amp;I were pretty solid can you talk about the ability for you to grow backlog in those two segments throughout the year? And then Ill be back.
<br>Well I think Power has become if you can believe it more competitive.
There is a lot of people they dont have the diversity that we have that are forced to make some in my opinion some poor decisions on they expect and what they will accept.
I do believe were in a good position to grow backlog in Power over the short term and I feel good about our position regardless of the fuels chose.
When you look at the outlook been able to resign that agreement in nuclear space when you look at some of the shutdown turnaround that we do gas is obviously driving the ship.
So I feel pretty good about growth backlog in Power but I just caution that there is some really heavy competitive pressure there.
When you look at the industrial market were seeing some pretty significant new opportunities in terms of the life sciences piece of that business.
Were also seeing the manufacturing side where the fair amount of new capital expenditures they were looking at.
And again and that [ph] segment is pretty global in nature.
In the Power segment its primarily North America but obviously that gives us the rest of the world to kind of leverage in utilizing this first execution model that I spoke earlier.
Well take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Folks congratulations on the good quarter.
Thank you Tahira.
<br>And the first question is weve seen you in press release something that NEXUS you know when we track all the major pipeline projects in North America and outside of keystone Dallas is up to more than a 100-200 - 150 billion potentially that is supposed to be awarded within the next couple of years.
So I some of you might see some timing issues in your more traditional Oil &amp; Gas market do you see the opportunities on the pipeline side as then being a meaningful offset especially into second half and 2016 timeframe.
Absolutely absolutely we saw that coming years ago and actually Peter and his team when he was running E&amp;C put together a small group to focus exclusive on the major pipelines.
The keystone pipeline is so politicized we had like elsewhere but your numbers are same numbers that we look at and I think there is great opportunity in terms of pipeline replacement programs as well as the new think like NEXUS.
And I think weve formed some really good relationships with our customers in terms of how were execute those things and again look for that capital efficiency where we can find it.
So its a - I think its a good growth story as we go through the next two or three years.
Got it.
And second question is on really market share gains for yourselves you know from what I hear at tradeshows you remained very discipline in bidding and a lot of your recent gains have really come from being able to market cost savings for your clients.
As you go into an environment which is tougher does that net-net provide more opportunities for you from market share gain or is disciplined bidding going to keep it around flattish? I think there is great opportunity.
As I said I mean I think we kind of changed the game relative to how - we develop these projects with our customers and really look at how do you change the traditional approach with our customers to make sure that were getting best back for the buck.
I think there is over the years some maybe some bad is going to into these capital program where they are really happy when their facility operates at a 120% a nameplate capacity when basically all they wanted was a 100% of nameplate capacity.
And I think thats something that our customers are looking at and say we just cant afford that and luckily were head of the game were away ahead of the game in terms of being able to demonstrate how to lower those capital cost to our customer.
So regardless of the competitive situation we feel like were in the best position to give them the best asset as a best price and at the same time maintain the profitability that we expect.
So I think weve kind of changed the game here and I think thats going to board well for us for many many years to come.
Well take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Jerry.
I am wondering if you gentlemen can just talk about out of the $50 billion pipeline can you give us just a rough flavor how the regional breakout compares to your current backlog and maybe touch on how big give a prospect lists in refining specifically? You know I think its pretty much all the globe to very honest with.
I would say that in the near term and still heavily weighted towards North America but the opportunity set is very global.
I mean three or four countries in South America three of four countries in the Middle East China the non-sanctioned piece of Russia the South East Asia I mean there is just a lot of work out there thats pending.
I would say its heavier on the petrochemical side right now than anything else but its not vastly bigger than bigger than the refining opportunities or frankly some of the upstream opportunities are still make the cut relative to the decision need to be taken.
And again lot of these project are getting bigger so the gestation period is longer which kind of speak to that lumpiness that we mentioned earlier.
But as we go over the next 12 quarters I feel pretty good about solid growth in that market place over that longer period of time.
And thats Oil &amp; Gas.
When you look at Infrastructure there is growth opportunities there.
I mentioned Power and the life sciences side of our business.
There is opportunities in our Government outside of the U.S.
Federal Government.
So I think we still have a pretty good growth story.
I just think weve got a temporary cooling based on one - well two commodity prices copper and the barrel of oil.
But Id remind the audience here that it was only four-five years ago that our oil company customers are making the same capital decisions on $50 oil.
So thats not that long ago and Id remind everyone that people suggest that this scow is going to fall everyone above $100 a barrel.
So you got to look at the stuff in long term and I frankly thing that in terms of our business and in terms of the Oil &amp; Gas companies business its a good time its a buying time if you will in terms of capturing those projects that matter and I think our client relationships and our performance prove that were in the best shape to capture that.
And David a couple of years ago at the Analyst Day you spoke about building a skill set in LNG and obviously your venture you to see has gone pretty well for your folks.
What are the strategic priorities for you during this cool off period any other technology skill of I guess areas that we should look for you folks to build out or any other strategic combinations of relationships I mean consolidation that would make sense for your folks? Well I think its in a couple of areas its not as specific as LNG but were going to continue to focus on our supply chain capabilities in terms of how we buy where we buy the development of new suppliers and all of logistics to go I mean lot of these programs now are as much about logistics as they are about the technical capabilities of the engineering piece.
Were going to continue to grow direct our construction and our fabrication capabilities to service the customers where we need that help.
Again craft labor a pinch point were making sure weve got the capacity to get if off the sight into a fair beyond where youve got controlled environment which I believe increases the quality and surety of delivery.
So I feel pretty good about doing that.
I guess the other comment that I would make is this really in the cooking off period this is an opportunity to kind of look at the future and grow from there.
So the glass - listen just an opinion I mean the glass is half full it is not half empty as most people are boarding.
Well take our next question from Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Nice quarter Dave.
Hi Alex how are you? Not bad.
A couple of quick questions first in the I&amp;I segment that segment has started obviously stabilizes first the mining cycle.
Do you think margins have 6.5% 2014 is the new norm or does that include some of the benefits of project closeouts in the mining cycle? It does clearly include some of the benefits to close out of mining cycle and we had really good performance on infrastructure as well in 2014.
So those margins are higher than what we would expect going forward.
It should move back somewhere towards a norm of 4% to 5% over the next year.
Thats helpful.
And then as it relates to some of the pipeline projects like NEXUS or reverse osmosis can you talk about how Fluor is going to be controlling the critical path and how should we think about margins in the pipeline business for Fluor they are closer to the Oil &amp; Gas average or they are going to be more or like the mining segment given the quantity of materials associated with pipelines? Well its a different kind of its more of a logistics and a supply chain program than a traditional Oil &amp; Gas so Id say wed moderate more towards the mining side but not vastly.
But controlling the critical path of those projects is controlling the supply chain and assuring delivery of what you need when you need it.
And as I said weve spent a lot of time and effort on that will continue to do so.
So I feel pretty good about being able to control our own destiny on those projects.
Well take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Steve.
I found here the power profitability at 4.1 I am not sure if there were something specific in there as they drew it up but its certainly a new higher level is it a level that you think we can build off from here or should we still expect it to be up and down for a little while? Ill let Biggs talk a little bit about it but Id say that weve kind of bottomed - we bottomed out in Power and were starting to see growth in front of us.
Weve also just started some pretty large projects.
So again you are kind of in those early stages.
Biggs can you? The other thing effecting power on a segment reported basis is that on this scale the recovery weve recorded from our DEO cost share was a little bit higher in the fourth quarter so that improved segment results as well.
Okay.
And then overall the Oil &amp; Gas Dave youve talked about this a number of times on this call already but can you just maybe talk a little bit more about why you think youre not going into say a couple of year down cycle in Oil &amp; Gas what is that your customers are telling you I know they are still optimistic but why couldnt this be a couple of year downturn before pick back up you know I think kind of one of the debate of investors right now? Well I guess - thats a great question and I kind of pressed it by this before I get to answer.
Each of the oil companies have said that they are going to limit their capital spend which says that the marginal projects are probably going to get delayed further.
But look it going after a piece of the - our customers capital spend.
Weve spent a lot of time on which projects are going to go forward.
So I think when you look at why were focused on the projects that matter.
I had a conversation with one customers last week as a matter of fact they said you know we still got to add 200 000 barrels just away to tread water.
So these companies are going to continue to replace their reserved based they are going to continue to look at a value added products they are going to continue to improve their businesses.
They are just going to be a little bit more thoughtful in which projects go forwards and which projects need a little bit work.
But clearly as you can see with our new award for this quarter decisions were still being made NEXUS being a great example where in the first quarter theyve made a decision to go forward with these products based on their customer needs.
So yeah I think drilling rig count is a problem but we dont do that business.
I think some marginal field developments may take a little bit of a breath but again thats not something that our backlog is exposed to.
But at the same token low prices are really exciting to the chemical producers so as an example.
So again I think that you really cant paint Fluor or our market with the same brush as the - as this painted for the oil and gas market.
So A were choosing the right project that are going to go forward and being very very successful on.
B weve taken the effort to become much more competitive and profitable.
And C I dont think this is a long I mean its - it depends on what long-term you to find long-term.
I think that 15 is going to be a little bit of a hard year relative to order intake but it really dont damage our growth potential for 16 necessarily for 16 17 and beyond.
Well take our next question from Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys thanks for taking my questions.
David I wanted to get your perspective a little bit on the change in the executive compensation plan that was announced a couple of weeks ago.
Previously the long-term plan was based on gross margin of new awards and new award in total.
It like for 15 the emphasis has been places on EPS growth over the longer period of time as well as return on assets employed.
Given that whats the thought process around that is that just a recognition that there is going to have to be a little bit more operational focus from the board given that the award side is maybe slowing down is that a peeved point I think some perspective as to why those changes are made that would be helpful.
Disclosure loss its pretty simple.
I still believe and many of our people are still compensated on the basis of new award margin and percent margin dollar and percent margin because I think thats the best indicator of future help the future earnings of the company.
We are not going to disclose the metrics around there.
So what weve is weve changed to EPS in returns specifically to avoid disclosing something that we think is a competitive metric.
Gotcha.
So in the past youve been able to not disclose and still be incentivized on that but in the future there were some change that you didnt feel like you could still do that? Correct.
Correct.
Okay great.
You know to the - kind of the under turn of your comment weve always been focused on both growth as well as delivery.
So regardless of what we change it to our focus is still on flawless execution and certainty of cost and schedule to our customers.
Got it thats helpful.
Just for Biggs on mining you guys have given over the last years as mining has been in focused some details what that business is doing.
Can you give us now that 14 is in the books but the revenue contribution was for 14 and what your thought is on relative change just for mining as we move into 15 so we get our - what that might look like? I actually dont think that weve been disclosing what the revenues are of mining versus infrastructure.
We have from time to time reported the backlog number for what was mining and if I get it Ill give it to you before the call is over.
Its never right here in front of me.
Well outlook for that.
Well take our next question from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Partners.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys congrats in nice quarter.
Thank you.
Dave did you said whats executives of some of your large customers in Oil &amp; Gas segment over the past few weeks and they still want to move forward on projects.
I am just curious they - are they acting new any concessions if you cut your price a little bit will help us kind of move this forward or is - have that not really come up? No its come up.
I think the dialog is more around proper scope management and effective implementation supply chain things were talking about.
Weve had some customer that have asked for unit rate that kind of reductions but not significantly so.
And to be honest I believe thats a little short sighted because thats not where the real money is real money is in the supply chain and how we implement construction.
Okay and then in Oil &amp; Gas segment I am still trying to get a sense for when some of the larger projects move into the construction sales is that kind of like for this some of the largest project you are working on it like a middle 15s or early 15 or late 15? Well I mean if you about the three crackers were already in the field on all three of them in some form of fashion and because they are still in their stages.
So some of the big stuff were already - were already out there.
Typically you are going to look at from the award of the EPC youre going to look at I dont know six to nine months before you really get into the field and earnest.
So well be going into the field in some of the projects in 15 just on plan.
There is a couple that have pushed to the right just a little bit.
But I guess the point Id make is that we havent had any cancelations all weve had is delays in terms of FIDs and which quarter or which fiscal year those things go forward which speaks to the command I made about how sure we are about what we take into backlog and which project that we go after.
So were kind of hitting the field in some case now and well continue to do so as we go through the year.
Well take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hey just coming back to the opportunities that are on the petrochemical crackers so it had fixed on the market already and you noted there is - in the pipeline there is a number of additional opportunities.
So do you believe the U.S.
or I am sure if that is specifically U.S.
but can U.S.
be meaningfully more than six crackers you take on that if not where the other opportunities? Well I mean they are in North American the ones I am speaking off.
And I think there is room for more.
Okay and then - I mean the second question I noticed in your 10-K noting that the burn rate and just coming back to the question just around burn at 15 44% of your backlog will be burned in 15 that actually thats a pretty market slowdown from what we saw last year actually in place of revenue coming from backlog is down maybe 1% in 15 versus what you had in 14.
And I am sure how much you could comment on this but if you if you just take the consults number I would suggest that the booking burn in 15 would have almost more than double which I guess is seem to be tough just considering the backdrop or talking about.
Is that the right way we should be looking at it and if so I mean why would that consults never be close to being right? Let me start and ask Biggs to give his thoughts.
As I said earlier we are kind of in a situation where you are in varying states of projects and the burn on these projects is heavily weighted towards the backend ones we get to the field and because at that point youve purchased most of the equipment materials so you are getting towards the end.
On all of the three crackers that I spoke off you are still in the early early stages even though we are already in the field in some cases.<br> I give an example were in a very early stages of the cracker construction that were in a very stages in Sasol and were a little further along in CPChem.
So the burn in 14 was minimal of three those relative to the overall revenue burn.
I think the most important metric frankly is the margin burn and the fact they were improving our margin performance over the last probably eight quarters across the boards and specifically in Oil &amp; Gas.
I dont know if Biggs if you like to comment.
Ill just make couple of comments.
The 44% is down from what we would have printed last year at this time in the 10-K ever.
I think as things turned out the percentage burned off in 2014 was probably below what we expected when we printed the 10-K last year.
And if you recall 2014 we didnt have as many projects moved in the construction as soon as possible so revenues were down a little bit more there are down below what we initially expected.
And so that might not be that bigger difference between the burn rates that we actually had last year what we expect this year.
Do thing that revenues are going to grow in 2015.
It should be double digit 10% or higher.
Anyway you fit all that together I think that at the end of the day our booking burn for this year on the Oil &amp; Gas is expected to be too different from what we had in the past.
Well take our next question from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Michael.
Dave could you comment on outlook for large infrastructure projects could we anticipate maybe a billion dollar type project that you booked in 2015 others and is it certainly driven by public private and some of the financing away from step that could be coming on Washington and added clarity on the future expand? I think probably private is clearly the approach of choice in terms of North American infrastructure.
You know I wouldnt comment where there is a billion dollar in the works so I would just say there is a lot of them in the works.
But the development phases of those are significantly longer in the significantly cycle like an Oil &amp; Gas project if you will.
So I think that there is a couple of projects as I said in North America that they were focused on there is a couple that are between say 300 million and 700 million but Id say there is not anything in the current view that would book in 15 thats over a billion.
Like all of would be on the Middle East some of the budget numbers given where energy prices are from the national oil companies do you feel comfortable with some of those numbers that have put out there and are there any political issues in that region right now that could cause some pullback or shift in the mix of budge were spending in that work thats next to four [ph]? Well as you know I lived out there for a long time and stayed very close to that part of the world.
I would characterize at this way this is no different than the last three or four times Ive seen all dropped.
I told you guys were in Huston back last year I mean I remember when it hit $17 a barrel in 1997 and if we go back two years part of that over the $11 and the capital spend of our customers to maintain that reserve based stayed very robust.
So I think the NOCs are no different than IOCs in terms of what their long-term views are and their okay when you got 50-60 buck oil.
So I guess the hedge I would make is we see a significant drop which I dont anticipate in oil price he could see some change.
But at the current levels there is looking long-term I really dont see any significant change I think in the near term and their spending is.
Politically I mean you read the same papers I do I mean the places always been a little bit difficult in terms of how things go forward and I dont think thats changed today.
I will say that it doesnt worry particularly whats going on right now in terms of short term impact on business even with the stride that youve seen and the terrorist activities that are going on.
But its still a great place for us and our customers arent changing there their spending habits that this point.
This is Biggs I just underlying to that question just want to follow-up on the other question on money backlog.
The amount of the money backlog at the end of the year was around $2.5 billion.
So with we go to the next question.
Well take our next question from Anna Kaminskaya with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
My first question was regarding just going back to gas margins which is what 7% of the energy CapEx in the U.S.
and seemingly more leap availability does it enhance your margin on the existing projects that all or just given most of it is cost price doesnt really change the profile? See Anna I dont take to this fact to this cost plus changes to profile I still feel that there were in a good shape relative to us being able to deliver the margin that we anticipate that when we took it into backlog.
I dont see any change any market change there at all.
Okay so you dont think it helps your margin enhance? I dont think it will help.
Okay.
And then just if what we think about just changes in your business model you talked a lot about more fabrication capabilities and logistics investments does it change your soft market profile in the Oil &amp; Gas business just in terms cyclicality and if we do go into the downturn? No I dont think it has any impact and I am not sure what you mean my soft margins necessarily I mean clearly if were going to control the critical path of the schedule as Ive said before we got to do certain things ourselves which in some cases is margin in the past that others earned as a subcontract.
So that does help us to that degree but relative to backlog and what we are going after that approach is already been embedded in how weve taken those projects into backlog.
I would add that the fabrication assets weve added have been through joint venture so that cost is a share cost it gives us an adequate degree of control over the critical path as David stated but its gone on a fairly efficient basis for us.
And well take our last question from John Rogers with Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks for getting me.
Two different follow-ups; first of all I guess Biggs maybe in terms of cash flow last couple of years its matched with net income pretty well would we expect the same in 2015? Yeah I actually add some commentary on 2014.
We actually had about little over $200 million that we would have expected in 2014 that came in early January.
So was expecting a bigger fourth quarter then what we actually had that money came into 2015 instead and so thats obviously helpful to 2015.
Having said that I have to also note so that everybody doesnt forget about it for the first quarter that we did have a $300 million settlement payment that we made in January as well.
So if you are looking at without that the consideration youd say we should expect a very good year for 2015 it will be tempered by the fact that we made the payment.
And then David just following-up on your comments relative to controlling some of the critical path and supply chain and youve mentioned fabrication but are there other areas that you can point to now that you think have notable in significant competitive advantages in terms of controlling this chain and you enter on areas that you want to get better control of? I feel good about where we are but it goes back several years worked in Oil &amp; Gas Peter Oosterveer and his team and his team did in terms of looking at the capital efficiency of the programs.
And what I mean by capital efficiency is are we designing serial number one that has a significant associated with it and a risk or ROE developing scopes that dont have serial number one equipment in it that are trying true.
ROE designing based on design margins that are reasonable or have we allow the customers to lighter those such that steel is bigger pumps are bigger motors are bigger those kinds of things.
So the first part of it is around the physical scope is there.
I think our ability to control our own destiny in the fabrication yards to A ensure our position in shop.
B to manage the quality and the performance of the shops is critical in terms of cost and in terms of delivering those modules when and where they need to be.
I think in terms of construction and a process plant the critical path runs through the piping account.
Well on a direct hour basis thats the scope that I want to do our sales because again you are controlling your own destiny in a critical path schedule.
I think that I could go on and on and on the things that that weve done to improve our ability to perform effectively there.
So I mean there is a lot that weve done that gives us comfort that we can continue to perform for our customers and be best in class.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Ill now turn it back to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you operator and I appreciate everybody participating on our call today.
But as I said in my opening remarks we are focused on maintaining our competiveness and growing our profitability and I think what we got in front of us clearly allows us to do that.
I think both were essential for growing shareholder value and attracting the right talent and meeting and exceeding our client expectations.
Again weve done a lot of work around making sure that we are being thoughtful to our customers around the competitiveness that they need in the capital efficiency but were doing so in terms of being able to provide an integrated cost effective solution to the issues that they are dealing with.
I believing were taking and well continue to take the actions that we need to be more competitive in a pretty volatile market but again not at the expense of profitability which I believe is a true credit to our leaders and our employees.
With that I greatly appreciate your interest and confidence you have in our company and we wish everyone a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude todays teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow management's presentation.
A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The Web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 7 at the following telephone number: 888-203-1112.
The passcode of 8585895 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Geoff Telfer Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Telfer.
Corporate Finance and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Operator and welcome to Fluor's first quarter 2015 conference call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcements were released this afternoon after the market closed.
And we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we'll reference while making prepared remarks.
But before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on slide two.
During today's call and slide presentation we'll be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
However there is an inherent risk that actual results could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
During this call we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and posted in our Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Geoff.
Good afternoon and thank everyone for joining us this afternoon.
On today's call we'll review our first quarter results and discuss our outlook for the remainder of this year.
Before I move to the next slide I'd like to make some introductory remarks and provide an update on what we've seen in the market since our last call in February.
What we see today are some decision dates moving to the right as our clients review the impact of today's commodity pricing environment.
Lower oil prices have had the most effect on spending levels in oil exploration markets.
These are markets in which Fluor has very limited exposure.
The recent stress on our clients' capital budgets has created opportunities for Fluor to engage with our clients as a strategic partner.
Our focus on capital efficiency and cost and schedule certainty is resonating with them and is a true differentiator for us in the marketplace.
As we have noted in the past we have been taking cost out of our business since before the decline in the oil price last fall.
Our ability to offer truly integrated solutions to our customers enables them to move forward on projects that would otherwise be uneconomic.
This includes our global supply chain our third-gen modularization and our growing self-performed construction and fabrication capabilities.
We have already proven our capabilities in this regard.
We continue to see a robust slate of opportunities.
These projects span the globe and include upstream onshore LNG pipelines petrochemicals mining power and transportation projects.
Our list of prospects and their values have not changed.
I'm pleased to say that this opportunity set is similar to what we have consistently pursued: high-quality projects with customers that know our capabilities well.
As we've said the exact timing of the awards of these prospects is uncertain and it's causing a longer more sustained cycle rather than the end of the cycle.
Although that there are or have been some delays customers will ultimately make the decision based on the long-term expectations.
Having said that I think it's important to give some insight into some of the leading indicators of our business.
Revenue is down year-over-year.
However our margin rate is up due to more engineering content on a relative basis.
In fact and reflective of what is happening in our mix Oil &amp; Gas home office engineering hours had a strong year-over-year growth.
Now let's look at the first quarter and the results that are shown on slide three.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor: $144 million or $0.96 per diluted share which compares to $149 million and $0.92 per diluted share a year ago.
This is consistent with our previous guidance for lower earnings early in the year ramping up through the rest of 2015.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $276 million compared with $268 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Segment profit reflects growth in Oil &amp; Gas and Government partly offset by declines in our Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segments mining and metals business line.
Segment profit margins were up excuse me were 6.1% up from 5% a year ago.
Oil &amp; Gas margins were 7.4% up from 5% in the first quarter of 2014.
Margins in Oil &amp; Gas reflect increased contributions from refining project awards in 2014 along with a shift in the mix of work from lower margin construction activities to higher margin engineering services and from project closeout activities.
Consolidated revenue over the quarter was $4.5 billion down from $5.4 billion a year ago primarily due to lower revenue in mining and metals business line.
New awards for the quarter were $4.4 billion including $2.9 billion in Oil &amp; Gas and $1.4 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
Consolidated backlog at quarter-end was $41.2 billion up from $40.2 billion a year ago.
I think it's important to note that we have had no cancellations of major projects.
The only projects we are aware of coming out of backlog at this point is the Shell Carmon Creek project our partner in Mexico announced yesterday.
Our portion of that project in backlog was only $132 million.
Our financial results are summarized in the table on slide four and I'll continue my remarks on slide five.
In the first quarter the Oil &amp; Gas segment booked $2.9 billion in awards as I said including the previously announced Nexus pipeline project for Spectra in the United States and an engineering procurement fabrication and construction award from Suncor in Canada.
Ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas segment rose 8% from a year ago to $27.8 billion.
New awards for the quarter in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure: $1.4 billion primarily from mining and metals and industrial services customers.
Ending backlog for Industrial &amp; Infrastructure declined to $7.3 billion from $9.8 billion a year ago as our execution on existing projects outpaced the new award activity.
Though commodity prices remain depressed we are starting to see a few opportunities.
This includes a fairly large mining award in the first quarter and a relationship agreement we signed with Goldcorp early this month to help them with future feasibility FEED and EPC needs.
Turning to slide six revenues for Government group was $646 million a 9% increase over last year.
First quarter new awards were $74 million and an ending backlog of $4.2 billion up from $2.6 billion a year ago.
In the power segment first quarter new awards were $144 million and included a limited notice to proceed award for the Dominion Greensville combined cycle project.
We expect to book the balance of this award in early 2016.
I think it's important to note this is the third combined cycle award in as many quarters for our power business line.
Ending backlog was $1.9 billion which was comparable with a year ago.
With that now I'll turn the call over to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
I want to start by providing some additional comments on our performance for the first quarter then move to the balance sheet.
Please turn to slide seven.
David mentioned EPS for the first quarter was $0.96 compared to $0.92 a year ago.
Foreign exchange rates did not have a significant impact on earnings and only a slight effect on revenue for the quarter.
Corporate G&amp;A expenses for the first quarter were $41 million compared to $38 million a year ago.
Shifting to the balance sheet Fluor's financial condition remains strong with cash plus current and non-current marketable securities totaling $2.2 billion.
This compares to $2.6 billion a year ago.
Our continuing operations had a very strong cash generation quarter of $345 million.
In discontinued operations we used $306 million for the previously disclosed settlement agreement relating to claims against a business that the company sold in 1994.
On a combined as reported basis cash flow from operating activities was $39 million for the quarter.
The company also returned over $140 million of cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Moving to slide eight Fluor's consolidated backlog at quarter-end was $41.2 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog was 18% at quarter-end and the mix by geography was 37% U.S.
and 63% non-U.S.
I also want to point out that ending backlog was reduced by approximately $1.6 billion as a result of the strong dollar $1.5 billion of which was within the Oil &amp; Gas segment.
I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2015 which is on slide nine.
Results for the first quarter were consistent with our expectations as were our new awards for the quarter.
We are also on track with the share repurchase program previously announced.
As a result we are maintaining the 2015 guidance range of $4.40 to $5.00 per diluted share.
This guidance excludes the effects of previously announced termination and settlement of Fluor's U.S.
defined benefit pension plan which is expected in the latter part of 2015.
Our guidance also assumes G&amp;A expense in the range of $190 million to $200 million a tax rate of 33% to 35% and capital expenditures of approximately $250 million.
With that Operator we're ready to take questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good evening and congrats on a nice quarter.
I guess just a couple questions.
One David the revenues within Oil &amp; Gas over the past two quarters have been a little lower than my expectations.
Are you seeing  while you're not seeing cancellations in projects are you seeing customers lengthen the project over a longer period of time which is driving that? And is this sort of the right run rate to think about Oil &amp; Gas revenues? On the flip side the margins that we've seen both in the Oil &amp; Gas business as well as the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure business over the past I would say four quarters have certainly exceeded my expectations.
You talk about the changes in your business model.
If you look at the 10-Q and you look at the verbiage that you have around margins it sounds like you got a bump in profit because you're executing on the projects better than you would originally have thought.
Is that a result of the change in business model? And I guess going forward should we think about as a result of this is it sustainable? Do we think about maybe lower revenues but higher profitability? Thanks.
Jamie thank you for your question.
I think on the revenue side I think it's just where we are in the cycle more than anything else.
As I said we really haven't seen  we've seen no cancellations other than the $132 million we spoke of.
And I think that's an interesting project because really we're  we took the fabrication piece out of our joint venture but we're in fact still working on the project and helping the customer re-scope it as we speak.
So I think the revenue piece is a timing element.
I think we're early in the cycle if you will.
So I don't think you're going to see significant revenue growth in the near term.
Having said that I think the prospects that are on the book that we're looking at are still moving down the road for FID.
We haven't seen any cancellations as I said nor have we seen any of the major prospects that we were looking at canceled.
So I think we're in a pretty good place to have a pretty long cycle here.
And as I said in the prepared remarks I think this cycle is going to be longer than the last one but not as high in the short-term.
In terms of margin...
Sorry David.
To add on that just and I know you want to answer the margins but this question dovetails too into the change in your business model.
While maybe less projects move forward but you're positioned on the right projects do you feel do you think we should think of a higher win rate for Fluor? I guess that's tough in Oil &amp; Gas.
But a higher win rate for some of your businesses relative to what we've seen historically so that you could still see some pretty good order growth in a slow period of time.
And then your change in business model obviously dovetails into my margin question.
Thanks.
Well I think our change of business model makes us more competitive over the longer term.
And when you're more competitive and you have the value proposition that I think we have I would expect our win rate to continue to be pretty strong.
I feel really good about the relationships that we have and the fact that we're providing what the customer is asking for in terms of capital efficiency and certainty of cost and schedule.
So I think the revenue piece as I said is a short-term issue but I feel pretty good about our position in terms of growing that business over the longer term.
Now also embedded in that is the improved business model is I think providing us with a better margin profile and backlog as we've signaled before.
I think we said in terms of Oil &amp; Gas that as we go through this cycle that 6% should be somewhere in the sixes should be a good number.
I'm not backing off of that.
I think that we've really changed a little bit of the DNA here in terms of being competitive and we're matching what the customer is asking for.
So I think the efforts that we took over the last three years in terms of where we strengthened our offering the focus on cost and taking unnecessary activities out of our company I'd like to think that my timing was perfect but I think that what we've done allows us to be very competitive regardless of the commodity market position that our customers are dealing with.
So I feel pretty good about being able to perform in line with what we said before on margin in Oil &amp; Gas.
Okay.
Thanks.
Since you asked about both Oil &amp; Gas and I&amp;I's margin on Oil &amp; Gas I'd agree.
I guess I'd be a little more specific with respect to this year because of the strong start in the first quarter certainly being in a high 6% range is feasible.
And with respect to I&amp;I yes we had good performance contributing to a strong quarter from a margin rate standpoint.
And we've in fact of course had a lot of those quarters.
We don't necessarily always predict them going forward being conservative.
But generally speaking we would expect that we're in the 4% to 5% range on I&amp;I as we go forward.
Don't see a significant permanent shift there.
But certainly good performance gives us opportunity to do better than that.
All right.
Thank you.
I'll let Andy ask the backlog question.
Our next question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess first question is David as you look out for the next 18 months and you look at your portfolio of Oil &amp; Gas prospects I see a pretty sizable market for you but I would love to know how it shifted in terms of opportunity set for you versus this time last year.
From what I can see you think  Oil &amp; Gas and power I should say  there seem to be a lot of midstream projects potentially coming back now that we know you can do construction management there.
Clearly the power plant market seems to be finally picking up as the utilities are saying.
So you guys look at the near term.
Where do you feel a little more confident than you did a year back? Well I think my confidence hasn't really changed.
The opportunity set as I said really hasn't changed just the decision point has maybe shifted a quarter or so.
Some very large projects out there that we're positioned for I think very well.
And again I think our approach is something that allows us to be much more competitive than we've been in the past.
I'm really proud of our power guys.
They've done pretty good over the last two or three quarters in terms of really putting some good projects back in the backlog.
And again that industry is something that uses our entire suite of services including direct hire construction which is something we've focused on over the last little while.
So I still have the same level of optimism in terms of the opportunity set.
I just think that the timing is a little bit suspect but again I think based on the projects we've lined up and are positioned for it's not a year-over-year thing it's quarter-over-quarter and I think that term lumpiness is going to return I think pretty significantly as we go through the rest of this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And David second question is around NuScale which obviously doesn't get much of the highlights sometimes.
But NRC just indicated that they are going to come out with some important guidelines well ahead of what was expected.
I would love to get your thoughts on whether the guidelines coming out a little sooner helps you progress that? Well I think it's very positive and I would suggest that our progress of preparing for submission for design certification in 2016 has prompted them to accelerate their activities and have the people available to review and approve that submittal on a timely basis.
So I see the actions as positive but it reflects what we've asked them to do.
I feel  I'm still in the same place with NuScale with a couple of added comments one being that basically the competition has fallen away and we've got a really good technology that the power companies are seeing the value of.
And in fact the second piece of that is we continue to add people to our  power companies to our advisory group and some of them have made commitments on when they're going to deploy these things.
We're steady as she goes.
I feel good about where we are in terms of the submittal and I feel good about the NRC's ability to give us a fair review in a timely manner.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot David.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steven Fisher with UBS Financial.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steve.
David you commented in the release that bookings may be slower over the near term.
Was that directed at both Oil &amp; Gas and I&amp;I from the Q1 levels? And a month ago it sounded like you had been expecting Oil &amp; Gas backlog to be flat or potentially even up.
So I guess I'm wondering what has changed if anything because your tone sounds a little more cautious.
I'm wondering if there were specific meetings you had with customers or things you're seeing so kind of what's changed in that regard? You know just  I'm not going to talk specifics about specific projects but I think we've seen some things shift quarter over quarter which says that some of the things we thought were going to come in at the first quarter and second quarter are probably third quarter to first quarter now.
But again I've got great confidence that those programs are going to go forward and we're going to win more than our fair share.
It's just that it's just kind of pushed out.
But specifically to your question it is in the Oil &amp; Gas and mining sector.
I think we're  in the mining group we're still seeing a fair amount of study work.
You've seen a couple of big projects come in.
There's maybe one more this year of a significant size.
But again I think when you combine the position in that market with some of the change in delivery model they're much more competitive as well.
So I feel that that helps us add to our win rate not detract from.
So I still feel good about our position.
I just think that some of the FID decisions are going to move out a couple of quarters and that's why the caution in the release.
Okay.
And then Biggs you guys have had say $200 million of headwind in working capital in the last few years as the Oil &amp; Gas backlog has grown rapidly.
So with the growth there moderating now to what extent do we expect that that headwind can neutralize and maybe even become a tailwind? Well I think among other things we had a very strong first quarter from an operating cash flow standpoint.
I made a comment on that in my prepared remarks.
If you eliminate the payment and settlement of $300 million it was $345 million in cash from operations and that was in fact fueled by good working capital performance including on Oil &amp; Gas.
So we're off to a head start if you will this year in having good cash flow performance across the business including in Oil &amp; Gas.
I think that I'd say generally as we go through time we expect nothing to cause a significant change in the profile of working capital to revenue and that's true except that in this case with that $200 million extra we guided in the first quarter through collections that that could be sustained for the year and have us do better than average for the full year.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll hear next from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Your team was the top bidder on the Kuwait new refinery project for about $6 billion I think for the phases that you folks were the low bidder.
I'm wondering if you can just comment on how optimistic are you about converting that to an order with risk terms that you're comfortable with.
I guess from what we're hearing there's discussion about who's undertaking the cost inflation risks on the broader set of projects.
Can you flesh that out to the extent you're comfortable? Yeah.
We feel very good about our bid.
It's no different than the Clean Fuels project from a terms perspective than that project.
And those projects are being executed with great excellence.
The timing I think they've gone out and they've rebid on I think it's package four and five.
We expect that to be done and hopefully they've made decisions and awards by Ramadan which is I think starts around June 15.
So it could be either a second or third quarter award on the packages that have been reported.
Okay.
And then on the U.S.
power side last quarter you mentioned that the competitive landscape was pretty focused on price.
Can you just give us an update on how that's trended? And just broadly how many power projects are you folks evaluating? Or how many do you expect to move forward for the industry within the next 12 or 24 months or however you want us to think about it.
Yeah I think it's still a competitive marketplace.
But I'm comfortable with the ones that we've won.
Getting back with Duke which was really really important for us from a customer's perspective has been very positive.
And then our relationship with Dominion; I think Greensville shows that we execute for them on the projects that they need.
I mean that's a very large project that will go into backlog next year when we get to final notice to proceed.
So I think they're on a roll.
I think that we've looked at the things we need to look at around competitiveness.
I think our execution approach has sharpened relative to how we do those projects.
Those projects are typically lump sum so it's how well are we performing.
And I think we're performing very very well in the power sector.
So I'm pretty bullish on them being able to deliver on what we got in front of us but I wouldn't suggest what number of projects that are out there in front for award in the next little while.
But Greensville is a very very important win and a very large project.
Okay.
And lastly can you talk about how focused you are on the next set of U.S.
LNG projects? You've obviously had some pretty good early success here with JGC.
How active are you folks on the projects that haven't made a contractor decision yet in terms of investing your bidding resources? Feel pretty good.
I mean we've been short listed on one of them and are in conversations on several others.
Again I think the change in model is what's attracting them because we can offer a much more competitive approach than our competition.
So I feel pretty good about where we stand.
I feel good about where we stand in LNG in general and the relationship we have with JGC.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Shlisky with Global Hunter Securities.
Hi guys.
Hi.
How are you? Good.
I want to ask first about the first quarter results.
Could you tell us if there was any kind of impact from the weather on your top line or on your operating profit? And has anything been pushed into huge digits (30:41) just on that kind of a phenomenon in the first quarter? No.
There was really no weather impact in the first quarter.
There's a slight one in power.
So you might look at power's margins and see them as being a little bit lower because of weather but that was it.
Yeah.
It was very little.
Nothing more broadly.
Okay.
Great.
And secondly I just want to touch on the industrial piece of I&amp;I.
Just checking out some of the broad macro data out there if you look there is quite a bit of pickup on the industrial manufacturing construction side in the last few months.
Is there like any kind of update you can give us on the portfolio of opportunities you have to get any kind of award in the industrial and manufacturing sector? Yeah.
It's primarily in manufacturing and in life sciences.
We're having great success with some of our old line customers like Procter &amp; Gamble and Alcoa and the like.
And they're starting to spend again and because of those relationships we're in a good position to do that work.
We are seeing an uptick in some of the pharmaceutical and biotech type projects in terms of prospects and we see that market returning.
And again we've got a pretty good approach to those projects and again good relationships with those customers.
So I think over time it will continue to grow and be a good solid part of our portfolio.
Excellent.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Good evening everybody.
David any sense of given the caution on the capital spend and some FID decisions is there any other sense of just general economic activity U.S.
and abroad that's also contributing to some of the headwinds? That's a great question and I've got a question for you.
I'll ask in a minute.
I think a lot  it's interesting what the rhetoric that you're hearing from a lot of our customers in the marketplace.
And I think there's a fear in making some decisions just because of potential criticism of making the decision regardless of whether the project makes sense or not.
And that's just a fear factor that's in the marketplace.
But frankly speaking that's just a delay.
It's not a marked change in the projects that they're going to do.
We spend a lot of time in terms of selectivity of which customers we work with which projects we pursue.
And I think that's also part of why we have a pretty good win rate.
So we do our homework.
And most of the projects that are being talked about will still go forward.
I was at an event where one of the customers talked about their capital spend plan and said we've said it will be a decline of about X.
But we're going to need to wait until the end of the year to see if we actually get there.
So I think there's some people hedging their bets because of market fears.
But the fundamentals are still there.
The business models on many of these projects still make sense and they make sense at low oil prices.
So those are the ones that are that make up the majority of the list that I've spoke of in the past.
My question to you is who are the Giants going to take in the first round? Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> We need an offensive lineman badly David.
Good luck.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate it.
Thanks David.
See you.
We'll hear next from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research Partners.
Yes hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
David just maybe following on some of that commentary.
So what exactly do you think it is that's going to give the customer base the confidence to actually move forward? Is it just stability in oil and gas prices? Is it other factors? I just fear just seems like a very nebulous and kind of a  not necessarily strange reason - It is nebulous.
I think that you see oil kind of stabilize around the higher 50s or low 60s.
I think that they're waiting for one more month or one more quarter to see does it continue to stabilize at that range.
As I said many of the projects that we're pursuing the business model suggests that they're profitable projects and needed projects in terms of replacement of reserves and their production even at those rates.
I think the OPEC meeting in June is going to be a touch point.
I don't think it necessarily is the thing that loosens the decisions but it's another factor in terms of how stable the oil prices are going to be.
I mean gas prices have been obviously in the low mid $2s to mid $3s for some time now.
And we haven't seen any of the delays on some of the petrochemical things that we're doing.
So fear is a nebulous term but I think it's just a trepidation on their part of who's going to stick their neck out first with you guys in terms of making an FID decision.
Fair enough.
And maybe just following on with the bidding environment given that there are some delays in the projects being awarded; are you seeing competitors trying to get more competitive on pricing in an attempt to fill volumes? Oh I'm sure they will.
I'm sure they will.
That's the normal herd mentality I think that damages our industry.
I think what we've proven is that we focused on a better delivery model and therefore we don't have to have margins suffer because we're competitive in other ways.
But there's always somebody that's going to drop their price to ensure that they have the volumes that they want.
And frankly there's nothing I can do about that.
I'm going to focus and our people are going to focus on continuing to improve our offering and meet my expectation and your expectation in terms of creating shareholder value through enhanced margin performance.
So we're just going to stick to our knitting and let others do what they think they need to do to meet their needs.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad Dillard on for Vishal.
How are you guys? Good.
How are you? Inc.</span></strong> Good.
So just wanted to get back to a question on backlog.
So do you think backlog will remain flat or do you see some potential to grow? And how do you see that evolving on new awards? Do we see a little bit more competition coming from underpinning work or scope increases or large-scale projects? Well if you can weaken the U.S.
dollar for us we'll put that $1.6 billion back in that we took out because currency.
I think as we signaled before some of the decisions being pushed out a little bit I think does put pressure on growing backlog significantly during at least the first half of the year and maybe into the third quarter.
But I still think that we're going to stay flat.
And when you think about that that's a pretty good performance in this market that we're burning about what we're putting in and it's still staying at the $40 billion number.
So I think we're flat over the short to mid-term and then growing as we go towards the end of the year and into next year.
And I think there's significant upside as we get into 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just to jump over to a segment that's probably talked about a little bit less than the others.
On Government what do you see in that pipeline? I mean is that going to be another potential opportunity to drive a little bit more growth now that some of the oil and gas projects may be a little bit slower? Well I think it's a tale of two stories.
I mean a tale of two cities.
The first one is LOGCAP is coming down and we are looking at an extension for the number of troops that the U.S.
government is keeping there.
So there  it's not it doesn't go to zero at least through the end of 2016.
But it's hard to fill that hole when it was as big a project and big a contract as it was.
So I think it's Government's going to be modestly down but growing from that point with some of the bids that we've got outstanding and are planning for in the DOE space as well as some of the other logistical contracts in the DoD space.
We also see growth in the decommissioning in Europe.
You've seen what we've done in the U.K.
and I think that that will grow from there.
So I'm not sure we're going to have it Government back to where it was in say 2011 and 2012 but it's still a very stable growing business for us and it provides some stability to our earnings over the longer term.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good evening gentlemen.
Hey.
How are you? Pretty good.
David you mentioned earlier that engineering hours were up year-over-year.
Could you expand upon that a little bit and maybe characterize it as whether or not it's projects that are being reengineered for lower cost or if it's engineering for new opportunities? No it's engineering for new opportunities.
And it's based on just the normal flow of a project.
There's really not any reengineering going on on a lot of these projects that are in backlog.
We are reengineering some things.
As I mentioned we're working with Shell on a couple of cases to look at a different approach that meets their cost need which I think is very positive for the future.
But what we're burning in backlog is all for the most part new projects and the normal cycle that we see in terms of the EPC cycle.
And as it relates to the organizational changes is there any chance you could quantify the permanent cost reductions achieved? Well I've said in the past that it's triple low triple-digits.
It's a little over $100 million that we've taken out of cost.
That started last year so it's already significantly evident.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
We'll hear next from George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Afternoon guys.
Afternoon.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> On the petrochemical side which we haven't talked about too much yet just curious any progress on some of the international ethane cracker projects that are out there? And you guys have won a good bit of the ethane crackers that have already been let in the U.S.
Just what's your appetite for incremental exposure there? And...
Oh I think  I think we've got great appetite.
We're working on the early stages of some bids in several places around the globe including additional crackers in the United States.
So I think we've done pretty good and I look for continued growth in that segment.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Helpful color.
And then any  so we've talked about a couple of times about potentially seeing some deferrals in Oil &amp; Gas and mining projects.
Are there any bright spots within energy where we could see awards material awards pop up in the next few quarters? Or is it going to tend to be smaller more midstream type projects maybe that end fill over the next one to two quarters? I think it's going to be all over the place.
I mean we talked about one earlier which is pretty sizeable which is the new refinery in Kuwait.
So I think we're seeing some growth in the refining sector.
I think in the mid-stream transportation sector pipelines and such I think there's some opportunity there in the near term.
But then the normal big programs that we're working on will work their way towards FID this year and it could see some large awards early in 2016.
So I think it's steady as she goes in terms of our appetite and bookings.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much for the color guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi guys.
Given the good performance in the positive contract closeouts in Oil &amp; Gas and in I&amp;I I was hoping you could quantify what those were in the quarter? Yeah it's real judgement as to what you characterize as just good performance and normal mitigation and contingencies and then what to close out.
So we know that we get contributions in those things.
But you really just can't methodically and mechanically say here's what contributed solely from a closeout versus just good performance.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And they happen every quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah they've been happening a lot which is great but just can you put a minimum bound on it Biggs and say it's at least this much? Just to give us an idea.
No but I think that you know I'll put it in this context; we said that the quarter had a good margin rate on it in Oil &amp; Gas; it's 7.4%.
But we said for the full year we expected that we would easily or be in the high 6%s.
So that tells you that there's a fairly sustainable margin rate in there and we're not looking at a big differential from those contributions relative to what we expect to experience for the rest of the year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Fair enough.
So I wouldn't as I think I wouldn't go look to try to back something out when we think we're going to be able to continue to operate at a higher rate.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
And then David I was getting your thoughts on Kitimat at well which is one of the larger projects that you guys put a little bit in your backlog; don't know how much.
Just your thoughts on the likelihood of that to progress and your thoughts on timing around that potential fit.
I think it's moving at the normal pace given the challenges that were there.
Obviously the sale of the Apache piece was a very positive move but it's going to take some time to get them up to speed.
It's a little bit a slower pace than we anticipated earlier but I think it's on track.
I mean I've got great confidence that it will go forward and we'll participate.
And as you said we took some into backlog but very little in the grand scheme of things.
So I feel pretty good about it reaching a positive FID decision when Chevron and the partners are ready.
I don't expect that to happen in 2015 but I think 2016's a good  sometime in 2016 is a good mark.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for that.
Maybe a final question just on labor input costs.
I was just wondering what you're seeing there.
And just as it relates to your margin profile in your business is there enough maybe  if labor rates are coming down do you have enough fixed price contracts in your business to potentially benefit on the margin line? Your thoughts around that would be helpful.
Well I wouldn't speak to whether it benefits the margin line right now.
I think in general this slowdown has actually helped us in a lot of ways in terms of the craft resource in the United States  and I'm speaking specifically about the United States.
So some of the things that we were looking at in terms of escalation have eased but we're well on target with what estimates that we had done.
I think we still have the same concern relative to the availability of some resources.
Welders were a problem at the end of last year; they're not necessarily as much of a problem today.
On the other hand fitters are a problem right now but we're marching down that road too.
So I think we've taken the time to train that next wave of Fluor craft worker and I don't see the kind of pinch points in front of us that I did maybe six months ago.
And I think that's kind of part of why I said earlier about this cycle being a longer cycle and helping us I think longer term.
So I feel pretty good about where we are from a labor standpoint and I would just suggest that maybe some of the escalation is easing in terms of the wage rates.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
This is Biggs.
I'll go back on the prior question because I'm not sure we said it in the call right.
I certainly addressed again the Oil &amp; Gas margin expectation on Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
The add-on comment would be that we would expect moderation on I&amp;I for the margin rates to go back down to the 4% to 5% level they're traditionally at which would take into consideration not necessarily having the same level of benefit of closeouts or contingency mitigations occurring there in future quarters that we had in the first.
Go ahead Operator to the next question.
We'll hear next from Anna Kaminskaya with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I just wanted to quickly go back to Oil &amp; Gas margin more looking to 2016.
Just putting together the competitive dynamic right now in the industry and maybe any changes in your mix how do you see margin playing out more in 2016? Should we expect it to continue running at 6%? Will it get more normalized to your historical average? How should I be thinking about it? Well I think we're still looking at 2015 and I don't think we're ready to really talk about 2016 in terms of margin but the only color I would provide is we feel pretty good about our ability to perform in that market segment.
Okay.
And then on free cash flow just we heard from some of  that some of the energy customers having cash issues or shortfall on free cash flow.
Are they pushing you on any changes to your working capital terms in the contracts maybe asking you for more working capital up front? How does that change your free cash flow profile in the next couple of years? I don't think there's been any real change in our architectural approach or what we're talking about with customers.
As I said we expect the relationships between working capital and revenue to be pretty consistent over time with the exception that what I already talked about.
We've had the improvement this year from collections in the first quarter and we expect to be able to sustain that improvement over the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from John Rogers with D.
A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
David sorry to just go back to margins once more.
In terms of the new delivery model and you mentioned the cost savings that you've taken out of the system and I don't know if it was you or Biggs said $100 million.
At some point does that just get passed through to the customer? And I just want to understand how sustainable this advantage you have you think it is or what's next to keep that advantage in place? And then secondly is has it changed the risk profile for you on these projects? No absolutely not.
We haven't changed the risk profile at all and the majority of the savings impact overhead.
But I feel really good about our ability to sustain this benefit over the longer term.
Biggs I don't know if you have any color.
I agree.
I would make the same point you did that this is mostly about overhead reductions and so not discretely a part of the pricing model.
Okay.
Great.
And thank you.
We'll hear next from Robert Connors with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey gentlemen.
I'll try and keep this brief because I have a 10:00 curfew to stay at here in Baltimore but I was just wondering if you guys were seeing on the North American chemical side you sort of mentioned on this that you know recently I've heard of one project moved to the right while one or two more have actually sort of come forward and may expand and that includes maybe BASF and possibly Sasol expanding on its projects.
So I just wanted to get some more color around what you're seeing on North American chemicals.
Well I think BASF obviously is in front of us.
We're pursuing very hard.
Sasol is on schedule with what they were saying and I'm not sure what you mean about expansion there but that project is on target.
So I think that you're going to just see steady growth.
I mean Franklin's coming back.
We're looking at that.
And then I think there's some of the derivative plants that people like BASF and others are doing on the back of this.
I think it's just onesies and twosies as we continue to go down the line but I think it's a robust market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then correct me if I'm wrong but the TCO reload was that already awarded? And then do you have any just color on Mozambique? Well TCO the next phase has yet to reach FID so it's not in backlog.
That's one I expect to go towards FID as we get to the end of this year.
Mozambique? I feel pretty good about our position on Mozambique.
The timing of award is anybody's guess but I think that it could still be this year.
But I think it'll be if it's awarded this year I still think it's a pretty slow roll in terms of getting started in any significant positive impact to earnings in 2015 or early 2016.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Justin Ward with Wells Fargo.
Hey.
Good evening guys.
Evening.
I'm just wondering kind of a strategic question as you guys are seeing the benefits of the integrated solution making Fluor more competitive and driving the margins I'm wondering if you're  if that's increasing your appetite to maybe accelerate that shift towards the self-perform and fabrication by acquiring some assets here maybe at a depressed price would that be a consideration at some point or...? Well I think with regard to the model I think one of things that it's done is it's given us great comfort in our ability to execute under any circumstance contractually and certainly under any circumstance given to us by the commodity market falls or whatever and the challenges there.
So that's point number one.
Point number two is we're going to always continue to look at how we strengthen that.
And the problem with depressed pricing is sellers typically won't sell it at a depressed price so what we're looking at is where we do need the assets in order to continue to grow? Are those assets something that fit within our strategy and are those assets something that from a monetary standpoint fits the fits our business model? We've got a few things that we're looking at but they're add-ons to existing strategies.
And I'll just add I mean we're still talking about niche type things; that is what we've looked at over time and what we continue to look at not transformative type things.
And to reinforce we won't buy something just because it's cheap.
It's got to fit a strategic need so there's no real change in terms of how we look at things in this market from what we have looked at.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Telfer at this time I will turn the call back  conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I'll take that Operator.
And thank you for helping us here today and I appreciate everybody's participation on the call.
As I said in my opening remarks the actions we took over the last few years to transform to an integrated solutions company is paying off.
Our focus on capital efficiency and cost and schedule certainty is absolutely resonating with our customers.
We believe we're well-positioned to win a number of opportunities that we're pursuing.
I believe we have taken and will continue to take actions to improve our competitiveness and profitability and I think that's a true credit to our leaders and employees.
With that we really greatly appreciate your interest in our company as well as the confidence you have in Fluor.
I hope everyone has a good day.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
We're about to begin.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow management's presentation.
A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on August the 5th at the following telephone number 888-203-1112.
The passcode of 9523230 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Geoff Telfer Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Telfer.
Corporate Finance and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Matt and welcome to Fluor's second quarter 2015 teleconference.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcements was released this afternoon after market closed.
And we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we'll reference while making prepared remarks.
But before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on slide two.
During today's call and slide presentation we'll be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
However there is an inherent risk that actual results could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
During today's call we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
Now I'd turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Geoff.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us here today.
Before we get into specifics on our second quarter performance I'd like to share a bit about our perspective on the markets we serve and the actions we're taking continue to take strengthen our performance and strengthen our competitiveness.
At the time of our April earnings call commodity prices were recovering and expectations of a gradually improving global economy gave us confidence that we could achieve the financial goals for strong growth that we set out last October.
Since then we've seen a shift in the supply and demand curves leading to lower pricing especially on crude oil and some specific metals.
This is a result of excess supply compounded by slow economic growth and uncertainty in multiple markets.
Even with these challenges we continued to record oil and gas backlog near all-time highs and are well-positioned for robust slate of opportunities.
In fact today we received an award letter for two packages for the new KNPC al-Zour refinery and we expect to book our portion of this $5.8 billion project into backlog during the third quarter.
While I'm particularly pleased with the performance and results in oil and gas weakness in our non-oil and gas end markets persist.
In mining and metals ongoing weakness in iron core and copper are now pushing opportunities that we considered 2015 prospects into 2016.
With regard to infrastructure competition continues to be aggressive and a lack of long-term funding solutions is limiting the near-term opportunities.
In power we continued to win our fair share of U.S.
combined cycle build out even in a highly competitive environment.
And we are optimistic about the improved regulatory uncertainty that it will drive a number of opportunities over the next several years.
Overall there is a slower pace of project awards.
The end result is a relatively flat backlog in the aggregate as opposed to the growth we had planned for in October.
While it's not what anyone wants we will manage through this.
That's why the path we've been on for the last three years to improve Fluor's competitiveness and why an improved offering of truly integrated solutions is so important.
This is an environment we have prepared for.
The measures we have taken  have been taken have been well-planned and well executed.
We made fundamental shifts in our construction and fabrication offerings to drive profitable growth for our company and to improve control and delivery at the project level.
Of equal importance we've aligned our businesses leadership and employees to offer broader more cost-effective array of Fluor assets and capabilities to our customers.
We will continue to look for opportunities to enhance the offerings we provide to our customers and provide profitable growth for Fluor.
I'm pleased to say that this approach has helped us change over time.
As a result we're not faced with the need to take extreme measures driven by economic uncertainty which I believe can be disruptive.
This afternoon we announced the strategic joint venture with Sacyr in Spain.
This new JV will  allows us to expand geographically into select regions with a proven construction partner.
Historically we've been successful in expanding work through joint ventures including our highly productive JV in Mexico and expect to do more in the future.
In many cases this requires investment on our part however with Sacyr this was achieved by selling 50% of our interest in our Spanish-based business.
Now let's look at the second quarter results and begin on slide three.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor for continuing operations were $149 million or $1 a share  diluted share.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $282 million.
Segment profit represents a 21% increase in Oil &amp; Gas results compared to a year ago offset by the decline in our Industrial &amp; Infrastructure Power and Global Services segments.
Segment profits  segment profit margins were 5.9% level with our 6% a year ago.
With Oil &amp; Gas margins at 7.4% up from 5.9% in the second quarter 2014 and consistent with the results from last quarter.
Margins in Oil &amp; Gas reflect favorable performance on projects progressing towards completion and an increase in higher margin engineering and design activities.
Revenues for the quarter were $4.8 billion.
New awards for the quarter were $4.3 billion including $2.7 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $726 million in Government and $607 million in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure.
Consolidated backlog at quarter-end improved to $41.6 billion compared to the $41.2 billion last year.
We have had no cancellations on major projects this quarter and only a minimal impact on backlog due to foreign exchange fluctuations.
Our financial results are summarized on the table in slide four and I'll continue my remarks on slide five.
In the second quarter the Oil &amp; Gas segment booked $2.7 billion in new awards as I mentioned including additional refining work in Europe and a new production and chemical programs in Canada.
Ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas segment rose 18% from a year ago to $28.7 billion.
New awards for the quarter in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure were $607 million primarily related to new work for the industrial services customer.
Ending backlog for Industrial &amp; Infrastructure declined to $6.7 billion from $9.1 billion a year ago as we continue to work off the existing mining projects.
Commodity prices remain a challenge for this business line and we are seeing some prospects that were slated as I said for 2015 award pushed into 2016.
On the Infrastructure side although a long-term federal funding solution continues to be abated (8:33) I'm pleased to report that a Flour led JV won the Bergstrom Expressway Project in Austin Texas.
We expect to book this project in the third quarter as well.
Turning to slide six revenue for the Government group was $607 million similar to the results a year ago.
Second quarter new awards were $726 million and included another task order award for services we provide under the LOGCAP IV contract in Afghanistan.
Ending backlog was $4.3 billion down from $5.2 billion a year ago.
In the Power segment second quarter awards were $253 million and included a new maintenance services contract for Luminant's Comanche Peak nuclear facility in Texas.
Ending backlog is $1.9 billion which was comparable to $1.7 billion a year ago.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Thanks David.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to start by providing some additional comments on our performance for the second quarter then move to the balance sheet.
Please turn to slide seven.
As David mentioned EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter was $1 compared to $1.02 a year ago.
Foreign exchange rates were slight negative on earnings for the quarter.
Corporate G&amp;A expense for the second quarter was $48 million compared to $57 million a year ago.
This year-over-year decline was primarily due to lower stock-based compensation expense.
Shifting to the balance sheet Fluor's financial condition remains strong with cash plus current and non-current marketable securities totaling $2.1 billion.
This compares to $2.7 billion a year ago.
Cash flow from operations was $165 million for the quarter.
During the quarter the company returned over $134 million in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Over the last three quarters we have repurchased $700 million of shares.
We remain on track to complete our $1 billion share repurchase program by the end of this year.
Moving to slide 8 Fluor's consolidated backlog at quarter end was $41.6 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog was 16% at quarter end and a mix by geography was 34% U.S.
and 66% non-U.S.
Before we take questions I'll conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for the remainder of 2015 which is on slide 9.
We continue to win a number of front-end engineering awards particularly in Oil &amp; Gas.
However relatively low new awards this year and the deferral of investment decisions due to volatile commodity prices is placing pressure on our expected results for 2015.
After taking into consideration these factors the company is reducing its 2015 guidance range of $4.50 to $5 per diluted share to $4.05 to $4.35 per diluted share.
The range presumes completion of our announced $1 billion share repurchase program by end of the year an effective tax rate of 33% to 35% G&amp;A for the full year of $180 million to $190 million and the closing of our sale of 50% of Fluor Spain.
The guidance excludes the effects of previously announced termination and settlement of Fluor's U.S.
defined benefit pension plan which is expected in the latter part of 2015.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
Thank you.
At this time we'll take our first question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good evening.
Good evening.
I guess a couple questions.
One the Oil &amp; Gas revenues we've seen declines over the past couple of quarters; I think you're expecting sort of more flattish.
If you could just comment on what's going on there; is it the projects that are in backlog the burn rate is lower than what you would have thought? Is it push outs in  what's in backlog? Just if you could give more color there in how we think about that for the remaining half of the year? The second question relates to profitability in Oil &amp; Gas and Industrial &amp; Infrastructure which on the positive continues to surprise on the upside.
David I think last quarter you said high 6% for Oil &amp; Gas; it's  at third quarter we're at 7%.
And I think you also said I&amp;I margins from 4% to 5% where again you guys are consistently above that range.
So I'm wondering if we structurally should think about profits at higher levels than you've been guiding to.
And then sorry my last question is for you David with regards to  obviously you don't want to talk about 2016 right now but I think the market is embedding or assumes that numbers are going to be down  EPS will be down next year which I agree just given the push outs we're seeing in backlog.
But the question is we can make our own assumptions on the market is there anything you're considering or that you can do internally to help the EPS growth or actions that you can take whether it's some restructuring on the G&amp;A line whether it's we should think about you guys continuing to be disciplined buying back your stock or perhaps there's other markets you're more optimistic on that could help the top-line? Thanks.
Those are lots of questions.
I know.
I know.
Sorry.
I think in terms of revenue I think it's just the time of where we are in those projects.
We've got a fair amount of projects that are just going to the field where you're going to see the revenues I think tick up in terms of Oil &amp; Gas in the second half of the year and as we go into 2016 so it's basically a timing thing.
As I said we have had no cancellations.
It's just where we are in the cycle of these projects.
So I would just  I wouldn't read anything into that; I think you'll see Oil &amp; Gas revenues improve.
In terms of margin and I'm going to answer part of the last question first.
We've spent the last three years really looking at our competitiveness.
And as I've mentioned we took over $100 million out of our overhead last year in terms of becoming more competitive and we did it in a very measured way and we didn't take a restructuring charge.
We just did these things as a normal course of our business which puts us I think in a much better position to weather this storm in terms of the other businesses but also be more competitive in the marketplace.
And I think we're seeing that.
Embedded in that higher level of competitiveness is I think just a difference in our profit expectations.
So yes I kind of gave you the high 6%s and we're obviously over the 7%.
I think that going forward you're going to see us continue to perform very well in that segment.
I think in terms of Industrial &amp; Infrastructure we've had some completions and again it's just operating off of a smaller base and you don't have the huge mining projects going through with the CFM burning as well and obviously that's one way that the margins in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure stay at a much higher level than the traditional number when you've got mining blowing through there.
So I think we're in a great position in terms of being able to deliver profitability.
Unfortunately it's on a much smaller base in the non-oil and gas pieces of our business.
I'm really proud of what we've done in terms of kind of rightsizing this company and preparing for these types of situations.
It's just that as I said the mining projects and some of the other things that are pushed out have created a little bit of headwind in terms of where we thought we would be.
But I am very pleased with what we've done in terms of structure.
I am very pleased with the way we're performing.
And the fact that we have no cancellations I think also kind of speaks to the conservatism that we have in taking projects in and the things we need to see before we put those things into backlog.
So I think all-in-all we kind of changed the company to where we should deliver a higher level of profitability going forward.
I'm not going to suggest a percent specific in terms of Oil &amp; Gas or anything else but I don't think you'll see us return to those low-margin days of five or so years ago.
We've really been disciplined in how we're going forward and we'll continue to do so.
And I know I'm pushing the limit here but any  just broadly 2016  my question there in terms of repurchase or any actions that you can take to help the bottom line or  I mean it doesn't sound there's much more you can do on the restructuring side because that's been done? That's been done Jamie.
I wouldn't really want to get into 2016.
I think it's clear that if our new awards in the other businesses are down in 2015 the earnings in 2016 will be challenged.
But I think from a margin perspective and being good stewards of that money and making sure we're doing the rights things and being balanced and not making silly decisions that we tend to see in this type of a market circumstance you'll continue to see us perform.
All right.
Thanks so much.
I'll get back in queue.
This time we'll take a question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Good afternoon and good evening.
Hi Jerry.
David I wonder if you could just update us on your views on the ethylene cycle.
How many more crackers do you think move forward this year and next year it feels like we're having one wave after another at least coming to the forefront how many more do you think move forward and how many of them are you folks bidding on? Well we're focused on all of them.
When you look at that next wave I think there's a good three or four of them in that next wave and then I think there is a wave after that.
I think the interesting thing is we're in the middle of building three of them right now and it's going to take some time for us to finish those so the gas starts to get used.
But I see our petrochemical customers being very bullish on CapEx but again they're in the same markets that the oil and gas guys are and in some cases it's the same companies and they're curtailing capital.
So I think there's a little bit of a timing element in when these things come to market that maybe we didn't see a year ago.
But I think there is that end as well as the derivative chemical plants that we're focused on are also things that we're obviously keen to win.
So I think it's a good market for us and I think we're well positioned to get hopefully more than our fair share.
And David in Power you mentioned now that the uncertainty has gone projects are moving forward.
Can you just give us a sense of your views on the cadence how many projects do you think move forward within the next 12 months to 24 months just flesh out you visibility for us if you could? There is numerous gas-fired combined cycle plants being planned and we're focused on a lot of them.
We've got three that we're working on right now in varying stages two with Duke and one with Dominion that the final notice to procedure on that project is not even in backlog yet.
So I would argue that there is 10 to 20 on the books that will happen over the next probably five years or at least they'll go to limited notice to proceed in the next five years.
So I think we've got kind of a good solid earnings stream ahead of us in terms of gas plants and the replacement of some of the coal fleet that's been planned.
When you look at the power margin there  power production margin it still hasn't gotten to the point where it's putting pressure on these companies to put more capacity online.
So I think we got to see some macro things happen in terms of the economy and people starting to build other things to use up the power margin to where they have to do that.
So it's kind of replacing coal and it's also capacity and the capacity side isn't supporting a rapid advance of those projects.
Okay.
And lastly any opportunities on the wind and solar side as a result of that increased visibility too I know you folks have a pretty good market share when those projects move forward? Yeah.
We're looking at potential solar there's not a whole lot of wind under bid right now and I think the reality of the cost curves on wind is kind of taking the wind out of their sails so to speak but  sorry for that pun.
That was good.
I think the solar side is continuing to do quite well we're kind of finishing up on that first wave now.
Okay.
Thank you.
At this time we'll move to Steven Fisher with UBS.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hello.
Clearly you still have some chunky Oil &amp; Gas projects coming in like KNPC.
I mean what do you see as the trajectory of Oil &amp; Gas backlog over the next several quarters? I mean it sounds like it  probably we should be expecting it to come down if your revenue burn is going to be picking up but I guess I'll start with that and then what's the kind of visibility you have to when it could start to tick back up again? I think it could tick back up by the end of the year I wouldn't say demonstrably so but certainly there is things that we see right now that could provide an increase in backlog year-over-year.
I think as I mentioned you're going to see revenues increase but I don't think it's going to increase as fast as maybe you think in terms of depleting backlog.
KNPC's big project there're several other things there there's big programs that will be  will go to FID this year.
Obviously going to backlog either late this year early next year that could actually grow backlog in Oil &amp; Gas.
Is Tengizchevroil one of the key prospects that you're still kind of including in that list to move the needle for this year? Yeah that's in there for that period of time I wouldn't say when they're going to go to FID because that's really up to our customer.
Okay.
And then maybe broadening up Jerry's question how would you characterize the activity and prospects in the Gulf Coast at this point relative to other parts of the world? Is there still more confidence in this region given sort of the feedstock dynamics or is it just sort of broad customer caution everywhere? I think it's broad caution everywhere.
I think the programs and plans that for the Gulf Coast that have been planned some of them have been pushed to the right.
But they've been pushed to the right because of the macroeconomic stuff not because of a cooling on the region specifically.
That's a great place for us to work.
We've got a great workforce access to some of the best and brightest on the craft side.
And with those projects under construction right now we're actually growing our capability quite well which bodes well for us longer-term in other industries when we got that kind of labor force available to us.
The Texas Louisiana specifically are two really great states to  for people to invest in economically.
So I don't see anything slowing.
The attitude around that region is just that broad fear factor that's out there in terms of capital deployment.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
At this time we will move to Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research Partners.
Yes.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Hey Biggs just a question about the backlog when I just do the natural math taking previous quarters backlog I add the orders that you recognize take out the revenue; suggest that the Q2 balance sheet should be about $900 million to a $1 billion less than what you reported.
And I think it's specifically in Oil &amp; Gas was there any scope changes in the quarter that we should be aware of or what might be the other drivers to that? Yeah you need to  and we laid out in the 10-Q when we do the roll forwards on backlog you can see what adjustments to backlog are.
Though still on the difference between new awards and what's burned but there's numbers of adjustments that almost always are.
So it's probably just scope changes that don't show up in orders? Typically yeah.
Typically there's scope changes that roll in there.
Okay.
Got it.
And just secondly clarification just on the projects you announced that you discussed will be booked in Q3 the al-Zour and Bergstrom the $5.8 billion is that the total scope for the consortium or is that your take? No.
That's total consortium.
And your take would be how much? Between 35% and 40%.
Okay.
And same thing with the Texas project? Yes we're I think 50% of that.
Got you.
If I could just ask one more question just there's been more discussion about oil staying lower for longer rather than  a more meaningful recovery that had been hoped for previously.
Have you kind of stressed your backlog if that is in fact the case do you see any vulnerabilities to projects that are currently in backlog or projects that are in the pipeline? None in backlog.
Going forward I think this goes back to some discussion that we've had in previous calls and in our Investor Day stuff.
We're pretty  we're pretty focused on the projects that have a high degree of go.
They'll actually be approved in an FID and that  those things are going to be based on the economics of low oil prices or high oil prices.
So when I look at what's in front of us I think if it shifts further to the right it's more the macro fear factor in terms of capital deployment not because these projects that we're chasing don't  no longer  they no longer meet the financial hurdles in their models.
So we feel pretty good about the pipeline that's in front of us and certainly there is nothing in our backlog that we really have a fear in being cancelled.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Moving forward we'll hear from Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Thank you.
Good evening David.
Hi Alex.
Could you give us a quick update on NuScale and then also talk a little bit about pipeline opportunities? I know you're working on one in Mexico but anything else that's developing in the market of pipelining? Yeah.
I mean we're also working on one in Canada as well and I think that's going to be a pretty good market going forward.
There are some really big pipelines around the globe and we've got a group that's specifically focused on that.
So we see that as part of that growth story in Oil &amp; Gas.
I'm sorry the first question? NuScale just give us an operational and financial update.
Yeah.
We're on target for our submission of our design certification in mid to late 2016.
We've got an Investor Day coming up in October  August in August sorry.
In August that I hope you folks can go to.
I know some people have visited there.
We've had I would say very good interaction with our advisory group which is made up of many of our customers.
There are several customers that are looking at deploying our technology as it works through the system.
We've had conversations at least early conversations with some people that have expressed interest in investing in NuScale and we're also looking at opportunities of deploying it outside the United States.
So the interest is growing we're on target for what we've done.
The spin rate is about the same this year as last year and will be again next year as we close in on submission of the design certification.
So we're on target is the way I would categorize it.
That's great.
Thank you.
I would just add that the spin rate is up this year but it is covered significantly by the DOE so when you look at it on a net basis it's not as much of an increase.
At this time we'll take a question from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Good evening everybody.
Hey Michael.
David could you  I don't know if you want to parse it this way but as you readjust your expectations for the second half of the year and into 2016 do you think it's more global macro or more oil price? I think it's more global macro.
I mean oil price is  you can argue that you would have seen a significant drop in our Oil &amp; Gas backlog and you wouldn't have seen the new awards that we've been able to produce in Oil &amp; Gas and we wouldn't have won KNPC if the Oil &amp; Gas guys were just sitting on their hands doing nothing.
They're still looking at the projects that make good economic sense at the pricing that they have.
So you would  intuitively you would think that you would see a significant drop in oil and gas that we're frankly not seeing and as my previous comment earlier on the call we anticipate to see backlog actually grow over the next three quarters to four quarters in Oil &amp; Gas.
So it's more the commodity prices in mining it's some of the timing of some of the other capital around global services a large piece of that is AMECO which is very heavily  our equipment company is very heavily involved in the mining sector.
So it's more the global macro that we're dealing with than one specific market and specifically the oil and gas market.
I appreciate that.
And I guess a follow-up are you  you seem to be obviously have been pleased with the cost restructuring and the selling efforts of your company.
But is there prospect for the non-energy side of your business to position itself to better participate when the global macro gets to feel better maybe in 2016 and beyond and any strategies on to do that? Absolutely.
We've right-sized I think the organization.
We've made some changes in personnel.
We've streamlined decision making such that I think we're in a much better position to more rapidly address those opportunities when they come along.
We don't pull-in our  we don't pull-in when we get to a bad market like this.
This is when our clients need us and this is when we step-up our efforts with our customers that are in challenging situations.
So I feel good about where we are and where we will be when those things change but I'm  it's interesting Michael I've been through these cycles before and I actually see this cycle like I've seen the others.
This is actually an opportunity that we're going to seize and it's in terms of how we deal with our customers and bettering those relationships.
It's sharpening our approach and delivery.
It's adding to our repertoire of skill set.
So I'm always been a glass is half-full guy and that kind of leads some of my thinking but I look at this as a buying opportunity as opposed to some dark cloud.
I appreciate it.
Thank you David.
Next question will be from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Hi folks.
Tahira how are you? Inc.</span></strong> I'm fine thank you.
Got a bit of interference going on sorry.
The first question is if you look at your infrastructure project pipeline and you've seen quite a few large nice awards over there as well.
To the extent there's an infrastructure bill that does get approved David does that really serve as a swing factor on  within your Industrial &amp; Infrastructure business; could it really help into the next year? Absolutely.
Well I don't know about into the next year but it absolutely helps our Infrastructure business.
It all depends on the timing.
I think a Highway Bill is way overdue.
The question I think that's in front of everybody is who is going to pay for it and I think that debate is going to take some time to shake out.
But clearly that would really help us in terms of the number of projects that are out there and the timing of those would be helpful.
So again just like my  part of my answer to Michael we're prepared and are actually actively in discussion with several of the entities that'll be first movers if in fact there's some funding available for those programs.
So we feel good about where we are from a position standpoint but that's one of those markets where it's been highly competitive and I think people have had to do some things in terms of pricing that simply we're not willing to do.
So I feel good about our position.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it David.
And second question is BP had a pretty interesting call the other day and it seemed to concur with what you're saying in terms of the economics of projects at $60.
It seems that they're pretty close to really pulling the trigger even to some extent.
But within that it seems that there's a lot of deflation on average for each project.
It seems a lot of that is not really tied to what you all do on the services side.
But we'd love to get an idea from you to the extent you can as you're helping all these companies out with the supply chain clearly the scope of these projects might be coming down.
So how should we think about the optics of backlog? Does that  could you see backlog sort of slide down but the dollar profitability within that hold out for yourselves? I think there is  I think projects  any time you're in this kind of cycle projects get cheaper due to supply chain and I think we'll see some of that in the near-term but I don't see that impacting how that flows in our books other than the revenue side.
It doesn't impact really the profitability per se.
I think the maturity of our supply chain and what we've done over the last few years I believe puts us in a better position to be more competitive as well as deliver lower cost projects to our customers.
So again I go back to what we've been focused on in the last three years is actually fortuitous in terms of how we will be able to face the marketplace.
But I think that many of these projects when the shocks of the $60 oil or $50 oil is over they start to look at well I think we can get these things done cheaper and that's kind of what we're focused on trying to be able provide to our customers.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
Operator are there any more question? At this time we'll take a question from Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
I was wondering if the $40 million gain that was mentioned in the Q for the sale of the Spanish joint venture is included in the guidance range  in the updated guidance range or if that's excluded.
I had it in my comments that the sale of Fluor Spain is considered in the guidance range.
The  it's maybe a little more complex than just taking the $40 million number as an EBIT number and that's really tax affected of course but as we disclosed in the Q the final gain is subject to a determination of the fair value of the business and there really that's the fair value of the joint venture going forward.
So there is some work to be done there and the appraisal has to take place before we probably determine what that gain is.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Is that tax rate closer to like a 20% numbers or is that more done at the corporate average tax rate? Well that's a good question that's one of the things that has to be nailed down between now and when we finally record it.
The easy thing to do is tax affected at the U.S.
statutory rate but that's not necessarily going to be the final answer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just given the moving pieces inside of I&amp;I backlog Biggs I was hoping you could give us just an update about that.
How much of the I&amp;I backlog is still mining versus transportation versus the other work that you do in there just to give us some sense about with the mining market being what it is.
How long that could be an overhang? Sure the mining number is around $1.4 billion.
So that is way down from what it was a couple of years ago reflective of how much that has fallen off and back to David's point earlier that that's one of the reasons why margin rate in the business is in that 5% to 6% range for the year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
And then David you started your comments at the beginning of the call talking about that you're seeing kind of oversupply that's affecting price.
Could you maybe just talk a little bit more about those price and maybe even the risk terms that are in the marketplace today maybe on jobs that you've decided to not be as fully aggressive as others have been.
And what the potential downside would be if you chase those.
I think given the market conditions I think this is something that long-term shareholders should be focused on.
And like to hear your perspective on that? Yeah.
I mean my earlier comments were more around the commodity supply and demand.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Price issues that we're dealing with and the eagerness or lack thereof of our customers actually take some of these projects to FID in the short-term.
I think that just like in other times we see some people that are not as diverse as us make decisions to take risks or to take projects at pricing that is lower than we're interested at doing that's a norm in this industry.
I wouldn't say that I've seen it in as be as predatory as I have seen it in past cycles.
So hopefully there's a little bit more discipline in the industry in terms of getting the kind of return you should expect to the services that we provide our customers.
But going any deeper than that I don't think is something I'd like to do.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right I'll leave it there.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
At this time we'll take a question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is Chad Dillard on for Vishal.
Just wanted to dig more into the Power margins.
They are a bit negative for this quarter and just want to see what you have in your backlog and whether you can drive it back positive and if not do you have any latitude to take some cost out of the business to right size that? Well you really need to look at the Power margins with and without NuScale the NuScale expenses are what creates the fluctuation there.
Without those the power margins are positive and we would expect them to stay positive.
Of course they are a little bit lower than historical.
For Power we think over time they'll come back up as projects mature as new projects come online but for right now they're going to run a little bit lower than traditional.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
And just moving to the Government side of the business can you just talk about what you're seeing in your pipeline and how many opportunities that you expect to have on bid and what the timing is for that? Yeah.
They've been very active on the construction side in terms of the DOE and DOD.
As we said in previous calls I mean coming off of LOGCAP highs is a big hole to fill.
But I think that organization has done a really good job of kind of changing the model and adding more of the DOE type projects in.
I think the strategic petroleum reserve is probably the best example of that as well as Paducah that we've taken in over the last two quarters.
So I think we're in a kind of a steady state kind of a position right now.
We are one of the  we continue to be one of the key suppliers to the U.S.
military in several places around the globe.
Obviously Afghanistan and the troop head count that has been discussed by the U.S.
is staying higher than was at least initially discussed and that bodes well for us.
They're also kind of moving things around which is also additional work for us.
So I feel pretty good about where they are in terms of being able to provide a pretty steady state business going forward and unfortunately when we have very positive spikes it's because of some strife in the world.
I don't think the strife in the world is going to be reduced over the next little while and I think that we're there to support the U.S.
and other country militaries when they deploy.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Yuri Lynk with Canaccord Genuity has the next question.
Hi.
Good evening guys.
Good evening.
David you booked some Canadian work in the quarter in Oil &amp; Gas which I thought was interesting given kind of ground zero for the oil price impact.
How would you characterize activity in Canada right now in terms of prospects and pricing.
And specifically could you give us an update on Kitimat and your activity there? First on Kitimat we're continuing to help Chevron with the scoping and early design some of the early works is continuing but clearly that project's full FID is sometime out but we continue to work and support that customer.
And I think when you listen to the Chevron calls they're still bullish on the project and I guess their new partner is in and participating with us as well.
So it's a slow go but it's still moving along as we anticipated.
You know Canada you're right it's kind of ground zero but what we're seeing is some of the heavy crude upgrading still going forward and actually using the existing capacities that have been built.
I think in term of new developments on oil sands it's probably not going to happen in the near term but it's still  there's a still big robust refining and petrochemical market there that will continue to serve us.
But I think Canada I mean in general as you said it's kind of ground zero from an oil play standpoint and we don't see a whole lot of head room in term of new capacity oil sands capacity there in the near term.
Okay.
That's great color.
Maybe if I could sneak another one in on the government section segment obviously great job rebuilding the backlog there.
The margins have been a little bit weaker than I was expecting but we did see last year a nice tick up in the back half of the year.
So number one is there some seasonality to those margins such that we might see some sequential improvement.
And secondly just is the overall margin profile of backlog that much lower than what we would have had in the past? Thanks.
Okay.
On the  it's Biggs.
On the first question of Government margins the Afghanistan work was a higher margin business that got converted to a fixed rate basis several quarters back and that reduced some of the fluctuation that had occurred over time in that business.
The other thing is it created some fluctuation in that businesses.
There is always a set of issues to be resolved with respect to regulatory matters on the Government side and we've been very successful with respect to those but those create blips in time that we have to talk about from quarter-to-quarter periodically.
From a going forward basis then yes the margin rates right now I think over the near-term are going to be lower than what they have been on average historically because the Afghanistan work has come out.
And then it varies a lot based upon the mix and whether or not we have joint ventures whether we're sharing the profit whether it's offline through for us or not so there's it ends up being a little bit complex to dive into not just to say generally expecting to be at the kind of level you're seeing in that 2% to 3% range here over the near-term and then we'll see after that as some of the new projects come in and others mature.
Certainly construction work as we expand that effort could produce higher margins going forward.
Thanks.
Was there (52:17) I didn't answer? Mr.
Lynk did you have anything further? No.
Thank you.
We'll take a question from Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Good evening and thank you for taking my question.
My first question is really on the petrochemical side of the business that's within Oil &amp; Gas can you help us size that within the segment and really discuss how the mix has changed in the recent quarters as far as revenues and backlog? Well I mean the three  obviously the three biggest things we've got are the big ethylene complexes and two of them are well underway on the construction side and one of them is really just starting.
So those are big long projects and so when you think about the revenue flow really the big revenue hasn't started to flow.
We're finishing PDH at Dow and we're starting with the cracker layer.
CP Chem is well underway and SASOL is just kind of starting.
So we've got  those are three very very large projects that are really in the early stages of the revenue burn and obviously the profitability that goes with that.
CP Chem has been converted to lump sum so it'll have a little bit of a back end loading in terms of profitability just because it's lump sum project.
So I think that when you look at those projects and you say that next wave that I mentioned before that'll probably start to occur in terms of feed work next year.
You can see that we've kind of got a long journey ahead of us relative to those projects and the earnings power of those over the longer term.
Embedded in those projects are also some derivative programs that are there in PDHs.
There's several of those kind of projects that we're pursuing but it's a pretty robust list of petrochemicals that we're pursuing and again we're either doing the feed on some of them or are in a good pretty good position to take those projects.
And collectively approximately what portion of the overall Oil &amp; Gas segment do they represent? I'd say there's  I don't know that exactly but I think the petrochemical side is about 20%  right around 20%.
Okay.
That's helpful.
One more question on the Power side revenues grew impressively and last quarter there was a decline in revenues in Power.
For the year in 2015 could we see growth in the Power segment and what needs to happen for that? Well we're kind of in the normal  like I mentioned on the  on two of the gas fired power plants we're really only going to the field now.
So that you're in the early stages of those projects but you'll start to see them grow over the next few quarters and clearly they're lump sum projects as well.
So you'll see a little backend loading in terms of dropping profit to the bottom line on those.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
At this time we'll move to Anna Kaminskaya with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow-up question on outlook; in terms of buyback what was in the previous guidance versus current guidance has anything changed? Now we're still on  if I understand your question right we're still on the path to complete the $1 billion share repurchase program that we announced the fourth quarter of last year.
There is about $300 million left on that to be executed over the third quarter and fourth quarter.
Okay.
So it's the same as in the old outlook correct? That's correct.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then I'm not sure if you'll provide more details on kind of how much of those big upstream projects in Australia and Canada contributed to your Oil &amp; Gas P&amp;L but when do they rollover completely? When are they completely out of your Oil &amp; Gas business? And I'm not sure if you'll be able to kind of provide any more color.
Well the big Oil &amp; Gas stuff in Australia is out of backlog and...
Okay.
...and the stuff we're working on in Canada is all refining and upgrading stuff so  and it's not a real significant piece of backlog but it's not at risk.
I was talking more from the profitability; I think you highlighted that they contributed from  just more profitability standpoint that they're coming to completion and you had some of the kind of risk reversal and that contributed to your profitability in Oil &amp; Gas segment or  unless I read it incorrectly? I think you read that incorrectly.
And specifically there is nothing in there relative to Canada or Australia that would impact that.
Okay.
So I'm afraid you misread that.
Okay.
And then I mean I guess lastly my question on kind of buyback versus acquisition have you changed any sort of view on how to allocate cash? Do you have any more appetite particularly with some of the I don't know LNG projects not going through into your backlog about buying kind of LNG backlog versus organically growing the business in the future? Well I think buying backlog is a bad business.
I think that what we're going to focus on is the same sort of capital deployment strategy that we've communicated before.
I think that with the markets the way they are there probably are some opportunities that we're going to look at in terms of adding to the capabilities we've already mentioned in terms of construction fabrication and supply chain.
So we'll be looking at some things as we go forward but without a really good eye towards that we're going to continue to provide a robust dividend to our shareholders and we're going to continue to buy back shares as cash is available to us  excess cash is available to us.
Yes.
So the bottom line is no change.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our last question today will be from Robert Connors with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Yeah I just wanted to touch base on has there been any sort of update on possibly the ExxonMobil refinery coming back to the market given that refinery profits are still strong here if you've heard anything there and then also two projects that seemed to continue to move forward but stay below the radar a little bit are the Alaska LNG project as well as Shell's Pennsylvania cracker just wondering what you're hearing from those? Well I prefer not to talk about those I will say that we stay pretty close to ExxonMobil and their capital and they've got I think some robust plans ahead of them that we'll participate in and as I've said in a previous answer I think there's a next wave of petrochemical facilities and I think we're participating in most of those as well in some form or fashion.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I'm trying to just think on the potential buyback if it does carry forward into 2016 and one of the things that could keep you guys from buying back more stock is possibly like the working capital build particularly on the Oil &amp; Gas side as you guys moved more to field on some of this North America work.
So just wondering Biggs do you still expect to stay fairly working capital neutral or could we see a little bit of a build in 2016? Well it's  we're not giving guidance on earnings on 2016 it's even harder to talk about timing of cash flows on work that might be won in the future but generally speaking we don't see any big shifts occurring in the relationship of working capital with revenue which is what I've been saying for a few quarters and I think it's still true.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer portion.
At this time I will turn things back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and also thank you to all the participants for being with us today.
As I said while I am pleased with what our Oil &amp; Gas group has done from a performance standpoint I'm disappointed in the current end market realities of the non-oil and gas markets that we serve.
The challenges these groups are experiencing especially in mining and metals as an example is a reflection of the commodity pricing and the related capital spending in those markets.
In prior calls we mentioned the actions that we took last year to strengthen our competitiveness and I am really pleased with that because this include reducing our overhead refining the business model we provide to our customers providing a much more capital efficient solution for our customers and strengthening our cash discipline throughout the company.
We've made those changes proactively last year and I think they positioned us extremely well for future growth.
With that I greatly appreciate your interest in our company and your confidence that you show in Fluor.
So thank you very much and good day.
And again this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the management's presentation.
A replay of today's conference will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on the Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 5 at the following telephone number 888-203-1112 with the passcode of 356250 being required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Geoff Telfer Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Telfer.
Corporate Finance and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Whitney and welcome to Fluor's third quarter 2015 conference call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcements was released this afternoon after market closed and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we will reference while making prepared remarks.
But before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on slide two.
During today's call and slide presentation we'll be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
However there is an inherent risk that actual results could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-Q which was filed earlier today.
During today's call we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Geoff.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Before we get to talking about the results for the quarter and our expectations for next year I want to take a moment and share our perspectives on the markets we serve and what we're doing to strengthen our performance and our competitiveness.
Since our last call the global economy continues to be sluggish and commodity prices remain depressed.
While commodity prices are showing signs of stability there does not appear to be any near-term catalyst to drive prices up to where they were just a year-and-a-half ago.
Lower commodity prices have impacted our customers' cash flow and therefore their ability to fund projects at the same pace.
Nonetheless we do expect customers to move forward with high-quality or otherwise necessary projects especially those replacing depleting or deteriorating assets.
For example oil and gas customers need to add production to replace their declining production base as well as to meet the new regulatory demands.
Utility customers need to build new power plants to replace retiring generation capacity.
Infrastructure customers need to build new roads replacing aging infrastructure.
And the one area which we think is the most challenged to move forward at a rapid pace is LNG where the spread between gas and other energy sources has narrowed significantly and there's a lot of new supply coming online.
Things are never as bad as the meaning would suggest nor as good as we would hope.
Our focus is on the things we can control.
Strategically our company remains committed to the direction we set in 2011.
We are focused on our transformation from an EPCM services company to integrated solutions company.
This transition allows us to provide lower cost solutions to our customers improve our margins and expand our markets.
Our latest investment in fabrication in the COOEC Fluor Heavy Industries joint venture with its state-of-the-art fabrication yard in Zhuhai China gives us large critical modular capability and opens up new markets in which Fluor could not previously participate.
The Sacyr Fluor JV on the surface may appear to be just a divestment but what it really does is allow both companies to pursue work neither of us were able to pursue on our own.
Again this opens up new markets we did not previously have access to.
So now let's move and look at the third quarter results beginning on slide three.
Net earnings attributable to Fluor from continuing operations were $176 million or $1.21 per diluted share.
Consolidated segment profit for the quarter was $240 million.
Segment profit reflects a modest increase in Oil &amp; Gas results compared to a year ago offset by lower results from Industrial &amp; Infrastructure Power and Global Services segments.
Segment profit margin was 5.5%.
Total segment profit margins declined as a result of a cost increase on a gas-fired power facility in Virginia that is nearing completion.
Oil &amp; Gas margins were 7.9% up from 5.5% in the third quarter of 2014 and up from 7.4% last quarter.
Margin in Oil &amp; Gas reflects an increase in higher margin engineering and design activities lower overhead costs as a result of our efforts over the last year-and-a-half and implementations of our integrated solutions execution model.
Revenue for the quarter was $4.4 billion down from $5.4 billion a year ago mainly due to lower contributions from the early cycle Oil &amp; Gas work and the lack of Infrastructure opportunities in our addressable market.
New awards for the quarter were $5.3 billion including $3.6 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $926 million in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure $534 million in Power and $277 in Government.
Consolidated backlog at quarter end was $41.7 billion which is basically flat with last quarter.
We have had no cancellations of projects this quarter but backlog was reduced by approximately $1.1 billion as a result of foreign exchange fluctuations.
Our financial results are summarized on the table on slide four and I'll continue my remarks on slide five.
In the third quarter the Oil &amp; Gas segment booked $3.6 billion in new awards including our portion of the KNPC Al-Zour refinery project and a refinery reconfiguration program in the United States.
Ending backlog for Oil &amp; Gas segment was $29.1 billion up 9% from $26.6 billion a year ago.
New awards for the quarter in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure were $926 million including the Bergstrom Expressway project in Austin Texas.
Ending backlog for the Industrial &amp; Infrastructure segment was $6.6 billion compared with $8.6 billion a year ago as we continue to work off the existing mining projects.
Turning to slide six.
Revenue in Government was $661 million up from $615 million a year ago.
Third quarter new awards were $227 million and ending backlog was $3.8 billion compared with $5.2 billion a year ago.
In the Power segment third quarter new awards were $534 million and included the full notice to proceed on a gas-fired power plant in Florida.
Ending backlog was $2.2 billion which compares to $1.8 billion a year ago.
Now before I move on I want to take a moment and comment on the announcement that took place Tuesday evening regarding our discussions to support Westinghouse in completing the two nuclear projects.
Right now we're working on a professional services agreement to assist Westinghouse in assessing the construction status of Plant Vogtle's Unit 3 and Unit 4 in Georgia and two additional units at V.C.
Summer Nuclear Station in South Carolina.
During this assessment period the final terms and conditions will be worked out for a construction-only subcontract under Westinghouse's leadership for both projects.
While we don't typically give out specific details I want to point out that any future contract will be on a cost-reimbursable basis and there will be no liability for pre-existing conditions associated with the prior construction.
We are pleased to be working for Westinghouse on these projects and we'll work closely with the talent that is already on both sites.
With that I'll now turn it over to Biggs for some of the details on operating performance and the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thanks David.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to start by providing some additional comments on our performance for the third quarter then move to the balance sheet.
Please turn to slide seven.
As David mentioned EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter was $1.21 compared to $1.15 a year ago.
Earnings include $0.04 per diluted share for pension expenses not included in our guidance.
Excluding this expense earnings would be $1.25 per share.
In the third quarter the company created a new joint venture with Sacyr Industrial by selling 50% of its ownership interest in the Spanish subsidiary.
This resulted in a pre-tax gain of $68 million or $0.30 per diluted share after-tax.
This was approximately $28 million more than what we saw as a minimum pre-tax gain we would book.
In terms of how this translates into our outlook this additional gain was offset by the unusually large cost increase on a gas-fired power facility in Brunswick County Virginia.
Corporate G&amp;A expense for the third quarter was $35 million comparable with a year ago.
Both periods reflect lower comp expense due to a decline in share price.
NuScale expenses were up in the quarter and are expected to be $80 million to $90 million for this year and next year as we move toward Design Certification submittal to the NRC.
The design certification is critical to being first to market and in attracting new investors.
We expect net NuScale expenses to decline after submitting the DCA in 2016.
Shifting to the balance sheet Fluor's financial condition remains strong with cash plus current and non-current marketable securities totaling $2.3 billion.
This compares to $2.4 billion a year ago.
Cash flow from operations was $366 million for the quarter and $570 million year-to-date.
Year-to-date number is particularly strong considering we pay $312 million in the first quarter for non-recurring legal settlements related to Doe Run.
Improvements in cash generation were mainly driven by favorable changes to working capital in Oil &amp; Gas.
During the quarter the company returned over $176 million in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Over the last four quarters we have repurchased $855 million worth of shares.
We remain on track to complete our $1 billion share repurchase program by the end of this year.
Moving to slide eight.
Fluor's consolidated backlog at quarter end was $41.7 billion.
The percentage of fixed price contracts in our overall backlog was 24% at quarter end and the mix by geography was 34% U.S.
and 66% non-U.S.
Before we take questions I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2015 and 2016 which is on slide nine.
We are narrowing our 2015 guidance from continuing operations to a range of $4.05 to $4.20 per diluted share from $4.05 to $4.35 per diluted share excluding all pension settlement related charges.
For 2016 we are establishing our initial EPS guidance at a range of $3.50 to $4 per diluted share.
Our range for 2016 reflects continued weakness in commodity prices.
Guidance for 2016 assumes that G&amp;A expense will be in a range of $190 million to $200 million NuScale expenses of $80 million to $90 million and an effective tax rate of 33% to 35%.
Guidance also assumes capital expenditures will be approximately $300 million.
And comparing 2016 to 2015 I would point to two things which have affected 2015 results.
The Fluor Spain gain and the effect of stock price decline on G&amp;A expense.
If you adjust for these the midpoint of our 2015 and 2016 guidance is fairly in line.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Jerry Revich.
Good afternoon.
Hey Jerry.
Afternoon.
I'm wondering David now that we're closer to hopefully the joint venture CNOOC closing can you just talk about over what time period do you think that business could be a meaningful earnings contributor to you? And just step us through the plan as soon as you folks close in terms of looking for opportunities to fill up the fabrication yard? You're talking about the fabrication yard? Yeah the China fabrication yard.
Okay.
Yeah Zhuhai.
Yeah we're on track to finish the JV hopefully by year end if not into early next year.
I saw some of the slides that are available to us now in terms of opportunity set that is now available that was not available to us before we made this investment.
And even though you've got lower cash flow from our customers in the Oil &amp; Gas segment they're still continuing to spend money.
We believe that right now the yard is full with COOEC work and we expect that to continue.
And then as we expand folding some of the other programs and projects that were there.
So we feel pretty good that it's going to be profitable and a good earner for us as part of 2016 and then grow from there.
As I've said in the past I've seen these cycles before and these oil companies still have to put reserves on their books.
So I think that that's well set to accomplish that but I would caution you that that yard is not just for offshore.
The majority of the work that we're looking at right now is in fact modules for onshore projects primarily in Oil &amp; Gas but in other markets as well.
So 2016 we should see a ramp-up and then 2017 2018 on a steady state of growth.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah I would just add it will be gradual.
Let's say we get the JV form here end of the year early next year.
And the yard is certainly being utilized today but the capacity is going to grow over time.
So the dollar investments that we're making and that COOEC is making in that yard will flow into an increased capacity over time.
And so it's going to start out at the lower level and then grow.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then in I&amp;I I think you folks are looking at expanding the scope of that business to international markets outside of the U.S.
to a greater extend.
I'm wondering if you just can flesh out for us when do you think that part of the portfolio it can become a significant contributor to your business? And just lay out for us how we should be thinking about the action plan there? Well I'd break it into three pieces.
Clearly one of the biggest contributors over the last few years has been mining and you've seen the commodity pricing that's there.
We are starting to see some as I've said in the last quarter we continue to see FEED and study work in the mining sector come in but again that's reasonably small in terms of revenue but it gives us good insight into what's being planned.
I really don't anticipate seeing anything of a meaningful nature in mining until late 2016 early 2017.
The second piece of that is Infrastructure.
Obviously we won another project here in Texas and we're pleased with that.
But I'd point you to what we've been able to achieve in Germany and the Netherlands lately.
So when you think about the Infrastructure business I see it growing into Western Europe Eastern Europe and then on an opportunistic basis in the Middle East.
We're doing the Saudi Landbridge program which is the heavy freight rail in Saudi Arabia.
We're doing the Bay Crossing in Qatar.
So that business I think has got a good footprint globally and is poised to grow.
The final piece of that is Industrial Services.
And we're seeing really good opportunities in the life sciences and biotech market and that is traditionally three or four places: Singapore Ireland Puerto Rico and then some other places around the globe.
But it's kind of conglomerated in those places.
We've got a great history of being able to perform there.
In addition in Industrial Services we're starting to re-engage with some old line customers like Procter &amp; Gamble and DuPont and some others and we're seeing some partnership style opportunities growing with those traditional customers that fall within that business line.
Okay.
Thank you.
And lastly congratulations on the Westinghouse win.
I'm wondering David if you're willing to give us a framework for how should we think about the Fluor scope of revenue on that project compared to the backlog that CB&amp;I reported.
Just some high level of context there would be great.
It's premature for us to say right now.
We're in the process of supporting Westinghouse in an assessment of those programs.
That'll take 30 days to 45 days.
So really all we're doing is really supporting Westinghouse right now.
I will say that there's great talent on both of those job sites and hopefully if Westinghouse sees fit then we'll be able to work on most of the construction there.
But I'd remind you we won't be doing all of the construction.
Westinghouse will still have responsibility for a fair amount of that as well as the fabricated equipment.
So we're pleased that Westinghouse has the faith in us and we'll have to wait and see.
But hopefully towards the end of December we'll know and we'll announce whenever that  when that information is available.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi good afternoon.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just for clarification the guidance for 2016 does not include anything from Vogtle and SCANA at this point is that correct? When we build the plan we considered all of our prospects in terms of the 2016 plan.
Okay.
So there is a piece assumed in the 2016 numbers? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Well we're just not being discrete on different pieces and how they add up or contribute.
There can be upside from a lot of projects but everything gets considered in terms of its probability and its size and its potential range as we go into this.
And then as we get a little further into the year or into the next year we'll get more defined with it.
Okay.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> But it's premature to really give any more clarity than that with respect to how this was considered.
Okay.
But it's fair to say it was part of the planning process? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Well it's certainly a part of the process as we went into the last few weeks yes.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then separately can you talk a little bit more about the cost overrun you briefly mentioned in the presentation about the plant in Virginia that I think you said offset the gain in the quarter? A little bit more detail on that and how far along are you on the project? How buttoned-down is it with the charge you've taken? We are nearing completion of that project.
We feel pretty good about our estimates to go.
It's been a challenging project.
I mean it's in a geographic area that's had two significantly bad winters which contributed to that as well as some technical challenges in terms of the machines that are being installed.
And we feel good about where we are in our current estimates.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah in terms of  we don't quantify specific projects but I think you have a pretty indicative kind of statement in my comments in that we on Sacyr on the Spain JV we recorded $68 million versus the minimum of $40 million.
So that's $28 million more recorded than what we anticipated.
And that was substantially offset by this cost increase on New Brunswick.
So that gives you a pretty good feel for what the size of it was when you're trying to figure out what the relative impact is of both.
Got it.
Just real quickly the NuScale costs  you provided that in the outlook $80 million to $90 million.
Okay.
I'm good to go.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Good evening.
I guess my first question the revenue in Oil &amp; Gas the decline was much greater than what I expected and the declines have accelerated you didn't mean (23:48) throughout the year.
So I guess David I mean is that a big concern? Is it just customers slowing the pace of the projects that you have? And as I look to 2016 what's the risk that projects continue to get lengthened or pushed out or how to think about revenue for Oil &amp; Gas in 2016? And I guess the other side of it is while the revenues have been disappointing the margins obviously have well surpassed I think most people's expectations but I'm also assuming you're not going to tell me assume a 7% margin in 2016.
So when I look to 2016 do you feel more comfortable with the revenue pace or the margin pace because just the revenue declines I guess have just been somewhat concerning.
And then I have a follow-up after that.
Let me start and then I'll ask Biggs to maybe give a little color to this.
And I'll start kind of at a high level.
When you look at the oil price drop clearly all the oil companies kind of took a deep breath and evaluated all of their capital plans.
They looked at and prioritized those.
And then in the ones that met that priority gladly they were most of the ones that we're doing they're going back and looking is the design proper is the cost estimate as sharp given current market conditions because some of these things were estimated a year ago.
And boards are asking for more information.
So that's what's kind of causing the delay.
The good part is and it kind of gets to the second part of your question is as I've stated previously we have changed the way we're doing work.
And in doing so we're able to provide these customers that are looking for more capital efficiency exactly that.
And I'd kind of contrast some proof there.
If you go back a year ago or a year and a half ago we were awarded the Clean Fuels program in Kuwait which was a competitive lump sum turnkey project against open competition.
And we won.
And in fact we are buying the majority of the equipment and materials not our Korean partners.
That same approach led us to the award that's in this quarter on the two packages for the fourth refinery the Al-Zour refinery.
So that's proof that the new approach that we're using that integrated model that we're using is giving us confidence that it opens the aperture to the lens that we can go chase.
And at the same time it's satisfying the customers' need for capital efficiency.
So I think over the longer term we'll be hard to beat and in doing so when we win these things we're not doing it on a price basis we're doing it on a value basis and we're going to make more money.
So I think margins in Oil &amp; Gas will be higher than the last cycle but I wouldn't tell you it's going to be 7% or 6% or anything else but over the longer term it's going to be much better.
Now when I think about what's in front of us in 2016 within Oil &amp; Gas as we said we've had no cancellations and for the projects that have been kind of delayed for that deep breath or whatever you want to call it are starting to get to the point where FID is imminent.
So I'm not looking for 2016 to be a big growth year but I do believe the combination of some of these projects moving forward and our ability to win them and make more money puts us in a unique position as you get to late 2016 early 2017 and beyond.
So based on...
So it's fair to say  sorry David just because I think you were sort of getting into how you're thinking about the award pace too for Oil &amp; Gas.
So as you think about Oil &amp; Gas I don't even know that it would be in the second half.
It's probably more late 2016 at this point before you'd start to see any acceleration in order pace and awards is probably the proper way to think about it? I think it's going to be lumpy Jamie.
I think if some decisions that have been pushed come to fruition in the first quarter first quarter could be big.
If they don't it pushes to second quarter.
So I just think it's going to be kind of a lumpy year and there's some pretty big programs in there.
Okay.
And then Biggs I don't know if you had any other question then I had one more question.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> I think David gave you a very thorough description of what's happening from a broad standpoint and looking at it over time.
Just to drill into the quarter a little bit the revenues being down relative to what we thought.
To be real specific on that there were no project delays or deferrals in the quarter which affected that number.
Obviously the order book was good.
The bottom line was good.
Performance was good.
I would say more we just missed a little bit in our estimating in terms of how it was going to play out in the quarter and that there's really no underlying message or concern anybody should have from that circumstance.
So we would expect the fourth quarter to be relatively similar in terms of Oil &amp; Gas revenues to the third quarter and then over the course of next year to grow.
So we do expect growth in Oil &amp; Gas revenues next year on the strength of the orders that we've already recorded and we do expect to come in.
And then sorry one last follow-up just relative to Westinghouse and congratulations.
And I know you said in the prepared remarks or actually in the prepared remarks and in response to a question.
It's a cost plus.
There's no risk to you in terms of pre-existing cost issues whatever.
But David I just look at this I don't understand I mean it seems like a big win for CBI a big win for you.
I don't understand Westinghouse but they seem like the loser there.
But I mean as you think about this project is there any risk to Fluor in terms of future  I mean where would the risk be to Fluor if any? I don't think there's any more risk to Fluor than any other project that we do.
There's obviously reputational risk because we've got to perform but we did not and will not accept the same commercial terms that was in the previous contract.
So...
But it's completely cost  is there any portions of the project that are fixed price or is it completely  I'm sorry is there anything fixed price in there? Is it largely...
Once we get to that stage we expect a fully reimbursable contract.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Rygiel with FBR.
On the Westinghouse topic any other opportunities outside of Georgia and South Carolina that you're also in discussions with? And understanding the NuScale  or excuse me Westinghouse has its own SMR Technology any opportunity to kind of marry up NuScale with Westinghouse? It's premature to say.
We think we've got the best SMR Technology that's close to be submitted for Design Certification.
So we feel very confident about this.
But I wouldn't get too far out over my skis on the Westinghouse relationship.
They're a great partner a great company and we work well with them.
They've got a situation on two projects that they need our support and assistance.
And because of that long-term relationship we're willing to provide that.
But we need to make sure we get through this assessment period.
They're running the show and we'll support them any way we can.
Fair enough.
And David you commented that LNG is most challenged.
How should we view that statement as it relates to LNG project work and backlog right now? I think it's a slow roll like it's been.
I think you've got several new projects coming online with some pieces of difficulty in Asia.
You've got the ones in the States one or two that are under construction that will go forward.
But getting the rest of them to actually a sanctioned FID and actually turning dirt are going to be problematic I think as I said because of that energy spread that exists and in particular with the low oil price most of these are sponsored by significant oil and gas companies where their cash flow is impinged by the price and maybe their priorities are a little bit different.
I think when we look at what's in backlog and what's coming clearly the refining sector is alive and well.
You look at their financials and they are doing quite well.
You look at petrochemicals and the wave of ethylene crackers that we have underway again we have three of them underway right now and we expect another wave of five to six to move closer to an FID as we go through 2016.
So it's not good for the upstream guys right now but the other parts of those companies are doing quite well.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steven.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Hi Steven.
Related to Brunswick County David you've been very careful on setting up the organization to manage these fixed-price projects to minimize risk.
And I do remember that this plan had been competitively bid.
Just trying to get comfortable with this fixed price mix that's in the rest of the backlog now.
Is there something different about the way the organization was structured for Brunswick County versus the other gas-fired power plants you have in backlog and you're going to put in there? And then more broadly the other Oil &amp; Gas projects now you have in backlog on fixed price basis? Just trying to be comfortable with the fixed price mix now.
Yeah that's a great question.
I would put the Brunswick situation in three categories and none of which do I believe are embedded in how we've done any of the others.
And in fact we've learned from this and have implemented some of those learnings as we bid some of these other programs.
It falls into three categories.
One is the weather that we experienced was a huge factor.
As you remember last winter was the coldest winter in a long long time maybe in history and certainly Appalachia I kind of come from not too far from there it can be really really cold and we had issues associated with weather.
Secondly we had issues with labor productivity something that is both in and outside of our control.
But in terms of the learnings I think that's where we've learned the most.
The third piece is the Mitsubishi machine that's the first time it's been installed in the United States and the learnings from that put us in I think a better position going forward.
So it's not symptomatic within the organization.
You're correct we've taken a very measured look at many of the programs and projects we're doing including the ones that are fixed price and I don't see a fly in the ointment so to speak.
And I guess that's kind of what you're getting at relative to what we've got in backlog or the competitive nature of our offerings.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> The Power projects have been competitively bid for the last many years and we've done well on them over the last several that were competitive bids.
So I wouldn't put something in a distinct category just because it happened to be competitively bid.
This is more attributable to the things David just described as opposed to being in a competitive situation.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then related to the Westinghouse contract just trying to think about what the impact would be there on working capital and cash flow because I appreciate that there's no perhaps cost overrun risk but just I imagine you're taking on thousands of employees.
And I'm wondering if you're able to structure  I know it's in process but will you be able to structure the contract so that there is no cash flow lagging and dragging down of your working capital on cash flow? Not any more than any other project that we do.
When we start off there's obviously a little more expense than cash coming in but in this case it won't be significant.
And again as I've said it's premature to even talk about that because we've got to get through the assessment in support of Westinghouse before we get to what scope we will actually do.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Hey Tahira.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Tahira.
Inc.</span></strong> David first question is really in regards to the uptick from backlog.
Clearly given especially the fab yard you've bought you're in a really good competitive position.
So I can see you gaining market share potentially.
But how should I think about when I listen to customer calls and they're calling for 30% sort of cost reductions.
How does that show up in terms of the optics of what you're booking going forward? Well I think the relationship with the Zhuhai yard puts us in a very competitive position.
It's a low cost producer.
You marry that with what I think is probably the best supply chain capabilities in our marketplace and I feel very comfortable that we can not only satisfy the capital efficiency needs of our customers but also the profitability that we expect.
I actually think that we've been  I'd like to say we're brilliant but I think our timing's just right in terms of these investments we've made the overhead reduction that we went through last year and into this year the organizational shifts that we've made focus on directing our (39:35) construction and fabrication.
It puts us in I think our sweet spot and the fact that our customers are prioritizing and looking for lower cost projects falls right smack dab in the middle of the strategy that we've deployed.
So I feel pretty bullish on our ability to satisfy our customers and win and satisfy our shareholders.
Inc.</span></strong> And David does the other projects in scope just looking smaller though as you gain share is it enough to offset the fact that each small project might be getting smaller in size just because costs are lower on the materials et cetera? I don't know.
I think the portfolio will still be pretty robust but clearly if the customers allow us to do what we've learned these projects are going to be significantly lower in cost.
So therefore you're going to see a drop in revenue from what the project should look like a year ago and what it should look like going forward.
But I don't think that's significantly less and there are customers that embrace this.
All of them are saying that they want more capital efficient programs and some of them are willing to do things differently and others aren't.
And we'll supply service to them and do those projects too but in those cases the projects won't come down 30%.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
And last question David we've seen some positive movement at least in headline news on some of the UK nuclear projects.
Is that an area that you're looking at at all or is it only from the SMR side? So pretty long-term right now? We're looking at both the SMR side and the next-generation reactor there and in fact we're discussions with some folks.
But we're also part of the decommissioning infrastructure in the UK as well so we're well footed I think in the UK nuclear space.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Tahira.
We'll take our next question from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Good evening everyone.
Michael.
David just again back to Westinghouse and the contract.
When I read in documents about liquidated damages and more risk involved that's just a Westinghouse issue and as again as you guys negotiate your contract that's not going to be anything that Fluor needs to be concerned about.
Correct? That's correct.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And secondly when you think about Energy and Oil &amp; Gas and what the customers are going through right now it's been a year-and-a-quarter since prices have peaked.
What do you think it's going to take for customers to get more confident? Is it the dollar price of the barrel of crude oil or is it just a better sense of global economic activity or even the U.S.
which seems to be seeing a little bit of a soft spot here? What do you think it's going take? And is that something that you could foresee happening in 2016? Man if I knew the answer to that I could retire.
You and I could get in all the...
Yeah.
You could...
...all the Giants games we wanted to go to.
You could buy the Cowboys.
I know you could.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know Mike that's a great question.
I'd just make two comments.
The first comment is I'm hearing from many of the oil and gas customers that 70 is the new 100.
And I think that what you've got is some stability in terms of oil price.
It's volatile.
I mean yesterday it was up 6%.
Not sure exactly what it ended up today but I think the oil and gas companies have gotten comfortable with the fact that $120 a barrel isn't something they should plan anything on.
So if they're thinking that 70 is the new 100 then they're planning on something that's significantly less than 70.
Now it's taking time and the second point I would make is in this process these customers I might risk getting in trouble with some of them but I think some of them would tell you that $120 a barrel made them lazy in terms of their capital decisions.
So they're kind of stepping back again as I said earlier and what are those priorities and what is the actual need from a capital perspective making sure that they've got that capital efficiency card kind of played within their program.
And then slowly but surely moving towards FID.
So I think that kind of the deep breath has taken place.
But they also see that if they don't keep doing particularly in the upstream some of these programs that you got to think about it some of these programs take 10 years from the first test well to actual production.
They can't wait much longer.
So that new statistic of  you pick the number I don't know if it's $50 or $40 or $35 or whatever the number is that they're using in their models they're clearly using a lower number and many many of these projects that we are pursuing make sense at that new number.
But it needs to be reconfigured.
And we need to  they need to let us apply some of these things that we've learned in order to get those project values down.
So I think we're kind of in that shakeout period right now where some things are slowly but surely moving towards FID that are in the upstream sector.
But that's just one piece as I mentioned.
Refining's doing quite well.
Petrochemicals are doing quite well.
Power there's power projects in front of us.
There's Infrastructure programs in front of us.
So it's not just a one-trick pony for Fluor when it comes to upstream oil and gas.
That's been very helpful David.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi John.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Hey John.
David I guess in terms of your backlog and what you're talking about now for 2016 how much work left in that backlog was won or is projects that are being completed based on commodity prices of two years ago? In other words you're finishing off large projects that need to be finished at this point.
Cerro Verde in Peru is one big one that's kind of finishing up on the last kind of the big mining things that are there.
But that's really...
And that finishes in 2016? Pardon? That finishes in 2016? Late 2016 maybe early 2017.
Okay.
But that's really the only thing of any consequence that finishes next year.
Okay.
Okay.
I'm just trying to understand how much is contributing to those earnings.
And then the second question is in terms of your CapEx guidance the $300 million it seems like a significant uptick given the market conditions.
Can you talk about that a little bit maybe what's driving that? Well we...
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> I mean of course it is an estimate.
It can be higher or lower.
Yeah.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> The biggest variability of it is associated with equipment demand.
So in terms of projects moving to construction and having demands in that regard we certainly expect growth.
We don't expect a lot of growth out of mining at this point as we talked about which is where certainly a lot of the business in the past has been associated.
The other part of spending is on the more corporate-related CapEx.
So to the extent that we have buildings for our own use that we invest in around the world is a demand for capital.
We make those decisions as we go through time in some cases we have options to purchase and that sort of thing that's embedded in that number.
But that's one of the reasons why it'll end up being something different at the end of the day.
It might be more or less depending on the circumstances and what we decide to do from a standpoint of lease versus buy.
Thanks Biggs.
Thank you all very much.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Company.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess a couple of them here around the guidance.
And I'm just curious as to how much of next year's range do you feel like  do you believe is already in backlog has already booked as under contract? And how much more do you need to make that range? How does that compare to history as well? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Well I think obviously from a historical standpoint our burn relative to backlog has been higher.
But that's almost sort of the new norm now.
So we'll look at it at the end of the year and we'll actually publish statistic as a part of our 10-K what we expect the burn rate to be of the backlog at that point in time.
I think it's a little early to say right now but it's probably going to end up being a lot like the way this year's was in terms of how it played out in terms of the relationship of the revenues actually burned out of backlog.
I don't expect anything real different.
I don't expect it I don't think there's any more risk to it or any less.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
You said...
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> (50:07) the stretch percentages are consistent with prior years.
Right.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
David you said burn is high relative to backlog do you mean it was low  you got lower revenue on same backlog? Yeah the burn is a bit low.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> It was higher in the past it's lower now yeah.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
Are there any are there any like...
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> And part of that  I know there's a lot of conversation about what might be in there that's causing that.
But just by the nature of the projects we have being very large and very long-term in their execution you're going to have some slower burn.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
And one of those projects has been LOGCAP.
As you went into fiscal 2015 you guys gave a view of what that would look like.
Can you update us on what you think LOGCAP's going to contribute to next year as it relates to this year? Well based on what  the same things you read troop count should be about the same in Afghanistan.
So it would be consistent with what we see this year if there's no other LOGCAP available to us.
We did win the one of the call-off contracts in the African continent.
But in my conversations with the Army they still feel like they're going to have a pretty significant presence in Afghanistan and you read the news they're probably going to have a few more people in Iraq and potentially Syria.
So that creates some opportunity for us as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah got it.
And the African contract is another contingency contract so you'd need something to happen there for that to deliver results.
Is that correct? That's right that's right.
We're following the military and the deployments that they do.
I mean a great example of that was the Ebola scare earlier this year and we were tasked to build facilities and the like for the U.S.
Army Medical Corps and how they dealt with controlling that epidemic.
So that's an example of where it's not just  it's not just war fighters I guess is what I'm getting at there's also some things around humanitarian care that the military gets the mission for and we're there to support them.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's good perspective.
Then there's a lot of talk here about tapping the petroleum reserve the Strategic Petroleum Reserve here.
Is that an added profit kicker for you guys as you look into next year or is that not an earnings driver for you? No we don't get paid on oil.
I wish we did sometimes.
No our contract is to manage a facility.
The U.S.
Government is going to determine whether they sell off part of it to create some cash flow for them for other purposes and then refill it over time.
So that really don't have any impact on our profitability.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Final question David just on ethylene.
Just curious you talked about seeing more going through  can you talk about the impact of low naphtha prices and how that is addressing and affecting the profitability of your customers and the impact that that might have on that next wave of crackers? Well it's certainly in the discussion.
I really don't know what impact it would have on the plans that are underway or certainly the ones that are being suggested right now because most of them there's no  to my knowledge I don't think any of the ones that are in that next wave are naphtha crackers but I might be wrong in that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> But from a competitive standpoint the naphtha somewhere else versus ethane here? No.
I think the more interesting thing is who's going to be investing in the U.S.
in ethylene and it's the traditional players but in a lot of cases they're partnering with folks like the Saudis and the Chinese and I think that kind of helps us because of our presence in those other places in terms of building those facilities the client relationships that we have in those types of places around the world.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon guys.
Just one for me as the rest of my questions have been asked.
A lot of talk in the upstream sector particularly around offshore products but also to some extent on your products onshore projects around standardization.
We've heard from some of the manufacturing folks that you can actually reduce the headline project price or project cost and actually increase the operating income that they can earn.
And I was just wondering if that same effect potentially exist for you guys as this standardization phenomenon plays out over time? Absolutely.
We're well down that road in terms of standard designs and offshore it's all about weight and reducing weight as well as the benefits that we're providing in the supply chain of all the commodities.
So we're well down the road on that initiative and in fact that's what really started for us about four years ago.
So I think we're well-positioned and aligned with our customers.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the response guys.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Good evening.
Thank you for taking my question.
I wanted to ask about the Government segment.
I saw some mixed trends there.
Revenues were up.
New awards down quite a bit.
And so following up on the earlier commentary now that it seems to be Government budgets particularly the defense budget remains at similar levels what are you seeing in the pipeline for 2016 and 2017 for Federal work in the United States and perhaps some of the key international markets as well? Well you know we kind of work for the U.S.
Government and the British Government in that space.
And we're continuing to see opportunities in the Department of Energy space if you will.
Some of those big programs are in the process of being bid and we're in the process of getting extensions in some others.
So you're going to see in terms of DoE business some lumpiness just because of when those things come forward.
There is some  one of them in this quarter but it's just kind of a bridging period before we can take in the full extension.
So there's an example where it was a little bit this quarter but a bigger number coming later.
And that's just in one facility in the DoE space.
So there's growth opportunity there but it's going to be tough competition.
Everybody's kind of teamed up with one another.
And it's pretty fierce competition.
In terms of the DoD they're doing the same things that a lot of the private sector's doing in terms of cost rationalization some shutdowns being more competitive in terms of how they provide the service to the military.
So some of these base contracts will be coming up.
And it'll be more based on best value and how much money you can take out of the end game not just the rate per hour for an individual.
But then there's also a fair amount of deployment bases that are coming up for bid during the next two years that we feel like we've got a good position to deal with.
So it's going to be a lumpy thing.
It's not going to be as big as it was at the height of LOGCAP in Afghanistan.
We've said that in the past.
But it's a good steady state almost annuity-type business that provides some of the underpinning of the company.
And it's for a pretty good customer.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on Kitimat could you update what's going on there? We continue to support our customer.
And again that's one of those that's been rationalized and poked and prodded and re-estimated.
And we're waiting on our customer in what they want to do next.
But we're still supporting our customer there.
As you may know they brought a new partner in.
The new partner had new ideas.
And they're looking at  we've gone back to some of the FEED documents and incorporated some of the new partner's wishes.
So it's going to be a slow roll.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah our level of effort there has been low over the last year and we would expect it to be that way.
Okay.
Just a few more clarification questions.
On the nuclear projects did I hear you right that Westinghouse will be keeping some of the work beyond their prior scope? Well they kind of had the whole scope before and they've got the whole scope now.
Okay.
And we're trying to figure out exactly what they will maintain and what they'll ask us to do for them.
So it's kind of  it's still a little too early to say.
Understood.
And then for guidance just mechanically were you expecting the $0.30 gain in this quarter earlier in the year or is this a new update for guidance for 2015? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> No.
We were anticipating some gain from this transaction as it was developing.
When we had the second quarter call we were pretty clear that we thought it was going to be at least $40 million which assuming the tax rate played out as expected would translate to  at normal tax rate it would have been $0.18.
In the call I said yeah there are some things to be estimated including the fair value of what we're retaining which under GAAP we were going to be recording a gain with respect to.
And that was something that we didn't know exactly how it was going to play out and that's what produced though ultimately the gain at $68 million relative to the minimum of $40 million.
So clearly the $40 million we said was in our guidance coming in and then after that it was a range of possibilities that obviously ended up playing out at $68 million.
By same token as I already said we weren't planning on having any problem projects so there just ended up being an offset in terms of the circumstances of the quarter and the year between the extra gain that we recorded on the Spanish venture and then the one Power project.
That's very helpful.
And just the last one for me on foreign exchange that's embedded in your guidance.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> From a foreign exchange standpoint there was a slight negative effect in the quarter.
It was about $1 billion negative effect on backlog.
On EPS in the quarter it was about $0.03.
I think last quarter it was about $0.02.
Other than that  well you know so it's been fairly small and we're not projecting anything significant on a go-forward basis.
We do have a lot of natural hedges and specific hedges we've put in place and we would assume that those continue to play out to be relatively effective.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Seaton for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thanks to everyone who participated on our call today.
As you can see by the results this quarter the Oil &amp; Gas group continues to perform well.
And customers with high-quality projects continue to move forward even in a tough environment and even as long as some of them are taking to get to FID.
Myself along with the rest of our management team have seen a number of cycles like these over the years.
We know that it's important to remain flexible and the decisions we've made over the past few years to cut overhead costs and develop a better solution for our customers gives us just that.
As we look ahead to 2016 we see not only some headwinds but also pockets of opportunity.
Our ability to deliver in any environment has been proven and enhanced over the last few years.
With that we really appreciate your interest in our company as well as your confidence and we wish everyone a good day.
This does conclude the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
Good afternoon and welcome to Fluor Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
The question-and-answer session will follow the management's presentation.
A replay of today's conference call will be available at approximately 8:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today accessible on the Fluor's website at www.fluor.com.
The web replay will be available for 30 days.
A telephone replay will also be available through 7:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on February 24 at the following telephone number 888-203-1112 the passcode of 5904252 will be required.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Geoff Telfer Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Telfer.
Corporate Finance and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Justin and welcome to Fluor's fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
With us today are David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Biggs Porter Fluor's Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings announcement was released this afternoon after market close and we have posted a slide presentation on our website which we'll reference while making prepared remarks.
But before getting started I'd like to refer you to our Safe Harbor note regarding forward-looking statements which is summarized on slide two.
During today's call and slide presentation we'll be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current analysis of existing trends and information.
However there is an inherent risk that actual results could differ materially.
You can find a discussion of our risk factors which could potentially contribute to such differences in the company's Form 10-K which was filed earlier today.
During today's call we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these amounts with the comparable GAAP measures are reflected in our earnings release and posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.fluor.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Seaton Fluor's Chairman and CEO.
David? Thanks Geoff.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
On today's call we'll review our fourth quarter and full year of 2015 as well as discuss our outlook for 2016.
Before we talk about our fourth quarter and full-year results I do want to spend a few minutes and to share my perspective on the markets we serve.
Global economic growth continues to be weak and commodities prices remain low.
We expect economic growth of the year to be similar of the past few years.
Yet we also expect commodity prices to stabilize during this year and perhaps even begin to improve in the last part of the year.
The lower commodity prices obviously continue to impact our customers' cash flows and therefore their ability on fund certain new projects at the same pace as they've done previously.
Many of our customers have already announced significant reductions in their capital expenditure budget of 2016.
However Fluor serves a diverse portfolio of industries and regions which provides the company opportunities even in difficult market environments.
While low oil prices may delay some Oil &amp; Gas projects Flour is focused on our clients and their spending priorities.
As I mentioned in the past we continue to see the FID and large greenfield LNG facilities to move to the right as clients focused on opportunities to improve capital efficiency.
By that extension it is important to note that we do not anticipate any material contributions from LNG projects during 2016.
Our Power business should experience strong growth this year with the Westinghouse projects now fully transitioned plus the business has experienced an uptick in gas-related projects.
Our Government and Infrastructure markets are also experiencing growth with key recent wins including the $1.4 billion nuclear cleanup project in Idaho and the Arizona Loop 202 project.
We also expect to hear shortly the outcome of our bid to build the 16-mile purple line light rail project in Maryland.
We continue to implement our integrated solutions strategy.
Our strategy focuses on delivering the full spectrum of capital-efficient solutions for our customers.
We've taken significant steps in 2015 to broaden our offering including expanding our global fabrication footprint with the announcement of the COOEC joint venture in China and extending our position in the construction and maintenance markets through the Westinghouse nuclear awards and our upcoming acquisition Stork.
While we're talking about fabrication investments and historic acquisition let me give you an update on closing status.
Our JV with COOEC and the Zhuhai Fabrication Yard continues to progress.
We're receiving final approvals now and expect to make our first payment in the next few months.
Back in December we announced the intent to our acquire Stork a maintenance and modification and asset integrity company based in the Netherlands.
Stork enhances not only our current offering but creates tremendous opportunity to leverage our combined capabilities and brands across a broad spectrum of opportunities.
We anticipate this transaction to also close in the next few months.
While we expect 2016 to be another challenging year our focus will be on the things that we can control.
Now let's look at our 2015 full-year results beginning with slide five  slide three.
Excluding a pre-tax non-operating pension settlement expense of $240 million net earnings attributable to Fluor from continuing operations were $571 million or $3.89 per diluted share compared with $715 million or $4.48 per diluted share a year ago.
Consolidated segment profit for 2015 was $1 billion which compares to $1.3 billion a year ago.
Despite volatile oil prices our Oil &amp; Gas segment performed very well during the year contributing $764 million in segment profit a 14% increase over 2014.
However this increase was offset by the decline in other segments.
Segment profits  profit margins were 5.7% which compares with 5.9% a year ago.
Consolidated 2015 revenue was $18.1 billion down from $21.5 billion a year ago.
Full-year new awards were $21.8 billion including $11 billion in Oil &amp; Gas $6 million in Power $3.2 billion in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure and $1.4 million in Government.
Consolidated backlog for the year-ended  ending was $44.7 billion up 5% from $42.5 billion a year ago.
Our clients have not given any indication that they intend to cancel any ongoing projects with us.
Turning to slide four the Oil &amp; Gas segment booked $2.1 billion in new awards including two Pemex refining projects in Mexico.
Ending backlog for that segment was $28.8 billion which compares $28.5 billion in 2014.
Fourth quarter new awards in Industrial &amp; Infrastructure were $302 million.
We closed the year with a backlog of $5.6 billion compared to $7.2 billion at the end of 2014 which reflects the reduced mining and metals new award activity.
The Government group posted fourth quarter new awards of $352 million and their ending backlog in 2015 was $3.6 billion.
Turning to slide five in the Power segment fourth quarter new awards of $5.1 billion including award for two reimbursable contracts with Westinghouse Electric Company to manage the construction workforce at two nuclear power plants in Georgia and South Carolina ending backlog in 2015 was $6.8 billion which compares to $2.1 billion a year ago.
Segment profit for the fourth quarter was impacted by $31 million charge related to a gas-fired power facility in Brunswick County Virginia.
This was primarily related to commissioning taking longer than it's expected due to changes and challenges associated with the installation of the gas turbines that extended past in the third quarter.
This project has reached mechanical completion.
We anticipate turning this project over to the customer in the spring.
With that now I'll turn the call over to Biggs to review some of the details of our operating performance and the corporate financial metrics for the quarter.
Biggs? Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Please turn to slide six of the presentation.
I'll start by providing some additional comments on our fourth quarter performance then move to the balance sheet.
Revenue for the quarter was $4.4 billion which compares to $5.5 billion a year ago.
All segments reported slight year-over-year revenue reductions with the exception of Industrial &amp; Infrastructure which experienced a 41% decline mainly due to the continued reduction in mining activity.
Excluding the pension settlement expense of $231 million or $1.04 per diluted share in a quarter EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $0.68 compared to $1.41 a year ago.
Including pension settlement expenses the company reported a loss of $51 million or $0.36 per diluted share.
This quarter's EPS was negatively impacted by approximately $0.21 per share due to the combined effect of the $31 million charge on the Brunswick power project and a higher than expected tax rate due to losses in two foreign subsidiaries that we weren't able to benefit for U.S.
tax purposes.
These tax effects can reverse the future.
Over the course of the year we've received a few questions about the impact of foreign exchange rates on the P&amp;L.
Looking at the impact of FX on a quarterly basis there is very little variation.
However when you look at FX from a yearly impact 2015 versus 2014 using average rates of both periods there is a negative impact EPS of approximately $0.20.
Corporate G&amp;A expense for the fourth quarter was $54 million compared to $53 million a year ago.
Shifting to the balance sheet Fluor's financial position remains very strong with cash plus current and non-current marketable securities totaling $2.4 billion flat with a year ago.
In 2015 the company generated $849 million in cash flow from operating activities compared to $643 million in 2014.
The company also returned $635 million in cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In the first quarter of 2015 as you recall we also settled the claim from discontinued operations of $306 million.
Absent that cash flow from operations would be even stronger.
The previously announced $1 billion share repurchase program was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014 to the end of 2015.
For the year we repurchased 10 105 000 shares.
On February 4 2016 the board of directors increased our outstanding share repurchase authorization by 10 million shares.
However although our cash position is strong at the year-end everyone should keep in mind that we have existing near-term commitments for our cash.
Moving to slide seven Fluor's consolidated backlog at year-end was $44.7 billion.
The percentage of fixed-price contracts in our overall backlog was 22% at quarter end and the mix by geography was 41% U.S.
and 59% non-U.S.
For the year backlog was negatively impacted by about $3 billion as a result of the strong dollar.
I will conclude my remarks by commenting on our guidance for 2016 which is on slide eight.
We're maintaining our guidance for 2016 at $3.50 to $4 per share.
Our guidance for 2016 also assumes G&amp;A expense in the range of $190 million to $200 million at a tax rate of 33% to 35%.
Other expectations for 2016 include new scale expenses of approximately $90 million as we get to DCA submittal later this year capital expenditures of approximately $300 million and our payments to fund our joint venture with COOEC of $350 million in the first half and $140 million in the third quarter of this year.
Our guidance does not include any benefit related to our acquisition of Stork nor any transaction and integration-related costs.
This transaction is expected to close as early as March.
Our guidance reflects an expectation of gradual quarterly improvement in 2016.
With that operator we're ready to take questions.
The first question come from Andrew Kaplowitz with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good evening guys.
Good evening.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon Andrew.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> How you doing? David so look we know new awards are lumpy but just trying to think about how to think about them going forward.
So ex the nuclear projects you booked close to $3 billion of work with most of that Oil &amp; Gas.
Maybe you can talk about what you think right now is sort of the underpinnings of work in a more difficult environment.
Should this be the minimum that you generally have in any quarter like a $3 billion number again ex nuclear? Was 4Q anomalously low and could you average higher in 2016? Just how do we think about it going forward? Yeah I mean that's a great question.
I think it's going to be even more lumpy in 2016 than we've seen in the past.
The  what we're going to see is that many of the customers are still taking an extra quarter or so to make their decisions.
So we run the risk of having a project go from first quarter to the second quarter or second quarter to the third quarter.
So I think it's going to be somewhat more lumpy and I believe backend loaded more so this year than in previous years.
We still have a  I mean it's a robust plan that's synonymous with the former year in terms of the things we're looking at.
So I feel good about the total number but it's just going to be a little bit of a dance here at the end of the quarter based on what decisions our customers make.
We are getting indications that many of these customers are moving forward to FID on some of these programs and projects.
So it gives us confidence that we'll be able to book these things.
But giving a lot of clarity right now in terms of what quarter they'll come in I really can't provide that right now.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay that's helpful David.
So look you ended up recording 7.6% margin in Oil &amp; Gas it's obviously an impressive result.
You've talked about 2016 a little before  I think you guys have talked about low 6% Oil &amp; Gas margins where we can end up in 2016.
If Oil &amp; Gas stays weaker for longer can you sustain that kind of margin and how much more cost out opportunity do you have in Oil &amp; Gas? Like how do we get a read on these very high margins in a modestly weaker environment for you guys? Well I'll answer it this way.
I think our teams have done an outstanding job in terms of what they brought in the backlog and the quality of earnings in backlog has not taken a hit a significant hit.
We've really  I'm really pleased with the way the organization has responded really pleased with the way the market and in particular our customers responded to this integrated solutions model which gives us confidence that number one that strategy is working and is welcomed by our customers and two is producing the kind of margins that we expect to get.
So I feel pretty good about the quality of earnings that are in our backlog.
Now that does not mean there hasn't been pricing pressures in certain markets and doesn't mean there won't be pricing pressures going forward.
But I think maintaining that kind of a level during 2016 is quite doable.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So David is it possible to do better than low 6%s if things go right for you in 2016? It's  I'd rather not get into any more color on the margins than I've ever done.
So I think I'll just stick with my 6%s for you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> In the end of course Andy a lot of that depends upon mix so it's hard to get more precise.
Mix and timing.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
I'll let you Jamie push you on that guys.
Thanks.
Good try.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
And our next question will come from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Okay.
Go ahead Jamie.
I'm not...
Go ahead and give me the question.
I'm not even going to go  I'm not even going to start on Power.
I'll let someone else to do that.
But anyway I guess my first question relates to the guidance for 2016.
I guess I was a bit surprised that you maintained your guide given you don't assume any contribution from Stork which I get because it hasn't closed yet.
But just based on your commentary that customers are slowing spend over a longer period of time you knew that you had Westinghouse when you initially gave you guide in the third quarter doesn't seem like tax rate has changed.
So I'm just trying to get a sense have the puts and takes of the guidance changed relative to  even we're still at the same place relative to where were last quarter? And then David I guess my question to you is Andy's trying to ask about Oil &amp; Gas revenue and operating profit for 2016 or margins but I guess my concern is or what I'm trying to understand is how do I think about the run rate of Oil &amp; Gas profits as we exit the year.
Because my concern I guess is more as we think about 2017 if awards don't materialize this year in Oil &amp; Gas which I don't think they do how do I think about or how materially down earnings can be in 2017 because I can't think of a good reason why outside of what we know about Westinghouse and Stork out why the other businesses could actually sort of make up for the decline that we're going to see in Oil &amp; Gas.
Well you know Jamie it's kind of interesting.
I don't really want to talk about 2017 yet.
I want to make sure we deliver on 2016.
But our diversity does provide those puts and takes that you mentioned.
And yes there have been puts and takes that keeps us at the guidance where we are which is a value of the diversity that we enjoy.
If we were just an Oil &amp; Gas company you'd probably seen us reduce things like a lot of other folks have over the last few quarters.
But that diversity pays off.
The ability to take on big projects and power helps that earnings stream our ability to do operations and maintenance work our ability to work in the pharmaceutical business in the infrastructure sector all helps us from a diversity standpoint maintain earnings power.
So I think that we've got the opportunity to perform as we suggested at the end of the third quarter.
Relative to Oil &amp; Gas right now as we see it the year will be reasonably strong.
And as we enter 2017 assuming that a couple of things happen that we anticipate 2017 should be equally strong in terms of Oil &amp; Gas.
So I guess there's a bit of a bearish tone in terms of the overall and most of that bearish tone is coming from the press.
I'm fairly bullish about our ability to deliver on 2016.
I'm pretty bullish about our position in the marketplace to add backlog as  at least stay flat with backlog as we enter 2017.
So the glass is half full and I don't see the doom and gloom that a lot of people are and I guess your question kind of leads us towards.
Well I guess just to  so just to be clear you said operating profit in the Oil &amp; Gas should still be relatively strong or comparable to what we're going to see in 2016? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> It's probably down some from the whole dollar basis from 2016  or from 2015 excuse me Jaime go on into 2016 but as David says it's still strong.
It's not a precipitous decline but it is some degree of decline there.
So that's reflected somewhat by the lower margin rate that was already led you...
But  no but I was more interested I guess in his 2017 commentary that it could still be pretty strong.
Because I guess my question would be if there's no big LNG project sitting it doesn't sound like TCO is going to go anytime soon so I'm just trying to figure out what I'm missing on what you could book in terms of saying backlog could be flat with where we ended this year as we exit the year? Jaime there's a lot of things out there and people are still spending money.
I mean everybody wants to talk about LNG and TCO but we've won four packages on refineries in Kuwait.
We've won two projects in refining in Mexico.
We've won refining projects in the United States with Tesoro and some others.
So there's a lot of spending going on and we're not hanging our hat on one or two projects.
We as a company have over 2 500 active projects at any given time and that's what gives us the strength and the confidence to be able to say we've got a good solid hope.
Now obviously the sky could fall but assuming that it doesn't we should be in a good position as we end 2016.
And sorry and I promise I won't ask another question just a clarification.
The backlog comment was that related to Oil &amp; Gas or the total company when you said it could be flat by the end of 2016? Total company.
Okay.
All right thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Thanks.
Thanks you.
Next question comes from the Steven Fisher with UBS.
Thanks Good afternoon.
Hi Steve.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
David how would describe the flow of FEED work at the moment because that obviously tends to be more steady? I guess I'm just kind of wondering what you've experienced in terms of the change in pace in FEED in the last few months.
And maybe as you think about the whole company which end market are you seeing the most new FEED work come in and which the least? And that kind of a trend positions into a question about sort of is there a base level of Oil &amp; Gas bookings that you think you could see over the next year as a result of kind of FEED and flow kind of work? Well I think you got to peel the onion on Oil &amp; Gas back a bit.
But let's just talk about the other groups first.
We're seeing an uptick in opportunity in the Infrastructure group.
They kind of hit a lull as you ended 2014 and early 2015.
And we're seeing a significant slate of opportunities that are there and part of that is I think the U.S.
government focus on infrastructure and the things that are necessary to keep the U.S.
economy going.
So that's a bright spot.
We're seeing an uptick in terms of pharmaceutical and biotech opportunities.
With the FDA approving drugs some of those projects are getting off of the mark.
We're seeing a significant amount of frontend work study work on gas-fired power plants and we see a pretty robust opportunity slate there.
When you look at Oil &amp; Gas though you got to peel the onion and peel it this way.
Number one there is no drilling going on.
You can read the rig counts just like anybody else.
We don't have any exposure to that.
You can look at the big deepwater drilling.
The horizontal drilling in some difficult places obviously that's slowing and we don't do that either.
We are seeing however a fair amount of work in traditional offshore and traditional onshore upstream Oil &amp; Gas and significant FEED work in those areas because there  the oil companies are going to take in their deep breath and they're looking at okay what are the priorities and now those priorities are coming out as studies and feeds in those markets.
And those are slow but they're coming.
I think the FEED activity that's picked up is as I said earlier has been in refining and it continues to be in petrochemicals and fine chemicals.
So you kind of got to peel the onion and the things that we have exposure to.
We're still seeing a pretty robust slate of frontend work that again gives us kind of visibility.
Going back to Jamie's question about 2017 we've got good visibility into  the priority of the projects that our customers were taking the economic viability of those projects based on current economic factors and that's what leads us to say that we'll have a pretty robust  the award slate that's  in robust to me means equal to this year and certainly provides some visibility into the opportunities of 2017.
So again I go back to what I said during Jamie's question the glass is half full.
And it's half full for us because of the fact that we've really stuck to our customers and we've answered their call for integrated solutions and capital efficiency.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> To better...
Okay that...
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> ...reinforce David's earlier comment that the key variables seems to be one of timing as opposed to expectation.
Right.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess you just sort of answered this next question but it's sort of a bigger picture thing about  to what extent is this commodity price backdrop and macro outlook really causing you to rethink the way you do business versus just kind of the cost restructuring you did and making some of these strategic moves that you might have done anyway.
Really just trying to gauge your perspective on how much hunkering down and really rethinking your overall business model there needs to be here.
I mean it sounds like you said it's kind of glass half full and you think there's a lot out there.
But I mean do you feel the need to really rethink the way things are going or are they that sort of dire? It sounds like not.
Well it's  that's a great question.
I was at an event this morning at the Dallas Fed and the same kind of discussion was taking place.
And it's interesting.
I remember it and I've said this on these calls before in private meetings with you guys.
I sat in Saudi Arabia in 1997 and oil was $17 a barrel up from $11.
This isn't the first time me or people within our industry or our company have seen these kind of swings and volatility in markets.
And they will fix themselves.
I mean when you think  right now there's an oversupply of oil products.
There's an oversupply of gas.
There's an oversupply of LNG.
It's going to take a while for that to clear but it will clear.
And when you think about particularly Oil &amp; Gas customers they haven't said they're going to stop spending.
They said they're going to cut their capital spending.
And that just means that they're going to prioritize and look at those high-value projects which is one of the litmus test or selectivity sieves that we use in terms of what projects we actually pursue.
So again I think our strategy is sound in terms of how we want to face the market and how we want to deal with the customers and which projects do we want to prioritize on.
But that does not mean that we're not going to continue to look at our strategy focus on cash management focus on lower  continuing to find areas of how we do our projects to lower cost to meet that demand that the customer is asking for in terms of capital efficiency.
So we're going to continue to work and as I said in the prepared remarks focus on the things that we could control.
And right now that's how we focus on the customers and how we sell a different way of doing projects that delivers what they're asking for.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And next will come Andrew Wittmann with Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great thanks for taking my question.
There was a comment in the 10-K that you expect 38% of the backlog to burn this year.
That implies about $17 billion of revenue.
So I guess two parts from here how much book and burn do you think is available to you with your current outlook here? And then when we kind of marry that $17 billion number assuming there isn't any book and burn in it we know there is but it does imply that margins are probably in the high 4% range.
Can you just kind of give your thoughts on the implicit margin from that in the book and burn work that's available to this year? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Well that's sort of a backend way to give us to give real revenue guidance and there's a fair amount of variability in terms of mix as we know  that's what we've experienced over the last couple of years on revenue.
So I think that we'll not go too far in answering your question.
But certainly I think that much of what we have in revenues substantial majority of it is already in backlog.
If you look at how we've talked about margins over the last couple of months going back to the third quarter call and then presentation since then if you aggregate that all together you're probably on a consolidated basis somewhere in the plus 4% range but where exactly that lands is  this is a tough call.
There's just too many variables.
So we feel good about the extent that our revenues are covered significantly by what's in backlog.
Yes there is some book and burn.
I think that as we said the key variable there then is the timing of new awards and how fast that comes in.
But we feel really good about the prospects of those new awards but it's a little early to judge how they're going to play at what kind of a rate.
So that's what we're watching as we go through the year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got you.
And then maybe Biggs on cash flow I mean it was a very good year on cash flow.
I guess from here with you mentioned I think it was in the  maybe in the K or maybe in the comments that the equipment businesses is one of the areas where you saw a little bit of weakness.
Do you feel like you monetized some of your assets in that business and shore up the balance sheet what do you think the puts and takes are and what's the appetite for that newly expanded share repurchase plan as well? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Well as far as the equipment business goes we are expecting some pickup in 2016 particular as water projects transition towards construction.
So it has really come down as a result of lower mining activity it came down year-over-year as a result of Afghanistan.
But most of that was really reflected as lower levels of equipment back to the end of 2014.
So we'll see but we think that certainly there's prospects for that business to pick up as we support our own  just our own projects in construction in 2016.
In terms of capital deployment as I said initially we've got  we have a healthy cash balance.
We're really happy with how we generated cash last year and expect to do a great job of generating cash again this year but we have some expenditures right in front of us in terms of the funding of the China fabrication joint venture.
As I said in my comments there is $500 million over the course of the year just under $500 million that has to be funded.
So over the very near term I think we have places that we figure that will generate great returns over time to go invest in.
Beyond that our strategy remains the same as it has in the past typically.
We don't expect to preannounce any kind of a share repurchase program what we expect to do is as we go through time evaluate our excess capital as it's generated what to see first if there's some high investment opportunity that will create a good return for shareholders high investment return opportunity that will create a great return for shareholders; and then in the absence of that we'll look to see if we repurchase shares just like we have in the past.
But it's not a near-term analysis we have to go through because as I said we've got some near-term opportunities for our cash commitments we've already made.
We'll generate good cash flow in the future.
We had that expectation.
So we look forward to having to do that analysis going forward.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
And next will be Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Good evening everyone.
Hey Michael.
David your observations of Middle East you've mentioned about in 1999 when you're in Saudi at $17 oil given the geopolitics given where oil is today and some of the hysteria you're seeing from the press and such is that an area that can come back relatively quickly if oil prices come back? And is that an area where you could see some springboard to some business in 2017 and beyond? And being 2016 being more of an wait and see are there still opportunities with low gas and chemical side that you can  and the refining side you can push through more opportunities in that world? Well I'll get back to what I've said Michael.
They haven't stopped spending.
So there's still a pretty robust slate of projects but mostly refining and petrochemical programs just like you're seeing here in the States.
So I think there's near-term opportunities.
My experience out there suggests that it depends on how much of a return of the oil price happens and when.
But I've seen them turn on a dime in terms of what they want to do.
And I don't want to really call it a herd mentality but they got these things pinned up on their drawing board and they want to get them going and they can move pretty rapidly.
As I said I don't think you're going to see the supply situation change dramatically until as we get into the mid part of the year.
But once that glut kind of clears I think you can see commodity prices kind of stabilize if not rise as we get to the backend.
But the other thing that I'd warn everybody about is when you think about the long-term nature of Oil &amp; Gas developments from exploratory well to production it's a decade.
So they're not thinking about spending today for tomorrow.
They're thinking about spending today so that either the reserve base or their product mix or whatever is just focused on that further longer view.
And they're going to continue to fund those projects that satisfy that need.
So two ways answering your question one they can turn quick.
I don't anticipate it in 2016 but you're just still going to see steady spending on the things that makes sense.
David follow up on your answer to one of the questions early you have been at Dallas Fed presentation or something this morning.
It seems  given to what you see in your business and the diversity that you've put forth especially in infrastructure manufacturing life science U.S.
pipe opportunities do you get the sense that your customer base and the diversity trend and even in Power is going to allow for some better activity from your U.S.
customers allowing you to get some more business as we move through 2016 or is the concern about the economy that we read about in the press and hear and seen on TV all the time is more troublesome? I think it's  if I were to put a phrase on things I'd say steady as she goes.
I mean when you think about life sciences pharmaceuticals well the taxing regimes in places like Ireland and Singapore and some of the other places around the world have attracted those businesses so that's not going to be a U.S.-based business by and large.
I do still see the petrochemical resurgence in the United States continuing both in terms of additional crackers and to further downstream derivatives.
So there's an example of where the U.S.
will be there.
The Westinghouse projects kind of skew us back towards almost at 50-50 or 60-40 kind of range in terms of U.S.
versus non-U.S.
business.
But I still see more opportunities outside the United States than in the United States with the exception of maybe the Infrastructure business.
David thanks for your thoughts.
Thank you Michael.
And next will be Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Since no one's touched on it yet maybe you can just address the issues on the Brunswick power project and just maybe more specifically you're saying mechanical activities are done expected to be completely finished by spring.
But what risk activities might be left between now and then that we maybe  should be concerned about or not? Good question.
We're basically done.
It's in final throes.
The biggest issue is a startup condition where you introduce lube oil and you recycle lube oil and you make that change.
The suppliers program and what we were told by our customers that it took 45 days and it took us 90 days.
So therein lies the majority of  and it took us past the third- end of the third quarter obviously and that was certainly not anticipated.
But we're all but done in terms of the project.
I said in the last call that we had it under control and there were no losses.
So I'm not going to say it again but we're ready to start this thing up.
So I don't really anticipate anything that we haven't anticipated happened now.
Got it thanks.
And just secondly on  you made some comments on pricing.
You are seeing some pressure.
It doesn't seem like it's overwhelming.
But maybe just talk about what the assumptions are for 2016 and maybe not just in the Oil &amp; Gas but what you're seeing across Power and Infrastructure and some of the other businesses that are actually gaining a little momentum is there becoming increasingly competitive given that Oil &amp; Gas is falling or becoming weaker? Well I think you know the Power market is still a pretty tough market and will be for some time.
I would never categorize it as easy.
These are  there's a lot of competitors and they like to feed their house too.
And depending on how hungry they are is to how they act in terms of pricing.
So we still see that as pretty tough market.
But again the way we changed the way we're doing work applies to Power just like it applies to some of the other businesses.
So we're kind of changing the game a little bit.
And I think we've got a competitive offering.
Infrastructure is a little bit the same way.
But we're starting to see some of these things come to fruition and we're winning in things that we already know how to do roads and light rail and we're winning with acceptable margin with our partner.
So I feel reasonably okay there.
The other businesses are doing quite fine.
We talked a lot about Oil &amp; Gas our ability and the quality of the margin backlog that I spoke off is I think a testament to change in the model with how we deliver which makes us more competitive in the marketplace.
Our Government business has done quite well.
We really haven't talked about that but we won Idaho and a really really huge win for us and something we're really pleased with which again if you think about it that adds in  with the Stork acquisition it adds to that non-commodity piece of our business which should provide some stability in earnings over the longer term.
Those are big long three-year to five-year kind of contracts.
So again going back to part of my comment with  to Jamie that also gives us confidence in our ability to  in 2016 and start 2017 with a pretty robust capability in terms of earning potential.
So this is a hard business I mean.
And it's always competitive.
It's never easy in terms of what our competition confronts with or what our client expectations are.
And I'm just really proud of our organization how we respond to that and how we've responded as an organization to a new way of doing business that results in better margin performance across the board.
Just to summarize I mean it sounds like you are not assuming anything out of the norm relative to the last couple of years from pricing within the guidance for 2016 is that...
No.
Is that a fair statement? That's a fair statement.
We're seeing  we are seeing some of our competitors in a little bit of dire straits which you worry about in terms of what are they going to do next.
But we feel good about what we are pursuing and how we're pursing it and whom we're pursing it for.
That makes sense.
Yep thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next will be Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Good evening and thank you for taking my question.
Several questions actually just to clarify some of the commentary that was already made.
On the LNG comment David I assume you're talking about getting that but kind of broadly how much of your Oil &amp; Gas backlog is linked to LNG and there is  are there any other small expansion projects or maintenance projects that are still likely to be in the pipeline? Well my comment about LNG was more global not necessarily within our  with ours.
It is a general comment about LNG.
But in my prepared remarks I mentioned there's really no earnings in 2016 for LNG.
And what percentage of the backlog has been related to LNG is there any? We don't provide that.
Okay.
On the petrochem side of the business you sound optimistic about the future and derivative plans involving the crackers.
What is the status of the projects that you're working on right now? Well if you look at the three crackers in the U.S.
we're working on Dow and CPChem are well underway in construction.
And on the intended schedules that we were there in terms of cost we're right on target.
Sasol is the one that's a little bit behind just in terms of schedule.
We're in the field but really only on a  in the civil side of the business and feel pretty good about where we are there.
So I would say that they're progressing like we planned and progressing quite nicely for those customers.
Great.
And then in the Power segment can you update on the new scale filing timeline and investments that you're putting into new scale? Yeah.
As we said in the prepared  I think in Biggs's prepared remarks we're looking at about $80 million to $90 million spend this year leading up to the submittal of the design certification towards the first to the middle of the third quarter.
We've had great conversations with the DoE and the NRC about their preparedness to review that submittal.
We feel good about fact that our first customer has gotten into agreement with the DoE for a site for the first one in Idaho.
And just the fact that we won the Idaho project I think strengthens our ability to deliver on that.
So we're on target.
We feel good about what we're going to submit.
We feel good about the NRC's readiness to do that review.
And we think that opens the door for future investment and new scale from outside of Fluor.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
And next question will come from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Guys thanks all for taking call from me.
Hi Andrew.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Hi Andrew.
You will be glad to know Anna is back in one week.
Really? Yeah I know.
So just a question as there is sort of taking a sort of 40 000-foot view so you used 1990s as a reference to what's happening in the Oil &amp; Gas cycle.
So a lot of discussions we're having with clients.
Do you think it's more like the 1990s or it's more like the 1980s? And what do we think the differences  implied differences on strategy if it's more like the 1980s? Well I think the one thing that's not being spoken off is the demand growth in this discussion.
And when you look at those demand growths we're still looking at 1 million barrels a day kind of growth in the midterm I would say.
So when you think about some of the production that's going to naturally come off due to depletion curves you look at  I guess the Saudis and the Russians kind of put for lack of a better term a ceiling on production.
You can see where that glut's going to clear pretty quickly.
I think what's different this time is in lot of these producing countries their cost base has gone up because of the social programs.
So I think they're going to do what they can to turn this quick  more quickly than maybe would have taken place when you  even if you go back into the 1970s and what the embargo did.
So I'm not sure you can actually do a comparison to the 1990s not sure you can do a comparison to the 1970s or even if you go back into the early 2000s when pricing went down.
I just think it's a different marker.
And I'll give you an example.
This is the first time in my career where  when the sabers rattle between anybody in the Middle East that threatens the Straits of Hormuz and I'm speaking specifically about the issue between the Saudis and the Iranians that obviously was in the press the oil price didn't spike by $10 a barrel the next day and in fact this time it went down.
So I would argue that the fundamentals are significantly different today in terms of who's producing and how much they're producing.
And the change in the flow of those products over the last decade more gas more LNG LNG glut right now oil is there coal is bad.
I mean I just think that there's a lot of issues that are different in this cycle than they were in the past.
But I think the one thing that's going to drive maybe a quicker recovery than some of the historical times is the need for a cost per barrel to satisfy the social needs of some of these producers.
Thank you for such a great answer.
Just a follow-up in talking to a lot of corporates we're hearing that it's not about the price decline per se but it's also the price volatility that's inhibiting their ability to plan CapEx.
In your conversations with your customers how long  how much of a stability do we need to see in oil prices for them to get comfortable with putting plans out? Do you think it's one month do you think it's three months what are you hearing? Well I think they're already on a new level.
I think that and I've said this before I think many of them would say that they were drunk on $100 oil my term don't tell them I said that and probably wouldn't have made some of the funding decisions that they made if they didn't in their backroom believe that $100 oil was there to stay.
So I think in their backrooms now they are thinking you know $40 $50 kind of dollar range is the new norm and we have to plan on that basis.
And we're already seeing them use a more reasonable number.
I remember back in the day when they used to plan on $14 was the kind of the litmus test for capital spend.
So it'll morph and change but I think there's a huge wake-up call that $100 isn't something that that's there forever.
But I also remember everybody saying the sky would fall and the world would end if it ever went above $100.
That didn't happen either.
So I think what we're hearing from our customers is there's kind of a new norm and somewhere between $40 and $70 is probably the kind of the sweet spot for the longer term.
Thank you very much.
And our next question will come from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Hi Tahira.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Hi Tahira.
Inc.</span></strong> First question is David you commented earlier on aggregate backlog potentially being flat as possible this year.
Are there any segments in particular where you're more comfortable saying that than others? I think I've provided a little bit of color there.
I mean there's some growth opportunities in all of our businesses to a varying degree without  with  I would take mining out of that.
There's really not any intended new awards in there and we're finishing a couple of projects.
So I continue to see I&amp;I in terms of backlog drop because mining was such a huge piece of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
But you think  I mean $44 billion in backlog is almost at an all-time high and we have the ability or we've stated we have the ability to stay at that level.
I mean that speaks volumes of how powerful this company is in terms of satisfying customers and expanding our opportunities.
So again I wouldn't point to anyone other than mining that's a bit of a challenge.
Each of our groups has  have opportunities to grow.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And David your sort of optimism or your upbeat note on Oil &amp; Gas within your mix would you say that market share gains wise you stand pretty well but the fab yards? Is that also playing into your outlook? We don't really look at it in those terms.
I mean market share in this business is really a magic number.
I mean it's  you got to really understand what goes into that total number to see what market share is.
But what we have seen is a combination of the integrated solutions offering that includes fabrication includes supply chain includes a resurge in our direct hire construction capability is proving very effective with our customers.
And I think the fact that we continue to pull in billions of dollars every quarter in Oil &amp; Gas and obviously the other things that we do is a testimony to the customers' acceptance of our new way of doing business.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> You can add to that our ability to design the product differently.
Yeah.
But I also...
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
I think that our ability to continue to create or have a positive cash flow in some difficult markets is another testament to the strength of this company and what we can actually deliver.
I mean it provides us with the ability to go places when others can't.
I mean I go back to what Buffett says and I am not signaling any more acquisitions.
But Warren Buffett says that he's nervous when people are greedy and he's greedy when people are nervous.
Well right now people are nervous.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And we've got the powder to deal with the things we need to deal with.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it makes sense David.
I just had a brief last question.
And if I look at what's making a lot of these projects economical again on the Oil &amp; Gas side it's clearly the costs have down for the project.
Do you think you're at a point where your back bookings on an annualized basis are down considerably so would it be fair to say that the scope at this point even if it's reduced it's kind of taken into consideration when you are talking about potentially backlog even in that segment being potentially flat at some point? I mean I think it's puts and takes in this timing.
As Biggs said earlier when you think about the revenue it's all timing of projects and where they are in their cycle.
But I think being  having the kind of backlog where we are is interesting but I would point you back to maybe four years ago when it was half of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
So I think the way we position the company and the way we kind of changed our model when the markets move and they will I think we're in an outstanding position to take advantage of that and we have significant upside potential.
But I just think that that's further out in time then 2016 2017.
But we're ready and I'm really pleased with the way the organization's responded to this volatility.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks David.
Thank you.
That does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I'll now turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much operator and thanks to all of you for participating today.
As I said in my opening remarks we do expect commodity prices to stay low and we'll continue to drive customers' decisions.
But I do know that they're going to continue to spend and focus on these high quality projects that we have in our sites.
As I've mentioned our integrated solutions approach has met the demand in terms of our customers need for capital-efficient projects.
And we'll continue to work on that and hopefully continue to drive down those costs.
This is not a demand and that will subside when commodity price has begun to improve.
To that end the changes we've made in our business model have prepared us for the next cycle.
And that next cycle will come.
We've been through this  I've been in this business a long time and what is now down will go up again.
The evolution of our offerings I think has provided us with robust cash flow generation as I mentioned earlier and just strengthens our balance sheet and our ability to continue to operate.
I think our cost management discipline also gives us an advantage and an opportunity to be more successful in the future.
Not to say that 2016 is going to be an easy year it's going to be a difficult year.
But I think there's great opportunities as we go through this to continue to deliver for our shareholders.
With that I greatly appreciate your interest in our company and the confidence that you provide us and I wish you all a good day.
Well thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for participation today.