Good morning and welcome to the FMC Technologies First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] In the event of technical difficulties during this call we will post updates at www.fmctechnologies.com/earnings.
Thank you.
Your host is Brad Alexander Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin your conference.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current views and assumptions regarding future events future business conditions and our outlook based on currently available information these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
I refer you to our disclosures regarding risk factors in our SEC filings.
All per share numbers discussed today will reflect our March 31 2011 2-for-1 stock split.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies’ President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our first quarter 2011 conference call.
With me today are Bill Schumann our CFO; and Bob Potter our Executive Vice President.
First I'll share some highlights from the quarter Bill will provide specifics on our financial performance and outlook for the remainder of 2011 and then we'll open up the call for questions.
But before we begin our discussion of the quarter I'd like to say a few words about Peter Kinnear who recently stepped down from his position as Chief Executive Officer.
Peter is a true pioneer of the subsea business.
Starting in 1988 with the Subsea business of $40 million he oversaw the growth of the business to over $3 billion today.
He has achieved an impressive list of accomplishments over his 40 years at FMC.
During his 4 years as CEO the market capitalization of the company has almost tripled.
On behalf of all of the employees of the company I thank Peter for his direction and contributions to our growth and success of the company.
Now let's focus on our results.
Earnings for the quarter were $0.35 per diluted share that included a tax benefit of $0.03 that we disclosed previously in the fourth quarter call.
We recorded $1.4 billion in orders for the first quarter of which $940 million was for subsea systems that included 71 subsea trees.
Total company revenue was $1.1 billion.
Subsea revenue for the quarter was $683 million sequentially flat with the fourth quarter.
Our first quarter subsea revenue performance reflects the early stages we are in with many of our subsea projects included over the past year.
We still expect subsea sales to reach $3.3 billion for the full year.
Surface Wellhead revenue was up 5% from the first quarter of 2010 on strong North American activity partially offset by lower international revenue caused by timing of shipments.
Margins were lower than our full year guidance for energy production but we still expect to achieve margins averaging 12% to 13% for the full year.
Fluid Control delivered record sales and earnings as the North America pressure pumping market continues to be strong.
While results in the other Energy Processing businesses were flat with last year orders were up and backlog increased.
For the total company we anticipate the second half of the year to be stronger than the first half driven primarily by subsea results.
We continue to expect earnings to be in the range of $1.60 to $1.70 per diluted share.
Looking at the overall economic environment we have oil over $100 an uncertain economic recovery unrest in North America and the Middle East earthquakes in Japan financial instability in Europe hardly a normal economic environment.
Yet the impact of these events on our business has been low and the key reason is our subsea franchise is a long-cycle business.
Our customers have a long-term focus based on demand forecast and the overall deepwater economics driving their decisions.
Deepwater reserves remain economical with prices between $40 and $60 barrels per barrel as the technologies that we and others in the industry develop and deploy reduce cost and increase recovery rates.
As a result of this global capital spending of our customers remains strong and should continue.
Consistent with our comments during our last call deepwater drilling rigs continued to be ordered.
During the first 4 months of 2011 over 20 units by our count.
The list of major subsea projects to be awarded over the next 12 to 15 months remains promising but it is common and the timing is not always predictable.
A number of major projects: [indiscernible] look as though they're being delayed from late 2011 into early 2012.
However even on these projects the tender documents are out and the award process is proceeding.
In line with the favorable long-term view of the market we inbounded $940 million in subsea orders during the quarter from a number of customers related to work in Brazil Indonesia Canada and Norway.
It's important to note that the strong subsea inbound did not include any major projects that exceeded $150 million and that we were confronted with largely dormant Gulf of Mexico market.
Also in the quarter we signed a global frame agreement with BP 1 of the largest deepwater operators in the world that we anticipate will add to our order flow.
Although we're still uncertain about the drilling progress in the Gulf of Mexico we're becoming more optimistic given that 11 drilling permits have been issued so far in 2011.
While we have been successful rebuilding our subsea backlog since the downturn some of our competitors have yet to rebuild.
And as a result pricing will remain competitive.
But as the major projects I mentioned earlier are awarded we expect pricing to improve.
We continue to be optimistic on the growth of subsea processing activity.
A good example is the Congro project in Brazil which we expect to be awarded this year.
Here Petrobras is replacing an aging platform with a subsea processing facility.
Moving to our Energy Processing businesses.
We had another strong quarter that exceeded last quarter's results.
Fluid Control was higher than we expected as the North America pressure pumping market continues to point towards more sustainable growth.
We've historically been cautious about the economics of gas drilling in North America and its impact on our Fluid Control business.
But with more than 50% of the rigs drilling for either oil or plays with sizable liquid content we have more confidence about the economic underpinnings of this market.
As our expanded Fluid Control capacity comes online we will better meet our customers' growing demands for our sought-after pumps WECO/Chiksan treating iron and other new components such as our frac manifolds.
In summary first quarter finished with the largest subsea backlog in our company's history.
Fluid Control delivered record results and we continue to see growth opportunities in Surface Wellhead and other Processing businesses.
Bill will now take you through some of the financial details of the quarter.
Thanks John.
Energy production sales for the first quarter were $856 million down 4% from last year's first quarter and essentially even with the fourth quarter of 2010.
The decrease from the prior year is primarily attributable to lower subsea sales.
The lower subsea sales in the quarter were impacted by 2 factors.
First we're at the beginning of many of our subsea projects that were awarded in 2010.
Most of the work in the early stages of these projects is engineering.
Consequently in these early stages we recognize less costs less progress and hence lower income than in the later stages of these projects when higher costs are incurred.
As these projects progress into the second half of the year we expect the revenue to accelerate.
Second and more related to the sequential revenue comparison subsea sales tend to be somewhat seasonal with the fourth quarter normally our strongest quarter and the first quarter often the lightest.
Subsea sales of $683 million in the quarter were essentially even or flat with sales in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Again we expect sales to increase in the future quarters as progress increases and the seasonal effect of the first quarter is eliminated.
For the full year we still expect subsea sales of $3.3 billion.
Surface sales were up slightly over the first quarter of 2010 as North American sales increased but international sales declined as some delays impacted shipments.
Energy production generated operating profit of $82 million in the quarter down 48% from the prior-year quarter primarily due to lower margins in subsea projects.
These margins were in part a function of the sales level higher bidding expenses and some timing of items that we expect to improve later in the year.
In Surface and equally impacting margins we also had lower margins due to sales mix some execution issues along with some expenses associated with growth initiatives in North America.
So in total margins for the quarter were 9.6% in the segment.
For the full year we expect margins to average 12% to 13% and as John mentioned we expect the second half margins to be higher than the first half of 2011.
Inbound orders in energy production were $1.1 billion in the quarter including subsea orders of $940 million.
Backlog now stands at $4.2 billion including record subsea backlog of $3.9 billion.
Energy Processing sales were $226 million up 35% from the prior-year quarter and about even with the fourth quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year increase was driven by record sales in our Fluid Control business led by WECO/Chiksan flow line products and our Well Service Pumps.
Fluid Control sales were also up sequentially over a seasonally strong fourth quarter.
As John mentioned we're continuing to see strong orders from the pressure pumping market and we are expanding capacity.
Energy Processing generated operating profit of $44 million.
The first quarter margin remained above 19% helped by a favorable resolution of a lawsuit.
Last quarter we indicated expectations that the full year margin for the segment would be in the range of 17% to 18%.
In that guidance we anticipated the mix between Fluid Control and the other Processing businesses would decline from the fourth quarter run rate.
We continue to expect our other Processing businesses Loading Measurement and Material Handling to increase throughout the year.
But with the growth we're seeing in Fluid Control the impact and margins will not be as great.
Consequently we are now expecting margins to be in the range of 18% to 19% for the full year.
Total inbound orders for Energy Processing reached $267 million up 48% from the prior-year's first quarter.
The improvement was led by Fluid Control but all the other businesses contributed to that increase.
Backlog ended the quarter at $342 million.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $8.4 million.
We expect to average closer to $10 million per quarter for the remainder of the year.
Other expense net was $8.2 million.
This amount was reduced by lower pension costs in the quarter.
We expect this expense item to average about $8 million to $9 million per quarter subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the rest of the year.
Our first quarter tax rate of 20.9% was impacted by a $7.3 million tax benefit that we talked about last quarter and that's associated with an international tax holiday.
We're narrowing our full year tax rate guidance to a range of 30% to 31% for the full year.
Capital spending in the quarter was $41 million primarily directed towards our Energy Production businesses.
Capital expenditures for both production and processing should come in greater than this in coming quarters and put us well above the $200 million mark for the full year.
At the end of the quarter we had a net debt position of $45 million down only slightly from $48 million at year end.
It was comprised of $377 million of cash and $422 million of debt.
We averaged 243.8 million shares -- diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
Overall our outlook for 2011 is still very positive.
In production we expect another strong year in subsea growth but realize that some of the large inbound orders originally scheduled for late this year are likely to move into 2012.
Activity is starting to materialize again in the Gulf of Mexico but the pace is unpredictable and it'll likely be 2012 before we start to see significant growth in orders from that region.
As the year progresses into the second half and our subsea projects advance we expect subsea revenue to increase with the more rapid progress on our projects and for our margins to increase also.
Our Surface Wellhead business should improve from the first quarter and benefit from continued growth in North America.
Additionally we expect our strong international businesses to improve throughout the remainder of the year.
In Energy Processing Fluid Control is looking stronger than we originally expected.
With our capacity expansions coming on later this year our ability to meet our customers' demands will continue to improve.
We also expect our Measurement Material Handling and Loading Systems businesses to follow their normal pattern of growth as the year goes on and contribute at greater levels during the coming quarters.
Summing that all up our current guidance for 2011 diluted earnings per share is $1.60 to $1.70 and essentially equivalent to our pre-split guidance of $3.20 to $3.40.
That concludes our prepared remarks and operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brad Handler of Crédit Suisse.
I guess I could just ask you to expand please on your commentary about the stage of projects.
Obviously you used POC [percentage-of-completion] so you're making some assumptions about the profitability associated with those projects which would direct to the lower margins.
Or at least that's sort of the natural inference so perhaps you could speak to why it sounds like that's not quite true.
Brad this is John.
I'll start the conversation then let Bill fill in.
What we're saying is the number of projects that we received many of them about the same time they're in their early stages of development which is mostly design engineering which drives the percentage of complete numbers fairly low until we get to the mid-cycle or later cycle of those projects when raw material is received another part is received and then the percent complete starts to go up.
We expect that to happen in the second half.
So in the second half our revenue for Subsea businesses will be substantially higher than it was in the first half and we'll get leverage from that which will drive the margins for Subsea higher in the second half than they are in the first half.
I'll let Bill add to that.
Yes Brad.
On our projects and our POC accounting we account for a project at the same margin throughout its life.
But what happened in the first quarter is again as John mentioned we had so many projects early in their stage that we didn't incur a lot of costs and therefore didn't incur as much revenue as you might expect.
Now why did that lower margins? Well let me back up a minute and say the Subsea business for 2011 is really sized for $3.3 billion in sales in terms of staffing and SAR expense.
And as you know we have most of the backlog to enable us to reach that revenue number.
But we had lower sales in the first half due to early stage due to some seasonality.
Actually our gross margins on projects are on budget on the budget that will allow us to hit the 12% to 13%.
But we had some under-absorption of manufacturing overhead in the first quarter because of the lower revenue amounts and we had some higher expenses associated with bidding for the large number of projects that are out there in award.
So consequently our margins in Q1 were lower than our average -- we think our average for the full year and of course last year.
So as our sales increase during the year assuming we've maintained the same gross margins and SAR [stock appreciation right] expenses are under control our margins in subsea should increase allowing us to hit the 12% to 13% margin for the full year.
So obviously that means we're going to have margins that are going to be higher in the second half of the year materially higher than the first half.
Right okay.
I have to admit I had not thought about sort of the other absorption issues.
I'd always thought of POC as that consistent margin profile so that's interesting.
If we stick with that then there's obviously been a conversation that's run several quarters about very high margins that you had realized over the last couple of years say.
How does what you're talking about in terms of getting back to that absorption level so what kind of margins -- you're guiding towards margins that are back into approaching the mid-teens I think.
I haven't run the math you can correct me but it would presumably have to approach the mid-teens so back to kind of high levels where you were.
What is that saying about kind of your outlook the position the potential for margins even further out as we start to get into '12 since you're starting from such a high base once the projects are in full swing? Before I answer that let me just kind of complete the story on the first quarter margins.
Surface also hurt us pretty significantly in the quarter.
We had a change in sales mix which we had anticipated.
North America grew very nicely in line with the rig count.
But our International business as you know is larger and it's actually more profitable than our Domestic business.
And so we got hurt a little bit on sales mix there and we had some operational issues in Surface that are expected to diminish as the year goes on not onetime but certainly items that can be controlled.
And we had some growth initiatives.
We're investing in frac assets.
We're investing in some additional training and some other assets.
So the Surface business also hurt us pretty -- I mean for its size pretty significantly in the first quarter.
But again we expect that to reverse throughout the remainder of the year.
So both those things impacted the first quarter margins.
Now John to answer your other question yes as we get to the end of the year we expect in order to average 12% to 13% we're probably going to have to have margins above 13% at some quarter.
Right okay.
So yes the project mix anyway is a supportive.
I understand your comment about Surface but the project mix is as supportive of subsea margins where they have been in recent quarters for now right? That's still where the project mix takes you to in terms of profitability it sounds like? Yes we should get to the 12% to 13% range for the full year.
Got it.
Well I'll let others probe more in terms of the Q1 issues.
Thanks.
I'll turn it back.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob MacKenzie of FBR.
I'll depart from the first quarter results and ask a more perspective question.
John I think you mentioned you expect Congro to be awarded this year.
Can you update us kind of on the status of what that may entail the dollar opportunity there and other subsea processing projects that may have come on the radar screen in the past couple of months? Rob the Congro project I think the significance of the Congro project is it's another subsea Processing project to add to the list that keeps growing and it's in Brazil.
So when you think about Petrobras and what they're doing with Marlim before that what they did Jubarte and now Congro it's the significance although it's an important project I think it'd be in the maybe $100 million range or something like that.
But the real significance of Congro is that we're gaining traction on subsea processing projects.
So that's what we're excited about is that these projects are being named and it looks like we're gaining traction in the industry's acceptance of this technology.
Congro uses a little different technology than some of the other systems both in terms of separation and boosting and our understanding from Petrobras is that it will be awarded this year.
Great.
Are there any other processing projects that are moving up on the calendar that we should be aware of? Well I think we've said this before that if you look out the next 2 years you get close to 10 named subsea projects they of course will move around.
But that's almost double of what we saw just a couple of years ago.
So I don't know.
Congro’s obviously one.
Cascade Phase 2 is a repeat.
That's been moved down into the next year but that will go ahead.
There's a West Africa project with Total a boosting project that should go ahead this year.
Eventually there'll be more Marlim projects next year.
So I think the list remains largely the same but certainly isn't shrinking.
And again Congro is again another one that looks like it's going to go forward which is what encourages us about subsea processing.
Okay.
Thanks.
And if I can switch to Marlim.
You just mentioned the possibility of incremental orders on that.
Did I hear you correctly? Well I think the belief is within Petrobras that this is technology that helps them deal with the severe water cut issues they have on many of their subsea wells.
So the idea is that Marlim technology which is a pilot we need to consider it as a pilot once it gets in the water and used by Petrobras and get comfortable with the technologies that they'll apply that to their other wells.
It's hard to predict the timing of that but surely Petrobras' intention is to take this technology and use it on many of their older wells with high water cut.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And I guess my last question is that some of the gas projects in the Far East.
Can you update us on Prelude and some of those other projects that are being talked about? Sure Rob.
I think this is where we're really encouraged with the subsea activity.
Typically in North West Shelf gas projects in Asia there'd be 1 every 2 years by Woodside or maybe Chevron Gorgon.
But now as we look this year we've got Prelude which looks very much on schedule to be awarded this year.
Wheatstone is on schedule to be awarded this year.
So that's 2 that are pretty firm this year and then impacts Ichthus [ph] which has moved -- it's moved a lot.
But now it looks like it's proceeding because the tender documents are out and are being submitted so that'd be -- if those all happen this year that would be 3 major gas subsea gas projects in Australia versus 1 every couple of years.
So that's pretty exciting that that market is growing as many people forecasted.
Great thanks.
I'll let someone else have a turn.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell of Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> John I'd just like to first echo your comments about Peter for an outstanding job and wish him the best here going forward.
First question is can you provide a little bit more color on bidding in general on subsea projects John? How competitive is it? Has it significantly worsened on certain types of projects? I mean not yourself but I hear that certain companies that were looking to replace their backlog are bidding in many cases some significant discounts on some of the projects out there.
Right.
I mentioned that Jim somewhat in my earlier remarks.
We're in a recovery stage for the industry.
In 2009 there were only 5 subsea projects that were awarded.
Everybody wore down their backlog.
It was no different for us.
Last year we were successful in rebuilding backlog which we were pleased to do.
But the other suppliers didn't and they continued to work down their backlog.
So it's just understandable that it's probably more important now that they rebuild their backlog as quickly as they can.
A lot of the major projects that are being tendered in 2011 are towards the back end of the year.
So we'd expect as the products many of the ones I mentioned like Wheatstone Angina [ph] Ichthus [ph] that'll all be tendered later this year that there would be a lot of competitive intensity as the other suppliers rebuild their backlog.
We've seen that in some of the big projects that have bid over the last year.
So we have to get deeper into the year when these major projects are bid.
We expect them to be fairly competitive while people rebuild their backlogs.
And then as that happens which will be later this year and into early next year with backlogs built then we'll see some of that pricing pressure come off which is why we expect pricing to improve in 2012 once these major projects are awarded.
But the big ones which we know are the big West Africa projects that will be bid and the ones I just mentioned a little bit earlier the Wheatstone Project and Ichthus [ph] which will be large projects bid this year.
LLC</strong> And you expect that those projects will be bid very competitively? Yes because they're the first big projects that come up for some of these companies that are anxious to rebuild their backlog and they're tendered projects.
There are other good-sized projects that aren’t tendered maybe they've got an incumbent and they’re direct award but these are tendered where we'd expect 2 3 maybe even 4 suppliers to all bid on those projects.
LLC</strong> Second question John as you look at your business that’s now covered under frame agreements going forward and now with the BP win as you look at your progression of orders going forward and assuming a certain market share what percentage of your future orders do you think could be covered by frame agreements? Well future depends on the mix of these huge projects that are tendered.
They're going to swing any particular quarter but I appreciate the question.
If you look at our first quarter inbound which we were excited to get close to that $1 billion particularly when there was no major project.
Of that almost $1 billion that we inbound for subsea over 40% of it came from us either being an incumbent or from an alliance partner.
And between getting $1 billion in inbound of relatively small projects and then having such a high percentage be from our incumbency or being alliance or frame agreement partner is really encouraging to us because not only does it mean that we can get -- we're on track for the possibly $4 billion of inbound for this year.
But the margin pressure when you're an incumbent or a frame agreement partner is a heck of a lot different than when you're intensely competitively bidding to fill your backlog on a $500 million project.
So we're encouraged and you're right.
The addition of our global BP frame agreement just adds more business in that frame agreement category.
LLC</strong> Good okay.
Thank you John.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Glacine [ph] of Simmons &amp; Company.
Talking about subsea inbound and reflection of projects continuing to get delayed and the competitive dynamics we had previously thought that we could get as high as $4 billion in subsea inbound this year.
Where do you think that stands today? Is that closer to $3.5 billion? Well we think the $4 billion is still possible.
But a number of projects which I alluded to that have moved from late 2011 into early 2012 that obviously makes it more difficult and if more major projects that are in 2011 if they happen to move out that'll clearly make it more difficult and then we have still uncertainty in the Gulf of Mexico.
So that's our challenge.
But then you look at the first quarter and we hit almost $1 billion without a major project and we're encouraged.
So I would say that the $4 billion is still possible.
Clearly more difficult.
But we're encouraged by the first quarter results.
Now if you want to look the next 12 months out and pick up those few projects that moved from fourth quarter to first quarter then the $4 billion looks very realistic.
Okay.
And then what is your sense as to -- Quest is forecasting a 20% improvement to about 450 trees awarded this year.
I know that typically you guys prefer to look at it on a dollar basis.
But just wondering is that a tenable number? Or do you think it'll come in less than that based on the aforementioned project delays? Well I think Quest has the same issue I do on the $4 billion.
I mean if the major projects stay in 2011 then we're good.
If they move into early 2012 it's a little tougher.
Since we're just talking everything about strictly about calendar year but yes the number we don't have the -- I mean Quest hasn't published the number of trees for the quarter.
But we think it'll be almost 100 trees which would be on track for around 400 or so.
But you're right if some of those really big projects slip into early 2012 then it will be hard to achieve that but I'm not sure if that matters.
If you look over a 12 to 15-month period and you got to 400-plus subsea trees I think that says the same thing about the growth of the market.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson of JPMorgan.
John question about kind of your outlook on the subsea market.
Let’s just beat the pricing argument to death if we can.
How much do you need the Gulf of Mexico to come back to start seeing pricing pickup? I mean the Gulf of Mexico's typically been a pretty big onesie twosie market.
How are you thinking about that over the next 12 months? How much is in your projections and how much do you need that to come back to start seeing pricing pick up globally? Yes that's a good question.
I mean the Gulf of Mexico is important but I think it's the international markets that's really going to drive the pricing.
That's where the big projects are.
That's what in the near term is going to fill the backlogs of all the suppliers and that'll get them comfortable with higher pricing levels.
So I think the Gulf of Mexico helps.
But frankly with these big projects there’s -- in the next 12 to 18 months there's $7 billion to $8 billion of major subsea projects very few to be awarded very few of them in the Gulf of Mexico.
That's what has to happen for pricing to improve.
But clearly the Gulf of Mexico helps.
The only other thing I might mention about the Gulf of Mexico Dave is that the majors really haven't slowed up too much.
As you know I think in the fourth quarter we picked up some fairly good-sized orders from Shell.
Exxon is proceeding with their plans with Julia and Hadrian.
BP has got plans.
Chevron of course is proceeding with Jackson [ph].
So the majors are proceeding with the project developments in the Gulf of Mexico including even some awards.
It's the independents like you suggested the onesie twosies that we really need to come back and that's what’s uncertain.
But I don't think it represents a huge part of the global market which would drive pricing improvement.
I do want to mention that we have a great position with the independents in the Gulf of Mexico.
So it's very helpful for us if the independents are able to come back and hopefully that will happen as these permits -- number of permits approved increases.
Great.
Thanks John.
And also just kind of moving over to your Processing segment.
We're hearing frac pumps are just in very very tight supply out there.
Bill was talking about some of the expansion that you guys are doing there.
Can you talk to us a little bit about what's going on in that part of your business? I assume you guys are running full out right now.
Is that true? How long does it take -- if somebody's to place an order today how long is it taking? And kind of give us a sense kind of what percentage are you expanding your kind of manufacturing capacity.
I'm talking specifically about the frac pumps.
I'll let Bob give a lot of details.
But as we said we're increasing capacity.
And you're right we're running flat out.
We're taking advantage of our manufacturing capacity around the world with other businesses.
And so to support the workload on frac pumps we've been using our machine tools around the world which has really been helpful.
But the capacity additions will give us dedicated capacity to support that product line.
But I'll let Bob give you some more details on capacity.
Yes let me just stick with the capacity expansion for a second.
We expect to see some of the capacity additions that we've invested in beginning to show up in early third quarter which is going to contribute to higher throughput and reduce some of the lead times.
You ask about lead times.
They're still running about 12 months.
Demand for frac pumps continues to be very strong.
Service companies are working that equipment very hard out there with these multistage fracs.
To give you an idea of kind of how it's going for us our Q1 shipments were 45% of the total shipments we made in 2010.
So in the first quarter alone we've seen a significant uptick in the amount of shipments we're making.
Obviously on the kind of specific numbers about capacity our organization works pretty hard to get that competitive intelligence from our competitors.
So I'd really prefer not to make it so easy on them by giving it out publicly.
But obviously our capacity expansion has been targeted to meet our growth and share expectations over the next 2 to 3 years.
So we think we're in good shape.
We've got to get it online begins in early third quarter and that capacity expansion will extend through -- into first quarter of 2012.
That's great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead of RBC.
LLC</strong> This is actually Justin Sander calling on behalf of Kurt.
Just wanted to follow up with a question on the Energy Processing margins looking at 18% to 19% outlook for the full year.
Can you give us a little more insight on how much is pricing power how much cost creep you're seeing what are the dynamics there as far as being able to take price versus cost coming out? Well we've averaged over 19% the last 2 quarters and that's driven largely by the mix of Fluid Control versus some of the other businesses.
And as we go forward through the remainder of the year what we expect is the other businesses being Loading Measurement and Material Handling will increase in their size and they carry a little bit lower margin.
So we're giving guidance between 18% and 19%.
Now in terms of cost pressures we really aren't seeing a lot of cost pressures yet.
Fluid Control is just running flat out.
We've seen some price increases there not a lot but some.
And margins have done about what we expected in all those businesses and we continue to expect that for the full year.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then just another follow-up on the talking around the subsea margins.
I understand that the operating leverage in the business and the volume will drive the margins up in the back half of the year.
But looking from a pricing standpoint as you kind of move margins up in the back half of the year from a gross margin standpoint given the pricing dynamics would you expect gross margins to stay where they are right now? Or would you expect them to maybe fall down even a little bit further but then get the benefit from the higher volumes? The gross margins increased a little bit as we go through the year not much.
Most of the increase in margin is a leverage if you will and Surface coming back to normal operating rates -- normal margin rates.
LLC</strong> Got it okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer of Global Hunter.
LLC</strong> I just want to get a tiny bit more granular on your projects and how you flow them through for your revenue recognition and how it affects your margins.
So I guess my question is really during the early stage engineering do you recognize revenues at all or does it start when you get into a plant? And how do you recognize associated costs when you get your raw materials in et cetera? So I can try and work the projects through the model for the margin progression.
Well good luck on that model progression Brian.
But when we start a project it's primarily engineering.
And engineering may be 10% to 20% of the total project costs.
But the initial say 3 months of a project maybe even 6 months are almost entirely engineering.
And therefore you're only accumulating costs of at most 10% to 15% of the whole project.
And so consequently we recognize 10% to 15% of the revenue from the project over that time period.
Then we begin to receive raw material completed sub assemblies.
And our costs really begin to escalate during that time period when we're receiving equipment.
And so our costs escalate and consequently our progress and revenues increase.
And then at the end of the project when the assembly in test we're back again so it's primarily labor and the cost accumulation is relatively slow.
So we have kind of an S-curve if you will for the total cost of each project.
We're executing over 100 projects at any point in time but there is a maturity issue here.
And given the amount of backlog that we received -- orders I should say that we received in 2010 in the early stage of those we've got a lot more engineering content and  we're not receiving as much material and subassemblies as we would normally receive during an average quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Do you recognize some margin from those projects during the engineering or you recognize some but do you hold some back? No.
What we do is we say well see our average margin's going to be 20% 25% on this project.
And regardless of whether it's engineering receipt of raw material and what have you we recognize that margin based on the amount of costs that we're incurring.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
That's very helpful.
And second question I wanted to address the stock buyback and kind of what your thoughts are going forward on that where you expected some this quarter and just wanted to see what the plans are in the buyback? Well our plans are not changed.
In terms of using cash we want to use -- our first priority is to use cash to support the businesses.
And this year we're going to spend over $200 million perhaps as much as $250 million on capital expenditures to support the Production business to expand the Fluid Control business.
And we've also got some capital that we except to spend in the Surface business in North America.
So that's the first priority.
Second priority is acquisitions.
We haven't had many recently.
But we're constantly looking for acquisitions.
And particularly I think you'll see us buy some smaller technology-oriented companies to fill in technology that we think we need for our subsea Processing area.
And then finally if there's any excess cash we use it to repurchase stock.
And as you saw we really didn't generate any excess cash in the first quarter.
It was consumed in some working capital consumed in capital expenditures.
But we do have $5 million authorization outstanding and the stock repurchase program is still in effect.
It just didn't buy many shares in the first quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Great answer.
That's my 2.
Back to you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte of Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> It's Joseph Triepke here on behalf of Michael LaMotte.
A quick one on orders if I may.
It looks like revs per tree for 1Q inbound came in at about $13 million.
Looked a bit light.
Just wondering is that a function of mix with more trees than manifolds and controls or is there's some pricing component there? Yes.
Well it's really function of -- it does look light and it's because we booked 32 trees from Petrobras.
These are trees that don't have tree-mounted controls on them.
They’re relatively inexpensive and there's no manifolds or subsea system equipment associated with it.
So that drove the number down.
If you were to back out the Petrobras numbers our revenue per tree would be $20 million to $26 million per tree.
So it was all skewed by the big expansion to our lot 2 award that we got from Petrobras.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful thanks.
Then just as a quick follow-up there's been some talk of sensor installations on DOPs post-Macondo.
I was wondering if there's any such talk going on about monitoring of subsea trees and whether or not sensors could become an add-on feature that could help boost revenue per tree at some point in the future.
No there hasn't been any change to the specification of the trees.
LLC</strong> Thanks guys.
I'll turn it back.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Hillary [ph] of Tudor Pickering Holt.
I just had a couple of questions on the Surface business.
I guess first on orders is there a seasonal component to that? Just curious it was a little bit lower than it's been in the past couple of quarters in what I'd see as an expanding market.
So just curious to get some color around that.
Yes this is Bob.
Bill talked about the fact that our international order intake's been a bit light though there are a number of major projects out there particularly in the Middle East and Asia.
In Asia it's Indonesia it's Malaysia and so strong opportunities coming.
But we have had some timing impact on the inbound order rate which is what has driven some of the underperformance of the Surface Wellhead business in the first quarter.
We're a little light on volume on international.
It's offset by a stronger North America but we expect some of these major orders to book in the fairly near term here which will give us a good opportunity to get the Surface business back on track second half.
That's helpful.
And then maybe an analogous question on the Processing business.
You talked about the frac pump capacity expansion really hitting in the third quarter.
We've kind of run a couple of quarters in a row with big orders and quite a bit lower revenue.
Do we kind of stay at this level until you get to the second half of the year or do we see some improvements in the second quarter? Well we're going to see some steady improvements in the Processing business in total because we're seeing much better inbound in the non-Fluid Control Processing business coupled with the continued strength in Fluid Control.
So the Loading Systems business is starting to see the LNG orders hit the books and that's going to benefit our shipments in the second half.
And then like manner [ph] Measurement in particular continues to track very closely to the kind of major project activity worldwide as they build pipeline infrastructure and again we're teeing the business up for a very strong second half.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of William Conroy of Pritchard Capital.
LLC</strong> Really just wanted -- it's back to the subsea inbound that you saw in Q1 in the absence of any major projects and just wanted to get your thoughts on the sustainability of that level of business that falls below that major project threshold as we push through the year.
Well first of all what's included in that number is our customer support or aftermarket business and that's holding up really well even in the Gulf of Mexico.
So that's not a small piece and we'd expect that to continue.
Clearly the $1 billion none for major projects is unusual.
I'm not sure that that can be kept up but it's certainly encouraging that there's a lot of smaller projects out there that are happening.
And I think they'll add to our ability to get to the $4 billion.
But when we look at the pieces a big portion of it came from our partners where we already have an existing relationships.
They're not tendered.
They're just add-ons to existing work that we've done for them.
So although it was unusual to have -- I think unusual to have almost $1 billion with no major project included I think a lot of it is sustainable although I think that's on the high side.
LLC</strong> That's helpful.
Maybe just to follow up on the tail end of that answer.
In terms of the add-ons and the pieces do you have any sense that that pipeline is still relatively full? Or do you feel like maybe some of that got drained to the extent there's a pipeline of orders or potential orders out there? No I don't think it's strange at all.
I think you have to go back to the longer-term outlook and capital spending in deepwater is increasing.
The number of rig counts are being added.
The number of deepwater rigs is being added is increasing.
So I think it all supports continued growth whether it's the major projects these smaller call-offs and I don't think it's drained.
LLC</strong> That's very helpful.
Thank you so much.
Your final question comes from the line of Geoff Kieburtz of with Weeden &amp; Co.
LP</strong> This is Chris Enright in for Geoff.
Just a couple of quick questions.
The inbound subsea orders are margins similar to the outbound the orders you're executing currently? Yes.
I think Bill referenced that.
The margins on the first quarter inbound were as good as what's existing in our backlog.
The good thing about subsea is we've got such visibility we can see all the margins in our backlog and really for the next year and what we inbounded was -- the margins were solid.
LP</strong> And a quick follow-up.
How that progresses how that changes is that a function of how much of the order flow comes from large projects? As you said it might be more competitive versus orders that would come from either follow-on orders or orders from frame agreement direct awards? Yes that is a great question.
Since we've rebuilt our backlog and the $1 billion that we entered in the first quarter is certainly even more helpful we're in the position to target the projects that are important for us strategically or that have margins that are acceptable to us.
So we're in the position to I think to add to our backlog carefully depending on how competitively intense these major projects are.
But you're correct.
We're going to have to navigate through the pricing of these major projects which will be tricky throughout this year.
But again we are certainly -- we're encouraged that a large percentage of our inbound came from frame agreements or incumbent position because it doesn't have that pricing intensity.
LP</strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
This concludes our first quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our second quarter 2011 conference call on July 26 at 9 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Operator you may end the call.
Thank you again for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the FMC Technologies' Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] In the event of technical difficulties during this call we will post updates at www.fmctechnologies.com/earnings.
Thank you.
Your host is Brad Alexander Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current views and assumptions regarding future events future business conditions and our outlook based on currently available information these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
I refer you to our disclosures regarding risk factors in our SEC filings.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies’ President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our second quarter 2011 conference call.
With me today are Bill Schumann our CFO; and Bob Potter our Executive Vice President.
I'll share with you some highlights from the quarter Bill will provide specifics on our financial performance and outlook for the second half of 2011 and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
First the results for the quarter.
Earnings were $0.39 per diluted share.
Subsea performance was largely on track as sales increased 16% sequentially with growth expected to continue through the remainder of the year.
However overall Energy Production performance was negatively impacted as our Surface Wellhead business continued to experience execution issues.
Energy Processing continued to perform at record levels during the quarter as Fluid Control benefited from the strength of the North America pressure pumping market.
We recorded $1.5 billion in orders during the second quarter of which $939 million was for the subsea systems and included 20 subsea trees.
Subsea backlog now stands at a record level $4.2 billion.
Total company revenue was $1.2 billion.
Subsea revenue for the quarter was $795 million reflecting the growth of activity in inbound orders booked over the past several quarters.
We expect our subsea sales to reach $3.3 billion for the full year as the conversion of subsea backlog accelerates in the second half of the year.
Surface Wellhead revenue was up 13% from the second quarter of 2010 driven by strong North American activity.
It fell short of our expectations.
The international execution issues we discussed during the first quarter call continued to weigh on our results.
We expect international sales to improve in the second half based on orders received in the second quarter and we also expect execution to improve.
Fluid Control delivered record sales and earnings again as demand for both our WECO/Chiksan flowline products and our Well Service Pumps continues at unprecedented levels.
Results in our other processing businesses grew as expected but did not dilute margins as Fluid Control continued to represent more of the business than anticipated.
As we continue to see the growth of our overall business entering the second half of 2011 we feel confident maintaining our full year earnings guidance of $1.60 to $1.70 per diluted share.
We believe subsea activity will continue to grow as oil and gas fundamentals remain strong and the major E&amp;P operators around the world stay committed to deepwater projects.
Over the next 3 years the industry will see more than 70 deepwater drilling rigs enter the market a 27% increase from where we started 2011.
In the second quarter alone a net of 11 new deepwater rigs were announced.
Global capital spending by our customers is expected to grow at 15% from 2011 to 2012.
Preawards in 2012 could increase by as much as 50% while the major project awards could more than double.
Additionally in 2012 we expect to see the expansion of the subsea processing market.
As we see the market now 2012 should be a very strong year for subsea awards.
We continue to demonstrate our market-leading position by inbounding more than $900 million in subsea orders.
More than 50% of this total relates to frame agreements with our partners.
In the first half of 2011 we inbounded approximately $1.9 billion of subsea orders and we believe we can reach $4 billion for the full year.
Let me now talk about 2Q orders we received during the second quarter.
Shell's Prelude and Petrobras' Congro Corvina.
The Shell Prelude project off the coast of Australia includes a subsea production system to support the world's first floating LNG terminal.
Through our exclusive frame agreement we received a direct award from Shell that we will supply 7 large bore production trees along with production manifolds subsea control systems and other related equipment.
Ultimately this project will play a significant role in supplying Asia with the natural gas it needs.
The Petrobras Congro Corvina project represents both the industry's and our 6 subsea separation projects.
We're supplying 2 systems to perform gas liquid separation for a total of 20 wells in Brazil.
Subsea separation and manifold systems that comprise Congro Corvina result in the decommissioning of a platform as these new systems perform all the necessary activities on the seabed.
Using Shilling Robotics technology we were able to eliminate multiple actuators and associated controls allowing us to provide a cost-effective solution for Petrobras.
Regarding the Gulf of Mexico only 7 new permits have been issued for the Gulf of Mexico since our last call.
This slow pace has had a negative effect on our aftermarket and equipment orders.
Major operators like Chevron Exxon Mobil BP and Shell are proceeding with some of their projects even though they have yet to receive permits.
Many of the independents however are taking a more cautious approach.
Our Energy Processing business continues to be driven by the exceptional performance of Fluid Control.
As our flowline well service pump capacity expansion comes online over the next 12 months we look forward to capitalizing on our customers' growing demands.
North America shale market is driving the growth in Fluid Control is also positively impacting our North America surface results as the demand for our frac assets and surface wellheads in this market continue to grow.
In summary our market-leading subsea orders were $939 million in the second quarter and are on track to reach $4 billion.
Subsea revenue in the quarter grew sequentially by more than $100 million and is on path for $3.3 billion for the year.
Fluid Control pushed our processing business to its largest quarter in history and we're adding capacity.
Therefore we're well positioned for a strong second half of the year.
Bill will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter.
Thanks John.
Energy Production sales for the second quarter were $968 million an increase of 18% from last year's second quarter and 13% from the first quarter of 2011.
Subsea grew both year-over-year and sequentially.
As discussed during last quarter's call we have a steep revenue growth curve in front of us to reach $3.3 billion in full year subsea revenue.
Our second quarter subsea sales of $795 million keep us on course to achieve this target.
This is also consistent with the rapid increase in revenue we expected as our projects proceed through the initial engineering phases.
Surface sales were above the second quarter of 2010 as North American sales increased but sequentially sales were flat.
The majority of the issues that impacted the first quarter results continued including both delayed shipments and unfavorable mix on our international markets.
Energy Production generated operating profit of $97 million in the quarter down to 25% from the prior year quarter primarily due to lower margins on both subsea projects and surface.
Sequentially profit increased 18% consistent with the increase in subsea revenue.
Margins were 10.1% in the quarter.
For the full year we now expect these margins to be between 11.5% and 12.5%.
This decline is primarily due to the slower-than-anticipated recovery of our Surface Wellhead business which has had a greater impact on our full year expectations than we thought last quarter.
Additionally in subsea our project costs in the second quarter were higher than we expected.
Both of these businesses should improve in the second half of 2011.
Inbound orders in Energy Production were $1.2 billion in the quarter including subsea orders of $939 million and record orders for our Surface Wellhead business.
Backlog now stands at a record $4.5 billion including a record subsea backlog of $4.2 billion.
Energy Processing sales were $263 million up 37% from the prior year quarter and 16% from the first quarter.
The year-over-year increase was driven by record sales in our Fluid Control business led by WECO/Chiksan flowline products and Well Service Pumps.
Sequentially almost all the business units in the segment experienced double-digit growth.
Energy Processing generated operating profit of $54 million second quarter margin exceeded 20% as Fluid Control continues to expand.
The North American market is still growing at levels beyond what we forecasted.
Barring some unanticipated interruption to this pattern we now expect full year margins in the range of 19% to 20% for this segment.
Total inbound orders for Energy Processing reached $340 million up 51% from last year's second quarter.
Majority of the increase came from Fluid Control.
Backlog ended the quarter at $421 million.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $10.6 million.
We expect to average about $10 million per quarter for the rest of the year.
Other expense net was $2 million.
This amount was less than expected due to some foreign currency gains of about $4 million during the quarter and lower medical expenses.
Our second quarter tax rate was 30.9%.
We should average approximately 31% for the remainder of the year.
Capital spending this quarter was $62 million primarily directed towards our Energy Production businesses.
For the full year our capital spending will range between $200 million and $250 million related to our capacity expansions for facilities in Brazil and Asia Pacific for subsea and in the U.S.
for Fluid Control.
Additionally we're adding frac assets to our Surface Wellhead business primarily in the U.S.
At the end of the second quarter we had net debt position of $45 million.
It was comprised of $428 million of cash and $473 million of debt.
We averaged 243.8 million shares outstanding in the quarter.
Midway through 2011 our subsea business is performing consistent with what we expected at the beginning of the year.
Our surface business has underperformed however but we're confident that this will reverse as we expand our operations in North American land and our traditionally strong international franchise recovers principally on the strength of orders that we received in the second quarter.
In Energy Processing Fluid Control continues to grow at exceptional levels.
With our capacity expansions beginning to come online our ability to capitalize on increasing customer demands will improve.
We're now also starting to see our measurement and material handling and loading systems businesses begin to grow and expect them to contribute at greater levels in the second half of the year.
Our guidance for 2011 diluted earnings per share remains at $1.60 to $1.70 per share.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> John Surface Wellhead operationally what are you going to change to address the issues you suffered in the second quarter? Yes well thanks for bringing that up Joe.
I mean the less than expectations on the margins for production were driven largely by Surface.
And we mentioned the execution issues in the first call which resulted in delayed shipments.
We made a lot of improvements and we expect the execution issues to be largely behind us in the second half.
The other thing that happened is and we also mentioned this in the first call was the timing of new inbound for Surface.
We'd expected to get the new inbound in earlier so we could convert it to revenue and profits earlier this year.
We've now received those orders and if you kind of back out the subsea revenue versus or subsea orders versus production orders you can see Surface inbound was almost record levels.
And so we finally got the inbound and now our challenge is to convert it to revenue in the balance of the year.
So we're pretty confident now that we have the inbound that we can convert it and the Surface performance will improve.
The third thing and we mentioned this also in the first call is we're ramping up in our North America frac business for Surface and that includes expenses training expenses setting up new bases.
And those are largely onetime investments that we're making to support the growth in frac and those will come down over time as well.
So those are the 3 areas of Surface execution that we're pretty confident will improve in the second half.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay sounds good.
And John you're still targeting $4 billion in inbounds for subsea for the year.
How many second half major awards say the $150 million plus type are you anticipating to hit that number? Again good question.
We're pretty confident in the $4 billion but it does depend on at least one or so major awards being made before the end of the year.
The other thing is we announced the Shell Prelude project but we didn't inbound the full amount in the second quarter.
So we expect that -- the balance of that to be inbound in the second half.
And then of course we're planning on the smaller projects from our frame agreement partners that contributed so much to the high inbound in the first and second quarter to continue in the third and fourth.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
So the second quarter inbound number is actually a better number than it appears because you don't have all the Prelude in it? That's correct.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then finally you guys had said that frac pump capacity would come on in the third quarter.
Obviously your inbounds in the processing business are fairly dramatic at this point.
Can you give us an update on your capacity expansion plans and how they're going in Fluid Control right now? Yes we're on schedule.
Most of the capacity additions come in on 2012 but we've been able to accelerate particularly machine tools which we've already started to receive and they'll be operational in the second half of the year which will contribute to our response to growing demand later this year.
But let me ask Bob to make a few additional comments on the capacity additions.
Joe John is right.
We have already begun receiving machine tools some of those are in fact already operational principally devoted to the Well Surface Pump product line.
But one thing that we talk about Well Service Pumps a lot but not to be lost in that is we're also expanding capacity in our Flowline Product line at the same rate.
So again those machine tools that are going into our existing brick-and-mortar are already on the way in.
We should see them early in the second half of the year and they will contribute to our full year results.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Credit Suisse.
Okay well maybe we can -- maybe you can update us on a few of those major projects that presumably are part of your confidence outlook on the subsea side.
You've mentioned -- maybe I can highlight a couple then steer me to or steer us to some others but you've mentioned that Stockman remains a possibility for '11 I think and then I guess a couple of the Australian LNG projects remain somewhat active.
So can you update on your thoughts on those? Well as you know we talked about this almost for the whole year.
A lot of the inbound in 2011 occurs at the very end of the year so there's risk that they slip in fact we're seeing some of that.
Stockman is right on the cusp.
I mean the bids have been submitted they're under evaluation.
It could be awarded this year or because of its nature one of the first major gas pump projects it could slip into early 2012.
So that one could go either way.
Wheatstone is another big one the tendering has all been done.
They're well through the process you'd expect that to occur before the end of the year.
Still a number Ichthus [ph] is another one the bids have been submitted.
But then again this is one that's been delayed in the past.
And because it's so close to the end of the year it could either go into 2011 or slip into 2012.
So those are some of the big ones that are still out there that could occur in 2011 but also risk of going into 2012.
So that's all helpful.
But somehow I think you're trying to signal greater confidence now than you were willing to even very recently.
Is it because of other things that are moving then? Or is it more confidence as it relates to one of those or some mix of those falling this year? Yes well the confidence in 2011 is driven in part by we're almost halfway there in the first half of 2011 without -- and the second quarter I think is representative.
We had no I'll call them a mega award of $300 million $400 million project single project that was inbound in the second quarter yet we almost hit our target of $1 billion.
So we're counting -- and if you look at the details of that it came from very strong aftermarket revenue.
It came a lot from smaller awards from our partners.
And to the extent that that continues and it probably will and then we get the balance of Prelude in the second half we're really just kind of 1 modest-sized project away from hitting our $4 billion.
And if they don't happen at the very end of 2011 it's likely to happen at the very beginning of 2012.
So we're pretty much on target for the $4 billion.
That's where the confidence comes from for 2011.
Now the confidence on 2012 is almost a different matter.
If you look at -- because these projects are slipping some of them have slipped from the end of 2011 into 2012 it really sets 2012 up as a very strong year.
If I look at just the number of projects over $100 million it looks now like maybe there will be 12 to 14 that will be awarded in 2011 which is about the same level we had in 2010.
Then you get to 2012 and that number almost doubles.
And it's evenly distributed throughout the year so they're not all bunched up like they were in 2011 at the very end.
And that's what gives me confidence in the 2012 number being so strong.
That's very helpful color.
Could we spend a few minutes on the subsea margin side? I just want to make sure and forgive me because I've got a couple of calls going on and I was distracted for a couple of minutes there.
But does the subsea project margin -- the subsea margin outlook for you within 2011 has that changed or ultimately is the ramp up as the projects get deeper into them the same as it was 3 months ago? No I think what we've said is that we have the subsea revenue and backlog it's about conversion.
It's about our conversion rate.
It's about absorption and leverage.
I think in the last call we said the margins and backlog were as expected we would say the same is true in the second quarter that the margins and backlog are pretty much just as we expected.
It's the pace at which we convert the backlog to revenue which we did increase our revenue in the second quarter to make our $3.3 billion in sales in the second half we've got to convert it at an even faster rate and that leverage has to take place.
But we also experienced in the second quarter some additional cost that we hadn't anticipated which depressed margins.
But I'll ask Bill to make a few more comments on the margin.
Yes Brad our gross margin on projects in subsea is kind of right on our forecast and right on our budget.
So we think we'll be able to ramp up sales as we progress through these projects in the second half of the year and deliver some pretty attractive margins.
In the second quarter we did have some I'm not going to characterize them as onetime but costs that impacted the quarter a little bit more than we anticipated but really wouldn't have been enough for us to change our guidance.
We changed our guidance based on Surface Wellhead performance.
Okay so in other words you would have caught up or was in the range of catching up in the second half of '11 relative to those performance issues.
Just enough absorption would help take care of that and get your margins back.
So you're sort of in the same place is that the right takeaway? In subsea.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob MacKenzie with FBR Capital Markets.
John can you give us a feeling for how much of your current run rate of orders how much of your orders in 2Q represented the service and support business? Rob it was higher than -- stronger actually than what we experienced in Q1.
I think it represents about 25% of our inbound.
One of the reasons it was up in the second quarter was we booked some new inbound for our Light Well Intervention services.
So that spiked it up a little bit but it was actually pretty healthy in the second quarter.
And the Gulf of Mexico customer support which we expect to be pretty depressed wasn't as bad as we thought.
So we put all that together and had a real strong quarter for customer support like I said about 25% of the total.
Do you expect that to continue in the next couple of quarters a similar ratio? With the exception of the Light Well Intervention inbound because that all comes in lumps so we wouldn't expect that again.
But yes I think maybe it even drops down to 20% but it should be strong.
And then we've got the Gulf of Mexico issue.
But so I'd say the downside from the 25% would be somehow a deterioration in the Gulf of Mexico aftermarket and the loss of this sort of onetime lumpy Light Well Intervention inbound.
So it may take us down to 20%.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And coming back to a separate topic guidance on the process systems margins I mean the guidance implicity -- or implies that margins will fall from that here in that business.
Is that what you intended to communicate and what would drive that? Rob this is Bill.
You're right the average falls.
But what happens is the other processing businesses which if you don't carry as high a margin as Fluid Control become a larger percent of the total.
So it's kind of a mix issue that we're anticipating.
We anticipated the same thing at the end of the first quarter in our first quarter call but what happened was Fluid Control grew significantly in the quarter.
So it's really a mix issue.
It's not a deterioration of profitability.
But by the same token Bill you guys just said that you had a huge inbound for Fluid Control for WECO and the oilfield products the frac-related products there in this quarter.
So why wouldn't that mix continue to improve 2Q to 3Q? Well just to give you an idea the other businesses grew by 18% in the quarter.
And I think the Fluid Control business grew by 15%.
So we kind of expect that to continue in the second half of the year.
And we would expect that the other processing businesses would outgrow Fluid in that time period.
Okay fair enough.
And I'll transition back to subsea again a bit but on the subsea processing.
And obviously you inbounded the Congro-related orders this quarter.
Can you give us a feel for kind of what the next 1 2 or 3 likely inbounds are on the processing front? And as part of that can you give us an update in terms of any change in timing on the installation of the separation from Marlim? Right.
Well there's a couple of more projects that could be -- subsea processing projects that could be awarded in the next couple -- well next 6 months or so.
One is in West Africa for Total another is in the North Sea for Shell.
And I don't want to be too explicit about the timing but those are 2 that would be first up.
And then you get into 2012.
And the good news there's about 7 named projects in 2012 and again they won't all happen and they'll move around.
But the sheer list of subsea processing projects that we've talked about before continues to grow and I'd say they are kind of across the board there.
They're extensions of existing processing projects of subsequent phases.
They're brownfield applications greenfield applications and pretty much across the spectrum of operators and geography.
But the next 2 up are probably with Shell and Total West Africa and the North Sea.
And beyond that there is a healthy list.
Regarding Marlim we're doing the systems integration test now in the third quarter and we're scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter.
And that means start-up as well in 4Q? It should.
I mean that depends on Petrobras' planning.
I don't know about that.
It'll depend on them when they do the installation although we know they're anxious to get that in the water.
But the delivery schedule is fourth quarter.
Okay.
I think on your last call you had mentioned that Petrobras is already contemplating incremental orders for Marlim.
Is there any change to the thinking there? Well yes they're very excited about their technology.
They're anxious to get it in the water and the potential for this technology is significant for the many fields that Petrobras has.
So yes it's clearly their expectation that they'll apply this technology in many more wells.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> It's actually Justin sitting in for Kurt.
I just wanted to follow up on Energy Processing.
The orders in the quarter $340 million were very strong given the constraints from a manufacturing standpoint.
So were there orders booked in the quarter ahead of new capacity coming online? Or should we be looking at when new capacity comes online you should see a ramp in the orders? And then kind of a follow-on to that is has the lead time at all changed between when orders are booked and revenues recognized in Energy Processing? Justin this is Bob.
Well first of all on the lead time question we're starting to see lead times shorten some as we bring new capacity online.
In fact I think it hasn't been that long ago we were talking about having sold out most of 2012.
Now we're going to enter 2012 with about 40% of the capacity for Well Service Pumps in backlog.
So we've begun to extend the capacity like we had intended and therefore lead times are shortening somewhat.
As far as the order rate is concerned the service companies haven't yet begun to book their 2012 CapEx plans but they're close.
We expect to see some of the demand for 2012 released by the major service companies later in the third quarter early fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> Got it okay.
And then if I could just expand a little bit more on the prior questions around subsea processing.
If we're looking at 7 potential projects for 2012 can you guys elaborate a little bit more on what the mix has been in the past between out of total subsea processing has contributed which percentage and how you would expect that to maybe change going forward if processing continues to pick up at this rate? Well I don't think we've given those numbers in the past but to maybe help frame it for you.
If you go back 5 years there was probably 1 subsea processing project every other year.
And the average revenue from a subsea processing project is maybe around $100 million.
And then if you look at the last couple of years we've averaged 2 3 maybe even 4 as they kind of clump together in a particular calendar year subsea processing projects.
So that gets you up to maybe $200 million to $400 million of inbound for the entire industry and although that's mostly been us.
And then you look forward and now I'm saying there 7 named projects in 2012.
They probably won't all happen they typically move around a lot.
But you can get a sense then of how we're going from $100 million every other year to $200 million to $400 million the last couple of years to something much larger than that going forward as the industry adopts this new technology.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Uhlmer with GHS.
LLC</strong> I wanted to kind of hone in a little bit on kind of how you're turning your backlog over.
Presumably as you call off awards that you generated in the quarter do those turn a little bit quicker so that we can see a return to turning it over 25% to 30% of your backlog at any given quarter.
As you've trended down this past quarter in both segments I'm trying to get a handle on how to roll through revenues.
Can you help me out with that? Well first of all how we converted the backlog.
That's complicated because it varies by project and so forth.
But you're on the right track Brian.
If they're are call-offs they're typically coming from partners they're coming from where we're already the incumbent the designs are done.
Maybe we're even using our standard designs for some of these call-offs.
So the lead time for the conversion from inbound is going to be much shorter.
If you take a major EPC contract that includes trees manifolds all the infrastructure which is designed to order you're talking about a much longer period of time.
And conversion is going to be spread over a long period of time and it won't be even.
We've talked about this before that in the early cycle of a major subsea project we're mostly doing engineering.
And based on our percent complete processed we're not going to convert a lot in the early cycle.
But when that raw material and those expensive components start arriving then we start moving real quickly up to the conversion curve.
And then at the very end while we're doing testing it starts to slow down again.
So that varies by major project it's a little hard to predict but you're on the right track.
If they're small orders that are call-offs they're likely to be converted faster than a major EPC project.
LLC</strong> So we could presumably see a decent jump in 3Q and then maybe flatten out for a couple of quarters before we have a big ramp in the back half of '12 based on your ordering flows? Well I think for the second half of this -- I'll let Bill comment on this but the second half of 2011 is driven more by the large projects that we inbounded in 2010 than the shorter-cycle projects that we booked more recently.
Yes I mean to hit our -- we did almost $1.5 billion in the first half in subsea.
And we've got to do about $900 million a quarter in the second half.
And we did $795 million in the second quarter.
So we think we're on track to get there.
But it is a significant increase quarter-over-quarter.
We haven't or I haven't been privy to laying out the schedule for 2012 so I don't know what it's going to look like exactly in terms of conversion.
But 2011 we think it's going to be a little bit higher each quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then rolling into processing similar obviously backlogs building there.
So with the new capacity will start to get the higher percentage churn in 3Q slightly and then back to a more normalized level for your historics in 4Q and on? Well in processing we've got some mix issues.
The Well Service Pump is 9 to 12 months in terms of inbound to delivery.
Flowline is sometimes 2 weeks sometimes a month.
And then some of the other processing businesses like loading systems have longer lead time conversions.
So I think in general with the growth of the Flowline Product lines and the quick conversions you're going to see generally faster turns of backlog in Energy Processing.
But it's a little tricky because of the different businesses that are in that segment.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And my second question should be a simple one.
In general I know you don't want to get into your frame agreements in too specific details.
But in general are your margins higher for your frame agreements and call-off awards than they are for the mega projects and is there an order of magnitude or is it fairly close? Well the whole pricing environment Brian is different because we're coming out of a down cycle and people are rebuilding their backlogs.
When you have a big large tender that's being competitively bid and with multiple suppliers as they try to rebuild their backlog then you're going to have competitive pricing intensity associated with that very large award.
And so in that situation then the frame agreements which are negotiated awards are probably going to be the margins are probably going to be a little more favorable.
The other thing is usually our frame agreements are based on standardization a lot of repeatability.
Our cost position is a lot better and again the margins are probably a little bit better for that reason.
Now obviously as the market moves in a different direction then the tendered projects would probably improve in pricing and might start to look more similar to a frame agreement negotiated price.
So it kind of depends on the market environment.
Right now we're coming out of the downturn so I'd say the frame agreement numbers are better and may approach more equal to tendered projects particularly in 2012 when we definitely expect pricing to improve as all these awards get made in 2012.
The next question comes from the line of Kevin Simpson with Miller Tabak.
LLC</strong> I guess 2 questions.
One maybe first for Bill.
Are you likely to report kind of a back-end loaded second half or more a 4Q that would be more like you used to show materially above the 3Q say several years ago? Or is it going to be more smooth ramp up? Well historically we've always had a big fourth quarter that used to be driven by Fluid Control and subsea.
For whatever reason subsea always had a big fourth quarter.
I think the logic on the big fourth quarter for subsea is reflected in our accounting and the fact that our suppliers want to deliver the product to us in their calendar year.
And if they deliver inventory to us we recorded the cost and then include it as progress on our contracts and consequently recognize revenue.
And I don't think this year is going to be any different from that.
I would expect subsea which is now a larger part of the total to have a big fourth quarter and that would drive the whole company to have a big fourth quarter.
The flowline business I think because of the growth of it I'm not confident that the fourth quarter is going to be much different than the third quarter.
We're kind of flat out and our customers are pretty flat out I think in that business.
But I think it'll be driven by subsea and I think you're right fourth quarter will be larger than the third quarter.
LLC</strong> And processing to some degree Fluid Control function of adding -- capacity adds as such that you're bring them on.
Yes it's not -- I don't think we're going to see much of it.
Actually Bob alluded to this but we're also expanding the flowline capacity.
We may see more flowline capacity come on than well service pump capacity by year end.
So we could see a little there but we'll see some of that in the third quarter too.
LLC</strong> Okay and John the margins in the inbound for 2Q and maybe -- is the trend somewhat towards improvement versus say 1Q or even more important I guess from what you booked last year? Or is it hard to tell with the mix that's coming in? Well the margins that we booked in the second quarter were mostly driven as I said earlier by our frame agreement so they looked more like Q1 which as Bill pointed out were at our expectations.
I think that where we're really going to see the margin change and the pricing change is on some of these very very large projects that are in the process of being tendered.
That's what we need to watch as those get awarded what's the pricing level of those.
So the margins that we put in backlog in the second quarter looked a lot like Q1 and that was driven by our negotiated prices with our frame agreement partners.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one other kind of follow-up.
Beyond the big name projects that are going to go on either side of year end I guess you sound pretty bullish on next year in general on order flow after what's going to be another big year this year and a big year last year.
Are you John assuming that later next year you get more -- I guess 2 markets pre-salt type orders from Petrobras or the other being finally some a step up in Nigeria business which I guess has lagged for political reasons? Well I think you're right.
When you look at 2012 one of the reasons it'll make it such a strong year for subsea awards for the industry is that the expectation that there will be some big numbers for Brazil.
As you know Brazil had their multiyear contracts for their conventional equipment in 2010.
We believe that it's time now for Petrobras to award some more trees for pre-salt.
We've heard from Petrobras that they're considering more multiyear contracts aggregating the requirements for both conventional and pre-salt.
The numbers that we're hearing about are very large so the combination of Petrobras needing to get some more trees on order for pre-salt and this conversation about aggregating the requirements in multiyear contracts if that were to get achieved in 2012 that would certainly contribute to 2012 being a very strong year.
And then the same is true with Nigeria.
We know we've got a big project in Ghana [ph] Erha and so forth.
And these projects which again are largely absent in 2010 and '11 would show up in 2012.
And they would contribute to the strong 2012 numbers.
So you're right.
I think between Brazil and Nigeria and even some more projects in Angola for that matter would definitely contribute to the strong 2012 versus 2011.
Your next question comes from the line of Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Most of mine have been answered.
I guess I'm going to beat the dead horse here on margins a little bit.
If I just do the arithmetic it sounds to me like that the 11.5% to 12.5% guidance for the production side implies kind of a back half exit rate in the 13% to 14.5% range so obviously a pretty big bounce from where we are.
I guess just 2 questions are mechanical or practically are the big changes mix or kind of the pick up off the bottom like in the surface side that you mentioned? And also what is the big difference between the bottom and -- the low end and the high end of that in terms of achieving those? This is John.
The difference between the high end and the low end is going to come for Energy Production is going to come from execution.
We've got the backlog.
We need to convert it the pace at which we convert it converting it without execution issues and higher costs which are going to drive the margin and that includes surface.
Because surface our international business in surface is also a longer-cycle business.
They have the revenue and backlog.
They just need to convert it and we need to convert it without execution issues.
That'll be the difference between the ranges on Energy Production.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So just a little bit more on the surface side.
I want to ask in terms of these execution issues maybe we could get some more specifics in terms of what maybe -- you didn't want to call them onetime costs but maybe what those were.
And kind of what were the execution issues? Was it supply chain-related issues? Was it staffing? Maybe just a little bit more granularity there if possible.
Well I think Bill talked about the 2 big issues.
First of all it was the lack of orders in the first half of the year internationally which really caused us some absorption projects in the international locations.
And then secondly and not to be underestimated is the investment we're making in North America to fuel the growth.
I mean Bill talked about new facilities.
He talked about training.
He didn't touch on the number of people we're hiring.
We're adding significant numbers of people to our service training and apprentice programs all of which are designed to support the growth that we expect to continue to see in North America.
Those are the big items.
Your final question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Credit Suisse.
I think a couple of us have been dancing around the question but I thought I'd ask it just directly.
Does anything that's happened in the second quarter in the subsea business presumably or for that matter I guess Surface can contribute but is it impacting your initial thoughts about where 2012 margins in Production Systems may be headed? No not at all.
I think as I said when you look at 2012 it's going to be a very strong year for subsea awards.
And we fully expect pricing to improve.
The timing on whether it improves obviously is tricky to predict.
But we see pricing improving in 2012 after the initial tranche of major awards are made which would improve margins.
I think on the subsea side where our ability to execute is getting better and better and because we have the backlog our organization is intact.
It's prepared for the growth.
And I'm very confident that our execution in subsea will only improve plus we have the advantage because we'll be going in 2012 presumably with higher backlog.
We'll be in a position to convert that backlog at revenue levels that should allow us more leverage in 2012 than what we saw in 2011 and that'll contribute to better margins.
On the surface side I think as we pointed out a lot of it is timing.
We've now got the awards and backlog and we'll be converting that.
And the execution which have delayed some shipments and increased cost those are largely going to be behind us in the second half of this year.
So no I think 2012 is set up for good execution and not a continuation of what we had experienced this year.
Okay.
Let me ask the question a little bit differently if I may John.
I think there was a line of argument that said that in 2011 much of the work you were going to recognize was based on frame agreements or your partners and therefore might be of a higher margin whereas in 2012 it may have been based to a greater degree on more competitively bid work which as you mentioned earlier in the current environment could have come at more price competitive and thus a lower margin.
So there I think were some concern that you might have a negative mix in your subsea business which could push margins lower next year.
I don't really hear that in your comments today but I guess can you be explicit? Is that an incorrect line of thinking? Yes it is incorrect for couple of reasons.
One is the business and the number of frame agreements we have it keeps increasing.
And in 2012 as the industry awards grow they will be with our partners.
And so we'd expect our growth in 2012 and our market share in this strong 2012 environment to reflect what it's reflected in the past and that is good share driven by our frame agreement and frame agreement partners not necessarily being successful on these competitively intense major projects that are out there.
The good thing about having our backlog rebuilt we can sort of navigate through this period of these first major awards being issued in a strategic and selective fashion in an effort to keep our margins where we want them to be.
So no I'm very confident in 2012 even as the market grows and some of these major projects that are tendered we're in an extremely good position to navigate through that for the purpose of maintaining and improving our margins.
Very helpful.
I'll follow on one more if you'll indulge me.
So if we for modeling purposes then thought about 2012 subsea margins relative to the second half of 2011 are you suggesting that they might be stronger than even the second half of '11 margins? No it's all going to depend on the mix that's in backlog.
And so we've got to see what we win and what we don't win.
And we've got to see how the market responds particularly in this initial period when these major awards are let.
We haven't seen a lot of the pricing yet so we don't know how just competitively intense it'll be.
And the projects margins that we put in backlog and what their margins are really have yet to be seen.
Do I believe that we'll have more leverage in 2012 than 2011 because we are growing [ph]? Yes but beyond that I think that we need to see that the complexion of our backlog going into 2012 before we comment on margins.
This concludes our second quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our third quarter 2011 conference call on October 26 at 9 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Operator you may end the call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the FMC Technologies' Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] In the event of technical difficulties during this call we will post updates at www.fmctechnologies.com/earnings.
Thank you.
Your host is Brad Alexander Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jamal.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current views and assumptions regarding future events future business conditions and our outlook based on currently available information these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
I refer you to our disclosures regarding risk factors in our SEC filings.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' President and CEO.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2011 conference call.
With me today are Bill Schumann our CFO; and Bob Potter our Executive Vice President.
I'll share with you some highlights from the quarter Bill will provide specifics on our financial performance and expectations for the remainder of the year and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
First the results for the quarter.
Earnings were $0.50 per diluted share.
We recorded $1.3 billion in orders during the third quarter of which $731 million was for subsea systems and included 31 subsea trees.
Subsea backlog now stands at $3.8 billion.
For the quarter total company revenue was $1.3 billion and subsea revenue for the quarter was $824 million.
Subsea sales increased 33% over last year and 4% sequentially.
While this volume was a record it was below our expectations.
Margins were also below our expectations due to both volume and execution.
We continue to expect our subsea sales will reach $3.3 billion for the full year as our fourth quarter subsea revenue should approach $1 billion.
This expectation is consistent with the fourth quarter typically being our strongest of the year.
Surface Wellhead revenue was up 16% from the third quarter of 2010 driven largely by North American activity.
We're starting to see some of the international timing and execution issues we've experienced in prior quarters improve and believe results going forward will continue to reflect this improvement.
While we won't be able to fully recover from these issues in 2011 they will positively impact our 2012 results.
Fluid Control continues to see record demand driven by North America pressure pumping activity as orders for both our WECO/Chiksan Flowline Products and our Well Service Pumps are at unprecedented levels.
We're continuing to expand our capacity in these areas to better serve this market.
Results on our other processing businesses grew sequentially at almost the same rate as Fluid Control and margins improved.
Entering the fourth quarter of 2011 we expect quarterly earnings to be between $0.46 and $0.51 as improved operational results are offset by less favorable corporate items therefore increasing our full year earnings guidance to a range of $1.70 to $1.75 per diluted share.
During the quarter we saw increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices.
At the current price levels however offshore developments remain economically attractive for our customers.
Subsea is a long-cycle business with the operators taking a longer-term view and therefore remaining committed to their subsea developments.
Operators are now at the stage in the tendering process where they typically begin to announce subsea awards.
Usual operator patterns give us confidence that 2012 should be a very strong year for inbound in the subsea industry.
We inbounded $731 million in subsea orders during the quarter with no orders in excess of $150 million.
Our year-to-date subsea inbound is now at $2.6 billion.
We continue to believe we will approach $4 billion in subsea orders for the year as we inbound the remaining portion of Shell's Prelude project along with an expected additional large award before year end.
We're starting to see improvement in our Gulf of Mexico order activity.
It also appears the pace of permitting is improving.
During the quarter 15 new deepwater permits were issued or 70% of the pre-Macondo average.
Large operators have proceeded with development plans in the Gulf of Mexico and we're now seeing the independents gain more confidence as well.
Deepwater recounts are also trending favorably.
Approximately 20 deepwater rigs were working in the Gulf of Mexico at the end of the quarter or about 2/3 of the pre-Macondo total.
I'd now like to turn to the subsea processing market and discuss the Petrobras Marlim project.
Last week we delivered the Marlim subsea process system to Petrobras on schedule following successful qualification testing.
Petrobras is now planning to install this pilot project in November.
The Marlim project has been a collaborative effort between Petrobras and FMC to design the world's deepest water and oil separation unit.
The ability to separate water from oil at the seafloor provides a solution that boosts production rates and extends the financial viability of the Marlim field.
The longer-term prospects for this type of system are encouraging as Petrobras has in excess of 70 wells with similar characteristics where this new technology could be applied.
Moving to our Fluid Control business.
We continue to perform at record levels and believe this should continue.
Our industry-leading WECO/Chiksan Flowline equipment continues to be in strong demand.
The industry reaction to our Well Service Pump has been positive.
And as our capacity expansion comes on stream we should be able to further improve our market position.
In summary our market-leading subsea orders were $731 million in the third quarter and we think we will approach the $4 billion level for the full year.
Subsea revenue in the quarter of $824 million was our largest ever and we expect $3.3 billion for the year.
Fluid Control continues to perform at record levels and we're raising our full year guidance to a range of $1.70 to $1.75 per diluted share.
Bill will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter.
Thanks John.
Energy Production sales for the third quarter was slightly above $1 billion an increase of 32% from last year's third quarter and 5% from the second quarter of 2011.
Our third quarter subsea sales of $824 million were up from the second quarter but as John said below our estimates.
We're still optimistic we can deliver a fourth quarter that reaches our target of $3.3 billion for the whole year.
We're now in the stages of subsea projects that drive large revenue increases.
However we are facing some headwinds from the impact of a stronger dollar.
Surface sales were 16% above the third quarter of 2010 and increased 7% sequentially on the strength of North American activity.
The delayed international orders that impacted the first half of 2011 have now been received and we now have backlog to support continued growth.
Energy Production generated operating profits of $115 million in the quarter an increase of 8% from the prior year quarter as sales increased.
Sequentially profit increased 18%.
Production margins at 11.3% in the quarter were below our estimates.
Subsea profitability improved sequentially but fell short of our expectations.
While we did gain the benefits of leveraging our SG&amp;A spend in the quarter we suffered some delays in projects and incurred increased project costs as we ramped up subsea volume to record levels.
Surface operations' profitability improved sequentially but we are not where we expected to be here either.
We anticipate further progress in the fourth quarter in both these businesses.
We now expect Energy Production margins to be between 10.5% and 11.5% for the full year with fourth quarter margins coming in around 12%.
Inbound orders in Energy Production were $934 million in the quarter including subsea orders of $731 million.
Backlog now stands at $4.1 billion including subsea backlog of $3.8 billion.
Backlog was impacted by approximately $320 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation as the dollar strengthened during the quarter.
For the full year foreign exchange has impacted backlog negatively by only $108 million.
Energy Processing sales were $286 million up 48% from the prior year quarter and 9% from the second quarter.
The year-over-year increase was again driven by record sales in our Fluid Control business.
Measurement Solutions Loading Systems and the other Energy Processing businesses also contributed to the year-over-year increase with over 20% growth.
Energy Processing generated operating profit of $61 million in the quarter the third quarter margin was 21%.
We now expect our fourth quarter margins to be around 20%.
Total inbound orders for Energy Processing were $332 million up 71% from last year's third quarter.
The increase came from Fluid Control and Measurement Solutions.
Backlog ended the quarter at a record $459 million.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $9.3 million.
Other expense in revenue net reflects income of $2.7 million.
This amount was more favorable than expected due to foreign currency gains of $6.3 million.
The quarter also benefited from reduced nonqualified benefit plan expense and a change in earnout consideration related to an acquisition.
Our third quarter tax rate was 27.4%.
The lower rate was reflective of changes in the country mix of our income.
We should finish the year with a tax rate of approximately 29% in the fourth quarter.
Capital spending this quarter was $84 million primarily directed towards our Energy Production businesses.
And again for the full year we expect our capital spending to come in near $250 million.
At the end of the quarter we had a net debt position of $194 million.
This was comprised of $336 million of cash and $530 million of debt.
We averaged 243.3 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter and we repurchased 1.5 million shares of stock during the quarter at an average price of approximately $40 per share.
We finished the quarter with 3.3 million shares remaining in our share repurchase program.
Looking at the fourth quarter our EPS guidance is $0.46 to $0.51 per diluted share.
Compared to the third quarter this guidance includes increased surface and subsea sales and improvements in Energy Production margins in addition to some improvements in the Energy Processing segment.
In the fourth quarter though some of these operational improvements will be offset by increased expenses associated with corporate items.
Excluding foreign exchange and some of the special adjustments we had in the third quarter our normal level of other expense and revenue is $8 million to $9 million per quarter.
In the fourth quarter we expect that we'll be $10 million or $0.03 per share above this level and this estimate is included in our EPS guidance.
Accordingly we are adjusting our full year 2011 diluted earnings per share guidance to a range of $1.70 to $1.75.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from David Anderson.
Research Division</strong> How much do you think economic concern is playing a role in the subsea market? You mentioned that a lot of these projects are just going to get pushed out because of normal delays.
But with Brent prices where they are most of your projects are priced up with Brent I'm just wondering if it's just -- it doesn't seem to be so many project [ph] economics.
I was just kind of curious your thoughts in terms of the economic uncertainty and how that plays a role in here.
So far what we've heard from the operators is that the projects that they've launched a year ago and put in motion they're not factoring in any of the economic uncertainty in their decisions.
They're proceeding I think with confidence on the long-term oil price that at today's levels supports their developments.
So we're not hearing -- and it's not to say that it couldn't happen but we're not hearing any concerns.
The delays in projects are the normal delays.
These are large complex projects usually involving or oftentimes involving national oil companies.
And that's the kind of delay that we're seeing.
Nothing about that I've heard anyway about revising their economic models based on economic uncertainty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked a good bit about the Gulf of Mexico in the outlook.
You had 20 rigs drilling in there now.
Most of them are drilling on development work.
Of the 31 trees you've got this quarter were any out the Gulf? And can you just kind of give me a -- can you give us a kind of a roadmap as how you see that progressing over the next 12 months? So would it mostly be onesies and twosies? Do you see some big projects in there? Can you kind of just help us understand how do you think that's going to develop? Yes.
Let me just go to the Gulf for a minute because it is encouraging.
The pace of permitting is clearly picking up we're getting close to Macondo levels.
The rig levels are -- in the next -- probably by the current rate by the middle of next year will be at pre-Macondo levels.
I think I mentioned in earlier calls that the major operators were generally proceeding with their big developments in the Gulf of Mexico kind of despite the slow pace of permitting.
It was the independents that I was a little more concerned about.
And quite frankly over the last quarter we're seeing the independents start to move out get permits approved and proceed with their projects.
In the third quarter we booked about 3 subsea trees related to the Gulf of Mexico.
But the Gulf of Mexico was strong particularly in -- we had a good aftermarket business in the Gulf of Mexico in addition to the 3 trees.
And you're right I think typically the Gulf of Mexico is more onesie twosies because they have the infrastructure.
They're tying back to it as opposed to say West Africa where you're going to have much larger complex projects.
So yes smaller orders in the Gulf.
And I'm encouraged and we have to be somewhat cautiously optimistic about the Gulf.
But it looks like it's starting to come back.
Research Division</strong> How does the margin mix look on the kind of onesies and twosies? Is it the -- should they have higher margins because they're sort of your off-the-shelfs and should require engineering projects should require more engineering on it? Yes that's correct.
If they're going to be off-the-shelf and more of our standard design particularly if they're an alliance partner or a frame agreement partner we're going to have better margins than if there's a $500 million West Africa project that's competitively tendered at least in today's environment the onesie twosies in the Gulf would probably have a little bit better margins.
And your next question comes from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> John so what was encouraging about your opening commentary here was the continued optimistic outlook regarding the subsea tree award scape or Seascape [ph] in this matter.
And what I'd like to do is maybe to juxtapose where you stood on the Q2 call when you pretty much revealed that you thought that subsea tree awards would be up 50% industry-wide in 2012 and major project awards would double.
You didn't specify on this call but certainly the commentary was affirmative.
How would you juxtapose your outlook on the Q2 call versus today? Has it changed? Is it more optimistic? Or is it still the same which is constructive? Bill it's the same.
And let me kind of give the statistics again.
It looks like in 2011 major projects over $100 million there'll be somewhere between 8 and  10 awards in 2011.
When I look at the project list for 2012 it is 20-plus and perhaps just as importantly it's more evenly distributed over the year.
More than half of those 20-plus awards are at least scheduled to be awarded in the first half of the year.
So even if they move out a quarter or so they could still stay in the year.
The second thing with regard to the 20-plus projects many of them are well into the tendering process.
And so they're at a stage where the bids have either been submitted or they're under evaluation.
So that gives us confidence that not only is the number of projects over $100 million for 2012 larger than 2011 but the likelihood of them being awarded is strong.
The other thing is that in 2011 there was very little Petrobras activity.
If you'll remember 3 years ago Petrobras came out with multiyear contracts.
Those multiyear contracts would largely be completed or consumed and we believe that Petrobras in 2012 needs to start ordering trees and manifolds not only for the conventional equipment but also for pre-salt.
So you kind of put that together plus maybe some improvement in the Gulf of Mexico and you get a very strong 2012 for subsea awards.
Research Division</strong> It certainly sounds like it.
And Bill and John with regard to -- so let's take subsea tree -- or sorry Energy Processing -- Energy Production margin is at 12% in the fourth quarter.
And then if we can just talk about not necessarily specifying what the number is but the margin roadmap for 2012 the launch point is more favorable certainly than the yearly average.
You're going to go into the year with a higher level of backlog than you came into 2011.
I don't know about mix maybe you could add that commentary.
But certainly margins should be up versus the fourth quarter in terms of the 2012 average.
Is that a fair comment Bill? Well Bill we're not going to give guidance at this point for 2012.
We can talk about what happened in the third quarter and what happened -- what we expect to happen in the fourth quarter.
But I mean year-over-year we would expect some improvement.
I don't know about the exit.
I don't know about the margin in the fourth quarter versus full year 2012 at this point.
Research Division</strong> But the narrative with regard to higher volumes higher backlog going into the year certainly helps absorption correct? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay fine.
And then do we have any -- can you at least shed some light with regard to the mix that's in the backlog today and how that perhaps may influence margins in 2012? Is it an uptick a downtick or is it flat? As we've gone through the year our margin in backlog which I think is what you're asking about has increased slightly.
And that's more due to executing lower margin projects than pricing increasing.
So we should have a slightly better mix going into 2012 than we had coming into 2011.
And your next question is from Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> John just thinking about the backlog and the time it will take to consume can you give us an idea as to -- we're at $3.8 billion or so today I think how long it will take us to work through that for subsea? Well the $3.8 billion backlog that we have has kind of been in backlog for 6 months.
So we're starting to get deeper into the manufacturing cycle.
So we think it will start to ramp up in 2012.
And I think typically we are beginning backlog we consume about 60%.
We convert about 60% of that in a year in which that backlog exists.
So I don't think the $3.8 billion we have in backlog is unusual it's not.
We had pretty good inbound in the first half of the year.
So I'd say it's evenly distributed not one cup where it's going to affect that conversion rate that's been our historical rate.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how much was the nonmanufacturing subsea order number in the quarter the installation service et cetera? We actually had -- in the quarter we had a fairly strong installation number.
It represented a little over 30% of our subsea inbound.
It was unusual because we booked 2 extensions to our Statoil Light Well Intervention orders and so that drove that number up.
Typically the number is between 20% and 25% is our aftermarket or installation services versus the subsea inbound number.
And it was higher in the quarter because of this unusual multiyear extension to 2 Light Well Intervention contracts with Statoil.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up on that what do you think the prospects are for getting another Light Well Intervention unit signed up with an operator in the next year? Well there's a lot of interest.
Our 3 Light Well Intervention systems 2 for Statoil and 1 for BP are performing extremely well.
The utilization numbers are quite high.
We've been successful in actually using the onetime [ph] contract with BP for Shell and some other operators.
So the interest is growing.
The trigger for an additional Light Well Intervention stack will come when we're convinced that we have enough commitment for the operators to support a good level of utilization.
And we don't have that yet.
Right now we've got interest we've got other people other operators that are actually using the system and pleased with it but haven't put together enough commitment to trigger a fourth stack.
But we're hopeful that I mean as interest grows that will eventually happen.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally for me we've had some commentary out of some pressure pumping contractors over the past few days that would suggest that market is perhaps peaking at least in the gas basins around the country.
What's your current order visibility for Fluid Control? And what's your game plan if that market does soften up a bit? Well as you know Joe the Fluid Control business is kind of the opposite of subsea in that we refer to it as a shorter-cycle business.
So if there were a downturn in North America pressure pumping activity we'd see it fairly quick in Fluid Control.
But in the quarter we had record levels of inbound for our Fluid Control business.
And the operators are continuing with a strong order rate for that equipment.
So we haven't seen any kind of a decline.
And certainly the shift from gas to liquids makes North America activity a little bit more sustainable.
But I'll let Bob make some additional comments.
Well I think John's comments are right on.
And the shift to liquid-rich shales is certainly a major factor in terms of bolstering our confidence about the path forward in North America.
Quite honestly our best measure though is active dialogue with the pressure pumpers.
And we stay in constant contact with those guys assessing their -- not only their CapEx plans but also where they're operating and how actively they're operating.
And all indications are right now that while they are somewhat less optimistic about the natural gas part of North American drilling the liquid-rich shales are certainly picking up the pace.
And then there's other variables that are hard to predict leasehold drilling gas fields where they have hedged contracts so there's lots of moving parts.
But all in all we remain reasonably optimistic about the North American market.
And your next question is from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> John I wanted to talk just a little bit about pricing on subsea and how you see that unfolding.
I know the commentary previously has been for you that pricing has been relatively flat here.
And just curious as we move through 2012 given the exceptional order rate you see for the industry as a whole at what point do we see our competitors filling up enough backlog here where the industry as a whole starts to see some sort of pricing traction I guess first? And then second can it come soon enough kind of given an even spread rate you see next year for orders to impact 2012 at all perhaps in the back half? Or is that more of a 2013 margin impact as you see it? I think to see a material increase in pricing we need to see some of these major awards being distributed over the other subsea suppliers.
As you know Bill we rebuilt our backlog with almost 60% market share in 2010 and now it's like another 60-plus percent market share in 2011.
So we've rebuilt our backlog.
We're going to be selective going into this very strong market in 2012 to be sure that we preserve our margins if not improve our pricing.
So we're going to be selective.
But the key to a material price increase in subsea will be those other suppliers who have not rebuilt their backlog.
And I'm sure they need to do that.
So we need a couple of awards for each supplier so they -- where they start feeling that their backlogs are sufficiently rebuilt and then we'll start to see at least I hope anyway that we'll start to see some pricing change as the other suppliers realize that they're starting to fill up their capacity.
So I don't want to necessarily predict the timing and the calendar.
But I think it's safe to say that we're going to have to see a handful maybe 4 or 5 major awards left next year and then distributed over the remaining subsea supplier before we see some pricing improvement.
And I think that sort of means that it'd be later in the year possibly.
And then we'd have to be able to convert those orders with better pricing pretty darn fast to get into 2012 revenues.
So I think it's better to look at it more as a 2013 situation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up I know you touched briefly on kind of the fluid end business and its relationship to North America.
I was curious if you could talk a little bit about your North America plans on the surface side.
I know that's a segment that's typically heavily weighted toward international but you guys have made a conscious effort to grow that business here.
Just curious in what's been an uncertain WTI landscape here has there been more challenges in growing that business than you thought? Or how do you see the North America surface business unfolding for you as we move through next year? Well Bill I appreciate that question.
Yes you're actually right.
Historically our surface business had been more weighed toward the international side where we have very strong positions.
But because of the North America activity we've seen substantial growth.
And in fact the Surface Wellhead inbound increase has come almost exclusively from North America and that's because of our success in participation in the shale plays.
In particular we've had a lot of success in frac rental equipment.
And throughout the year we've increased our investment in these assets.
So I think it's been very very positive for us.
It's allowed us to increase our market share in North America because we've been able to respond to the growth especially in this frac rental equipment.
So I think -- I mean I don't necessarily want to predict North America activity but I think quarter-over-quarter we saw a big improvement in Surface Wellhead.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I guess whatever you believe the rig count is going to do next year that business should grow at a faster clip for you.
Yes I just wouldn't want to comment necessarily on what the rig count is.
I'll let Bob comment on  the outlook for...
Just a couple of points.
Quarter-over-quarter North America Surface Wellhead increased 45%.
So it's a big jump.
And the other change that has really happened in North America shales are the makeup of our customer base.
Increasingly we see more majors and NOCs in the shale plays that we think plays well for us.
And that's really more dead center for our kind of customer base and so that's working well for us.
And as John said we're continuing to invest aggressively not only in the equipment to be utilized on the drilling applications but also in facilities.
We're continuing to expand our footprint particularly in a liquid-rich shale environment.
And your next version is from Brad Handler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can we please come back to the Energy Production Systems margins? I guess I just want -- I know you basically addressed it in your comments but maybe we can flesh it out a bit more.
You had expectations of improvement in the third quarter which were not quite realized.
And you're dampening your expectations for the fourth quarter margins if I understood the guidance correctly.
Can you confirm that? And then is this about -- have projects fallen on back of each other and so there's still delays in getting what you expected out the door? It sounds like there was a little of that.
Or can you talk about these execution issues that you are describing as such? Sure Brad this is Bill.
Let me see if I can address your question.
First of all you're right.
Our guidance had implied about a 13% margin in the second half of 2011 Q3 and Q4.
And our current results in Q3 plus our guidance for Q4 would imply about 11.5% margin.
So we have reduced our expectations.
We've talked a fair amount about the surface issues that we've had.
We've had some execution issues in our international business.
Those have reduced in magnitude but we're still suffering a little bit on the international side of the surface business.
We expect that by the end of the year that will be remediated.
Then comes subsea.
And in subsea I want to be pretty specific here.
Let's talk about the top line first.
It wasn't pricing.
The projects we're executing today were generally priced a year ago.
It has been entirely our execution.
And we had some unplanned expenses in the quarter and we expect those expenses to continue at least through the fourth quarter associated with increased volume.
We had revenues of $683 million in the first quarter.
We expect $1 billion in the fourth quarter.
That's a 45% increase I think in activity from the first quarter to the fourth quarter.
We've hired 1 500 employees in subsea about 20% increase in our population.
And we haven't executed as well as we anticipated.
And that's largely the reason for the reduction from kind of the 13% area to the 11.5% area.
And we expect those added expenditures to go away based on increased efficiency of the workforce as we get used to operating at this higher level.
And that's kind of the -- what happened in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
So if I stick with the subsea margin topic then for a sec I guess on a constant volume basis -- I know one of the prior callers was asking about this in a way.
But if 4Q represents something of a base level and might be a little higher I suppose than your average expectation for '12.
But if it represents something of a base level all other things equal you'd expect margins to go up just because of the increased efficiency as this new labor force gets more in sort of traction if you will.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> That's a fair statement? Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay interesting.
If I could just get one more.
John you expressed that the confidence about still getting to $4 billion in orders it does sound like it's kind of hinging on 1 large project.
Am I reading that correctly? And maybe you can give us a little bit more color about that one.
I'm sure if it's what I'm thinking then I know there's some controversy about around that project moving forward.
Well let me -- and we're saying approaching $4 billion but we think we can get pretty close in part because really throughout the year we've had pretty good inbound from call-offs and smaller awards.
And I think the third quarter is a good example in that we entered $731 million without a project over $150 million.
So assuming that we stay in that range of small call-offs and then we add the remainder of Prelude which was not entered in the third quarter and we definitely expect the remainder of Prelude which is the manifolds which they need for that project that being entered into the fourth quarter.
And then we add a major award which I'll talk more about you get to over $1 billion and that starts to get closer to the $4 billion that we've been talking about.
Now what is that major award? Well there's 3 that could potentially be awarded in the fourth quarter.
Gazprom Stockman project the bids have been submitted it's under evaluation.
It has a chance to get into the fourth quarter probably maybe the lower probability just because it's Gazprom and they haven't done a lot of subsea projects.
INPEX Ichthys in Western Australia that project has been tendered.
It's been under evaluation for 3 or 4 months.
I know the target was originally for that to be awarded in the fourth quarter.
So that's still a possibility.
And then there's Chevron Wheatstone where the bids have been submitted.
It's been under evaluation.
Recently Chevron announced their approval of the go-ahead for that project.
And I have a lot of confidence that the Wheatstone project in particular will be awarded in the fourth quarter.
We're in good positions on all 3 of those projects so we're hopeful that one of those results in a large order that we need to get closer to $4 billion.
And your next question is from Rob MacKenzie with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> John I wanted to explore a little bit the Fluid Control segment and try to get a better handle on given the shift in the kind of U.S.
frac-ing business how much of your orders do you think in that business are for capital equipment versus how much of that is for maintaining existing equipment as the plumbing wears out? Typically the mix is 75% consumable 25% capital.
Also typically it's in the third and fourth quarter where the pressure pumping companies start.
They finish their budgets and they start to release some of the CapEx.
We actually saw a couple of capital orders in the third quarter.
We'd expect maybe some more in the fourth quarter.
But typically it's 75% 25% consumable CapEx.
This is Bob.
I think that's correct particularly as it relates to flowline Products.
But our capital-spending component is larger now because of the Well Service Pump element of what we do for the pressure pumpers as well as the big articulated frac arm manifolds that we've been providing both of which are more CapEx-related side.
So I'd say we're moving more towards in total a 50-50.
Still 75% as John said expendables when you're talking flowline.
But overall probably closer to 50-50.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And notwithstanding I guess the capital orders you mentioned what are you hearing from your customers or seeing in terms of order flow for new equipment? Is it starting to tail off yet? Or is it still strong? Not yet still strong.
I mean I think that if you look around basin by basin there's still some major basins out there particularly in the liquid-rich environments that are still undercapitalized if you will in terms of equipment to be able to -- for the pressure pumpers to meet the demands that they're faced with.
Now on the other hand there's some of the more gas-rich shales where they probably have access equipment they're looking at moving things around.
But quite honestly we're still continuing to see strong order flow admittedly a short-cycle business.
And again as I said that earlier most of our market intelligence comes from just active dialogue on an ongoing basis with all the major pressure pumpers and our other customers.
And that continues to hold up pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And how would you characterize the duration of your backlog there? Well we've got a record backlog in Fluid Control.
We turn that product pretty quickly out of there though I'll tell you particularly on the flowline side of the business.
Now on the on the pump side obviously those are longer lead times.
And most of our backlog I might add is the longer lead time type of product.
The other stuff just flows through very very quickly.
So that backlog we'll be consuming over the course of the next 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then shifting back to subsea.
One of the things apart from Marlim that I wanted to explore is other subsea processing projects.
Any kind of update on what you see on the horizon there either incremental stages to Marlim or other operators around the world? Well let's start with Petrobras and Marlim.
Petrobras is very very interested in the Marlim pilot project.
They're going to get the system in the water within the next couple of weeks.
Exactly how long they run the pilot I'm not sure.
But I know that they're going to obviously want to monitor and make sure it's performing.
But then they'll be very anxious to start expanding the application of that technology to their 70 other wells.
And I can't predict when that will happen.
But assuming the pilot goes well we should expect that to happen.
So they're very interested and it's very important to them.
And again we should expect that once the pilot is complete that they'll move ahead and apply that technology to their other fields where the application is similar.
On non-Petrobras processing opportunities in 2000 -- there's 1 or 2 that could possibly be still awarded at the end of this year.
But looking forward to 2012 there's almost 10 named processing projects split evenly between brownfield and greenfield.
Maybe the majority is boosting but there's at least 4 or 5 that have separation components to it.
These will move around a lot and I'm not sure all 10 will survive in 2012.
But that's a big jump from the 3 or 4 projects that were typically on our horizon for any given year in the past.
Research Division</strong> Is that very geographically diverse as well? Yes.
There's 3 in the Gulf of Mexico and a couple in West Africa and a couple in Brazil.
So yes geographically diverse.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up on the Petrobras.
You said 70 wells that Petrobras can apply this to.
Is that within the Marlim fields? Because I believe there's 83 producing wells there.
Or is that their whole portfolio? I thought it was their whole portfolio.
Well maybe that's wrong maybe it's just Marlim then.
And your next question comes from Doug Becker with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just have sort of a housekeeping item.
For the corporate expense of $10 million are there any assumptions regarding foreign exchange? Yes Doug this is Bill.
No I've gotten out of that business.
Any gain or loss in foreign exchange would be -- is not included in the guidance or the $10 million.
And your next question comes from Kurt Hallead with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> John in the past we've had certain conversations you had suggested that of those -- you mentioned those 3 large projects: the Wheatstone the Stockman the Ichthys.
And then obviously there's still the Egina project that's out there.
You had made some suggestion in the past that once maybe 3 of those projects get booked that you start to see some pricing improvement predicated on the other competitors going up their backlogs and so on and so forth.
Would you still characterize it in that same context? Or do you think that it's going to take more than that to see some pricing improvement? Yes no it's the same.
I mean I don't know if it's exactly 3 years or 4 it depends on how it's distributed.
If we pick up more than our fair share then that would still leave another supplier maybe without their backlog where they want.
But I think we've got -- I think for many of them to launch -- and this would even be may be true for us but to launch multiple big EPC contracts simultaneously is a pretty big strain on an organization.
And so if a supplier were to win 2 major EPC contracts in the same quarter they'd probably have to scramble.
And that might influence their decision on pricing.
So yes I think it will be about a handful of early big projects and how to distribute it to the subsea suppliers will start to shape when pricing will start to improve.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now do you think of the 3 projects the major projects you just referenced is there the capability of FTI to take on more than one of those major projects in the same context of what you just mentioned? Yes we could we could.
We simultaneously run half-dozen or more major EPC contracts so that would -- we could do more than one sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> And of those 3 if you were to roll them all together what would be the dollar value of those 3 as you know it right now? Of those of 3 it's over $1 billion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the context on your Fluid Control and in your business exposed to frac equipment market can you just give us an update? What percentage of revenue is that running at right now as a percentage of your Energy Processing business? I'm sorry Kurt this is Bill.
It's a little bit more than 50% of the segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Bill you referenced in Energy Processing you expect the margins to come off the 21% level going third to fourth quarter.
Why would that be? Well it's really a mix issue.
We've assumed that the non-Fluid Control businesses grow faster in the fourth quarter than Fluid and they carry a lower margin with them.
So it's entirely mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one here.
I think I've heard in certain circles over the past few quarters some critique on FTI just from a context about you guys are in a leadership position in the business that some of your competitors are suggesting that you haven't as a leader taken enough to maintain pricing in the subsea arena.
How would you address that? Well we would -- yes as the market leader we think just the opposite.
We are showing leadership on the pricing side.
And I think I referred to that earlier.
By building our backlog to a large extent through our frame agreements and our suppliers we're in a position to be selective on these certain projects that are coming up and to demonstrate that leadership as we've done on a number of projects that we walked away from last year because we weren't satisfied with the pricing while others picked that up.
Some of the more notable ones are in Petrobras' multiyear award where although we're the market leader in Brazil we chose to focus on the higher-end technology projects rather than the more price-sensitive conventional equipment.
So I think we've demonstrated strongly our leadership by walking away from certain projects that don't meet our pricing expectations and focusing on where we're strong on the high technology side where we can earn better margins.
So I think Marlim is a wonderful example of that.
We're supporting Petrobras on the high-end equipment where we can get better pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry I lied this is my last one.
In terms of the total market size I think in the past you made a reference maybe $8 billion in 2011.
Can you give us an update on what you think the total subsea market size was in '11? And then what you -- based on those 20 projects north of $100 million for next year what's your guesstimate as to the potential market size for 2012? Well we just have to be a little bit careful in the sense that it's a lumpy business.
And what's happening in 2012 is we've got a sort of queue of subsea projects that rolled out of 2011 into 2012.
So I'm not sure 2012 is necessarily going to be representative.
But with 20-some projects the project alone could be valued at $6 billion $7 billion or $8 billion.
And then you've got the call-offs which go on top of that and then you've got Petrobras.
So you're right I think we're headed to north of $8 billion in 2012.
But I just want to caution you that there's a sort of -- there's been a queue of projects that are all landing in '12.
So I don't know how representative it is.
But it's definitely north of $8 billion just by adding up the 20-some projects and then the smaller stuff.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you say '11 was kind of in that $8 billion range? Yes.
Your next question comes from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups on the P&amp;L.
Bill can you remind us how currency exposure flows through the income statement? In the past I remember there had been some sort of mark-to-market on the backlog.
Is that still the case? Right.
As a matter of fact in this quarter -- well first of all we carry our backlog in multiple currencies.
Almost 1/2 of it frankly is in Norwegian krona and about 25% is in Brazilian reais.
And I'm talking about subsea backlog now.
And so during the quarter with the strength of the dollar those projects that were in backlog declined by I think $308 million.
So if you took our beginning backlog at the end of Q2 and added our inbound and subtracted our sales you'd still have to take $308 million off to make it all fit to the $3.8 billion that we ended the quarter with.
Now that's backlog.
When it flows through our income statement for instance in a Norwegian krona contract we've got costs in dollars euros and pounds.
And so we hedge all of those back into NOKs so that the contract itself has NOK revenue and NOK costs.
So we don't have any margin exposure to currency.
But when it does flow through the income statement if the dollar strengthens it comes through as lower sales and lower earnings but the same margin as a percent.
And that impacted backlog in the third quarter.
Some of that has already reversed.
The dollar has weakened given about half of what they took in the Norwegian krona in the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that was my question.
It looks like kind of just right as the quarter ended it looked like that was the peak in kind of currency and then we've almost redirected it back.
Yes the krona was down 9% actually a little over 9% in September.
And that's already back almost 6% in October.
So we've recovered much.
We probably recovered $100 million $150 million of the $300-odd million that we lost in backlog in September.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me again kind of nitpicky.
But on the tax rate I think you mentioned 29% for the fourth quarter.
Is that a fair baseline tax rate kind of on an ongoing basis? Or is that more of a special kind of year-end scenario? No that's pretty much a run rate.
I mean it will move around depending on where our income is.
And that's largely what happened in the third quarter.
We estimate full year income and which country and that moved around a little bit.
And consequently the 27% really represents trueing up to a run rate of about 29% for the full year.
Your next question comes from William Conroy with Pritchard Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Really just wanted to ask a question and Bill this is probably aimed at you.
On your expense side can you give us just a little bit of color around maybe what pushes that you're seeing there? So this really is not a backlog question it's the current level of cost.
And to the extent that is labor a factor into this? I'm really kind of thinking along the lines of labor rates and availability.
And ditto on materials to the extent various grades of steel that you guys are using forgings et cetera and also related then the logistics side.
Yes.
Quite frankly we haven't seen much push on the material cost side.
We are expecting some next year and we're preparing for that.
And most of our budgets will reflect that.
But year-to-date we haven't seen much.
And I can say kind of there probably is a little bit more labor inflation than we anticipated.
We're having a hard time finding people and that's part of what's caused the problem in subsea is we haven't been able to hire engineers fast enough.
And consequently we've fallen a little bit behind.
And when that happens costs begin to accumulate.
And that's part of what happened in the second half of 2011.
And your last question comes from Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> John as you well know one of your competitors here recently announced a major manufacturing problem in Brazil with delays and liquidated damages and all of that.
So my question for you is as several oil service equipment companies have talked about cost pressures in Brazil and efficiency factors and how do you feel generally about your manufacturing operations there? Well I feel pretty good especially after the Marlim success.
We've been in Brazil 50 years.
We have almost 1 500 people in-country.
Over the last few years that business for us anyway has ramped up dramatically maybe 2 or 3x its size 5 and 10 years ago.
And we've made a lot of changes so that we can execute out of our Brazilian facility at a much higher activity rate than we could historically.
And I think we're seeing the results of it that now when our on-time delivery performance to Petrobras despite our high activity rate is one of the best we've ever been at.
And then I think Marlim again not to harp too much on that but that's a really good example.
Here's brand-new technology the designs are new the manufacturing was all new and it's delivered on schedule and on budget.
And so I think what's happened is that we've devoted a lot of effort to execution in Brazil.
We've been there a long time.
We've made a lot of changes so that we could perform at very high levels in a highly active market.
And I think we're starting to see that especially in our performance to Petrobras.
I think Petrobras is so pleased with our performance on Marlim and as well as our other projects we're doing for Petrobras.
And it reflects the investments that we've made over the years.
I'll tell you the one thing that we do worry about and that's the supply chain in Brazil.
We've taken a lot of action to shore that up including insourcing and removing things that were out in the supply chain back into our own facility to ensure that our execution is what Petrobras expects.
Now I'm not suggesting we will never have a slip-up in Brazil because it is a challenging environment and Petrobras will impose liquidated managed damages.
But right now our performance level is very high.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So you were suggesting earlier that you see a pretty significant step-up to Petrobras as well.
So I guess that makes it even more challenging.
Do you think that the local content requirements in Brazil will increase or perhaps be relaxed if this additional increase in activity for subsea processing occurs in Brazil? Well I can tell you they're not going to be relaxed.
I met with Director Estrella a couple months ago and he was -- most of the conversation was about local content.
So I think there's a lot of pressure from Petrobras to increase local content.
The challenge is that some of it it's already at very high level 60-plus percent.
Our level of local content I think is one of the highest in the industry.
We're the only company I know of that actually assembles and tests subsea controls in-country.
To get it a lot higher is going to be a challenge for the whole industry because a lot of the stuff that's not currently done in Brazil is because there isn't the capability.
So it's going to be a real challenge to take it a lot higher.
But there's pressure from Petrobras to try to do that.
And I think our company is as well positioned as any to meet Petrobras' requirements.
I'd like to turn the call over to Brad Alexander for closing remarks.
This concludes our third quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our fourth quarter 2011 conference call on February 15 at 9 a.m.
Eastern Standard Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Operator you may now end the call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the FMC Technologies Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] In the event of technical difficulties during this call we will post updates at www.fmctechnologies.com/earnings.
Thank you.
Your host is Brad Alexander Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin your conference.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statement issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current views and assumptions regarding future events future business conditions and our outlook based on currently available information these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
I refer you to our disclosures in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
Additionally we have changed our reporting structure to better reflect our strategic priorities.
An 8-K was filed with the SEC that restated past results under the new reporting structure.
All results discussed during the call will be reported using our 3 new segments Subsea Technologies Surface Technologies and Energy Infrastructure unless we indicate otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2011 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our Executive Vice President.
I'll start with some highlights from the quarter and for the year.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and our outlook for 2012 and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Regarding the results for the quarter [Audio Gap] earnings were $0.41 per diluted share for the quarter and $1.64 for the full year a 7% increase over our prior year performance and our 10th consecutive year of earnings growth.
Despite the earnings growth our subsea results were below our previous guidance.
We reached our revenue expectation but as we discussed last quarter the continuing challenges associated with ramping up our subsea business by almost 40% from the first quarter to the fourth quarter of 2011 negatively impacted margins.
We also incurred some other specific costs which I'll discuss later.
Total company revenue was $1.5 billion for the quarter and $5.1 billion for the year.
Fourth quarter operating income was $166 million bringing our 2011 total to $619 million.
Subsea Technologies inbounded $1.3 billion of awards in the fourth quarter bringing our full year total to $3.9 billion.
Our backlog now stands at $4.1 billion.
Revenue for the quarter in Subsea Technologies was $964 million an increase of 38% over the prior year quarter and 16% sequentially.
This volume is a record and enabled us to reach $3.3 billion in revenue for the year.
In 2012 we expect to generate approximately $4 billion in revenue and our fourth quarter revenue of almost $1 billion supports this target.
Margins however for this segment of 7.2% in the quarter were clearly below our expectations.
The margin shortfall was largely related to our Subsea Eastern Region.
In the quarter we took a charge related to the Laggan-Tormore project for $19 million due to increased cost associated with an engineering interface issue.
In addition it was necessary to add resources to execute the project within the customer's need date.
Additionally we recognized cost primarily associated with anticipated project delays on West Africa projects where we're not on schedule to meet our customer's contractual delivery dates.
Finally as we respond to growth in our subsea business we continue to experience higher labor cost associated with our expanding workforce.
We've also increased our R&amp;D spending as we accelerate the development of our subsea portfolio.
Surface Technologies' fourth quarter revenue of $374 million was up 38% from 2010 and 11% from the third quarter driven largely by North American shale activity for both fluid control and surface wellhead.
International activity has improved for surface wellhead as we've recovered from the challenges we faced earlier in the year and orders that were delayed are now starting to ship.
We're pleased that these issues from the first half of the year are largely behind us.
Energy Infrastructure fourth quarter revenue of $151 million increased 21% from 2010 and 17% from the third quarter as we experienced a traditionally stronger fourth quarter.
Returning to our subsea business.
In the fourth quarter we inbounded 43 subsea trees bringing our 2011 total to 165 trees.
This represented 53% of the total market in which 311 trees were awarded.
Our frame and alliance agreements with many of our partners again contributed significantly towards our ability to achieve another strong year of awards.
During the quarter our inbound included 3 large project awards in our Asia Pacific region.
Both Chevron's Wheatstone project and Woodside's Greater Western Flank Phase 1 Project off the coast of Australia are gas projects we won during the quarter.
We're supplying our enhanced vertical deepwater trees on both of these projects as they're ideally suited to the high-pressure wells in these fields.
In addition to these 2 projects we also were awarded the balance of the Shell Prelude project which included the manifold.
Turning to Brazil.
We reported during our last call we had successfully delivered the Marlim deepwater processing systems to Petrobras on schedule.
As it stands subsea installation has been completed and topside modification work is in progress.
Once completed the system will be commissioned and Petrobras will begin its evaluation of this new technology.
We continue to be encouraged by the future prospects for this technology and the interest in the market it's receiving.
For 2012 we're looking at continued subsea revenue growth and expect our overall project execution to improve as we move throughout the year.
We will continue to add physical capacity and headcount as we see the subsea market rapidly expanding over the next 5 years.
These costs will impact our near-term margins but they're necessary to put us in position to meet our long-term growth profile.
Focusing on 2012 award opportunities.
In West Africa the anticipated passage of the Nigerian tax law along with the increased activity in Angola should help assure more projects are awarded.
In addition the Gulf of Mexico is likely to see improvement as permitting activity continues to increase.
We also anticipate in Brazil that Petrobras will need to place large awards for both pre-salt and conventional activity this year and beyond.
We're optimistic that the overall subsea market will be substantially larger this year than in 2011.
The project list of major awards has grown from this time last year and the project timing of awards to be more evenly distributed across the quarters.
We think our subsea award total should improve assuming we don't see any of these awards move beyond 2012.
Our 53% market win percentage in 2011 is expected to be lower in 2012 due to more awards coming from our non-frame agreement partners but these awards should fill industry backlogs and ultimately improve pricing as we move throughout the year.
Lastly regarding our subsea business we announced in January our plans to acquire the remaining 55% of Schilling Robotics.
Schilling is known throughout the industry for ROVs and ROV manipulator arms as well as their control systems technology.
Beyond these technologies we think Shilling is going to play an integral part in our ability to grow in the expanding subsea environment where the demand for ROVs should increase and additional subsea infrastructure would require more maintenance than what has been seen historically.
We've already benefited from the synergies of Schilling technology with ours most notably the integration of the robotic actuator design used in our Congro-Corvina separation project win last year.
Part of our growth strategy includes continuing to grow our shale focus businesses.
For 2012 in North America our Surface Technology business continues to see strong demand for our frac manifolds and frac trees.
Across the industry international oil companies have increased their participation in the North America shale market.
The strong oil prices and demand for liquids thus far has offset the current low natural gas prices.
Our WECO/Chiksan flowline product sales remain at strong levels and our pump backlog extends in the latter part of 2012.
As our new capacity comes online this will improve our ability to better serve demand.
We're also encouraged about the aftermarket activity as frac intensity continues to increase requiring higher levels of field replacement parts for both flowline products as well as well service pumps.
Internationally we have largely addressed the surface wellhead execution issues we encountered during 2011 and expect performance in 2012 to be strong.
In summary our 2012 outlook shows significant growth over 2011 as we look to generate approximately $4 billion in revenue in our Subsea Technologies segment with improved margins and inbound awards exceeding the numbers we recorded in 2011.
Our Surface Technologies record results reflected strong performance in the North America shale markets.
As our activity here is expected to remain strong in 2012 and our international operation benefit from a full year of improved results we expect another strong year.
And lastly with expected earnings of between $2.10 and $2.25 per diluted share representing growth of at least 28% we expect 2012 to be our 11th consecutive year of earnings growth.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter and for the full year.
Thanks John.
Before discussing the details of our results I will briefly explain our resegmentation.
In line with our strategic priorities we have aggregated our subsea-driven businesses in the Subsea Technologies segment.
We have combined our surface wellhead and our fluid control operations into the Surface Technologies segment as these businesses are largely driven by the same trends.
Both of these businesses have a focus on the expanding shale markets which present another growth opportunity for us.
Our Energy Infrastructure segment is composed of the remaining portfolio of our businesses.
Now to our quarterly results.
Subsea Technologies operating profit was $70 million in the quarter with a margin of 7.2%.
As John said this was clearly below our estimate of around 12% margin for the quarter.
The margin shortfall to our projections for the quarter was largely the result of higher estimated completion cost for the Laggan-Tormore project higher-than-expected charges primarily related to West African project delays and cost inefficiencies associated with the increasing workforce to support future growth.
We also incurred higher R&amp;D expenses in the quarter as we accelerated the development of our technology portfolio.
The $19 million charge for the Laggan-Tormore project primarily reflects additional engineering hours and increased cost to correct an engineering interface issue.
It was identified late in the project cycle and it affected our project scope.
With these additional resources added to the project we expect to meet our customer delivery requirements.
Additionally as we achieve the higher subsea volumes and prepare for future growth we continue to experience increased cost related to the project completion and efficiencies of our growing workforce.
Although we experienced inefficiencies in the fourth quarter similar to those we have discussed in previous quarters we believe that we will be improving productivity as our revenue and headcount growth rates stabilizes.
While we continue to add headcount in 2012 to meet revenue growth estimates the pace of the ramp-up will be somewhat slower as we believe we have sized our organization to address the higher activity levels.
As a result we expect to achieve improved productivity in 2012.
Subsea Technologies inbound for the quarter was $1.3 billion bringing our 2011 total inbound to more than $3.9 billion.
We exited the year with $4.1 billion in Subsea Technologies backlog.
Surface Technologies sales for the quarter were $374 million a 38% increase from the prior year -- excuse me from the prior year quarter and an 11% increase from the third quarter.
We are continuing to benefit from our expanded service offerings in the North America shale market.
We experienced another strong quarter from our fluid control business.
On the surface wellhead side we have worked through many of the execution shortfalls we experienced early in the year and delivered strong fourth quarter results.
Surface Technologies generated operating profit of $76 million in the quarter with a margin of 20.4% a 61% increase in profit over 2010 and a 16% increase sequentially.
This is the result of high activity in our fluid control business as well as operational improvements and expanded frac offerings in surface wellhead.
Orders for the Surface Technologies for the quarter were $404 million as surface wellhead and fluid control activity levels remained strong.
Our Surface Technologies segment is also poised to have another strong year assuming the North American shale market remain strong.
Backlog now stands at $578 million for this segment.
Energy Infrastructure sales for the fourth quarter were $151 million a 21% increase over 2010 and a 17% increase sequentially as both measurement solution and loading systems experienced strong year-over-year growth.
Energy Infrastructure generated operating profit of $20 million with a margin of 13.4% a 28% increase in profit over 2010 and a 45% increase sequentially.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $11.1 million.
We expect this number to average approximately $12 million per quarter in 2012.
Other expense and revenue net reflects expense of $15.1 million.
In addition to our normal items this amount included the previously disclosed $8.9 million expense primarily related to an executive retirement offset by $2.6 million in foreign currency gains.
We expect this amount to range between $13 million and $15 million per quarter in 2012 subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
Our fourth quarter tax rate was 28.1% and we finished the year with a rate of 27.2%.
We anticipate our 2012 tax rate in a range between 26% and 28%.
Capital spending this quarter was $87 million primarily directed towards Subsea Technologies infrastructure.
For the full year 2011 our capital spending was $274 million.
We expect capital spending in 2012 to be approximately $350 million.
We will continue our expansion efforts in both Brazil and Asia Pacific while increasing our manufacturing and service capabilities in West Africa all related to Subsea Technologies.
We'll also continue to increase our ability to serve the shale markets through ongoing investments in our Surface Technologies segment.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had net debt of $280 million comprised of $344 million of cash and $624 million of debt.
We averaged 241.9 million diluted shares in the quarter.
We repurchased 1.1 million shares of stock during the quarter at an average price of just under $44 per share.
We repurchased a total of 2.7 million shares in 2011 with an average cost of $41.52 per share.
We finished the quarter with 17.3 million shares remaining in our share repurchase program.
Looking at 2012 we expect strong top line growth in Subsea Technologies with revenues estimated at $4 billion.
Our Subsea Technologies margin performance should improve as we complete the volume ramp-up become more efficient with our workforce and have a better distribution of projects at various stages of completion throughout our facility in 2012 while operating at these higher levels.
We are forecasting the revenue in the second half of 2012 to be better than the first half as we expect to experience some first quarter sequential revenue decline similar to what we have experienced in previous years.
We anticipate full year margins will improve and be in a range of 11.5% to 12.5% for the year.
We expect the back half of our year to be stronger than the first half.
As our performance improves and as pricing -- project pricing likely increases we should exit 2012 in a more favorable position than where it began thus improving margins in 2013 and beyond.
Our Surface Technologies segment is also poised to have another strong year as the North American shale market remains strong.
This market benefits both fluid control and surface wellhead especially in relation to our expanded frac offerings.
Additionally our surface business is seeing improved activity internationally and we expect this to drive better performance as well.
Barring a North American slowdown we expect margins for this segment to come in between 18% and 20%.
In our Energy Infrastructure segment we see improved market conditions for our 2 largest businesses: measurement solutions and loading systems.
As fourth quarter is historically our strongest quarter for this segment we expect some sequential revenue and margin degradation but anticipate full year margins will improve in the back half of the year and come in around 8% to 9% for the year.
So based on our outlook for the businesses we are setting guidance for our 2012 diluted earnings per share to a range of $2.10 to $2.25.
Operator you may now open the call for questions.
And your first question comes from Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the issues surrounding Laggan-Tormore.
That project I believe started shipping in Q1 of '11.
How far through the manufacturing process and shipment process have we gotten thus far? Let's talk a little bit about Laggan.
First of all to answer your question we're about 70% complete on that project.
The issue on Laggan which I mentioned in my remarks was a design interface issue.
It has to do with configuring the system for a vertical tree to work on a template manifold.
We don't normally do that.
It was the customer's spec and we had some interface issues we identified in the fourth quarter.
We're incurring additional cost to resolve and correct those interface issues.
We got a bit behind also related to that interface issue and now we're spending money incurring cost to get back on schedule and protect the delivery requirements to the customer.
We're about 70% complete.
We think we've identified all the cost associated with that issue.
And the fact we're 70% gives us some confidence that we're on the tail end of this project.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regards to project completion for West Africa what are the issues surrounding meeting the customer time line? They're -- although it's West Africa the real issue is in our Eastern region and ramping up fast enough just to protect the schedule on these West Africa projects.
It doesn't really relate to things in West Africa suppliers in West Africa.
It has to do with not ramping up fast enough getting behind.
And now we identified in the fourth quarter we're not going to make some of the contractual dates.
So we're incurring some cost there plus cost that we're incurring expediting cost to get us back close to schedule as we can.
But this isn't really an issue about West Africa suppliers.
We've been actually pretty successful in both Angola and Nigeria in managing the in-country local content.
This has to do with us not ramping up fast enough getting behind and now incurring cost associated with those delays.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when I think about the level of backlog you're currently geared to service are we pretty much there? I mean you're increasing headcount you said a little bit more slowly going forward.
But what's the level of backlog you're comfortable with? I mean obviously you're having some teething pains as we're ramping up manufacturing.
Should we expect significant additions to backlog as we go through the year? Yes.
But that's -- and as I mentioned in my remarks the subsea market is poised for an increase of more than 50% so we are indeed getting ready for a much larger market.
But we increased our activity from first quarter to fourth quarter by 40%.
We added 2 000 employees in subsea and onboarding and integrating those employees during 2010 is what challenged.
We underestimated the cost of integrating those people.
Now will that continue? Yes it will continue into next year the first half.
The ramp-up rate won't be as high in 2012 as what we saw in 2011 maybe half of that or something.
But it's very important for us Joe to get ready for the significant growth in subsea.
One of the big successes of our company and what's really driven us to the leadership position is our ability to execute projects on time.
And the only way to do that in our view is to continue our practice of adding capacity ahead of demand and more than ever that actually means people.
So we're going to continue to add people into this year.
And it still experience some of those onboarding issues that we experienced in the fourth quarter 2010 but I don't think the ramp-up will be as steep as what we saw in 2011.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess really what I was trying to get at was your level of utilization relative to your current employee base and whether you were comfortable with your ability to service the current backlog at current manufacturing capacity.
Yes.
We're definitely comfortable servicing the current backlog.
My comments were about getting ready for a much bigger backlog as we see the subsea market grow substantially going forward.
Your next question comes from Doug Becker with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You have some pretty explicit 2012 guidance a little bit of revenue guidance in the first quarter.
Just any parameters on subsea margins as we go into the first quarter? Presumably we don't see a large charge on Laggan again but just maybe some color around first quarter margins in subsea.
Well as I said we believe we have identified most of the cost associated with Laggan and the West Africa projects where we had these execution issues.
But the ramp-up -- the cost associated with inefficient onboarding of new employees will continue into the first quarter so that'll still be with us in the first quarter margin.
So also I'd say that the fourth quarter historically is strong for us in revenue and then it typically falls off.
There's a historical pattern where it falls off in the first quarter and that may have a bit of a margin effect too in terms of absorption and leverage.
So 2 things that would affect -- that I can think of that would affect the first quarter is continued onboarding of the ramp-up of employees and lower volume in the first quarter.
But I'll give Maryann a chance to respond to that.
Yes Doug.
We -- as I said mentioned in my remarks we are expecting margins in the range of 11.5% to 12.5% for Subsea Technologies.
We would expect the back half to be stronger than the first half.
We do see that slight ramp-up as we're talking about getting through the first and second quarters.
But we're pretty confident in that 11.5% to 12.5% as that ramp-up has leveled out.
Research Division</strong> And so is it reasonable to think about first quarter just adding -- some similar margins adding back the Laggan charge? Yes.
So if we just take a look at kind of the impact as we guided you roughly around 12% for that quarter versus the 7.2% we got a couple of things right? That Laggan was roughly accounted for about 40%.
John mentioned the delays in West Africa and inefficiencies there.
That's probably about 50%.
We obviously do not expect Laggan to repeat again or for that matter any other project like that.
As John said we don't have them.
We haven't had them.
We will see some of those inefficiencies continue but we're expecting not to see those with respect to the project delays.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's perfect.
And then just on the fluid control expansion and just are you seeing any changes in orders given that pressure pump has become a little of a -- more of a controversial topic these days? Yes.
And we understand that and we -- I'll try to address that a little bit.
We're all obviously aware of the lower natural gas prices.
But to answer your question directly we have not seen a downturn on our flowline order flow nor our surface wellhead so they remained strong.
I'll ask Bob to give some additional comments on the market for flowline.
Yes.
And as John said we're appropriately cautious about the natural gas fundamentals but our fourth quarter inbound in both the surface wellhead and fluid control were at high levels.
Fluid control matched their third quarter record level of inbound.
Both businesses surface wellhead and fluid control have the highest backlog in the fourth quarter of the entire year.
So we're encouraged by that and we're going to be cognizant of what goes on with natural gas.
But currently we continue to see liquid-directed drilling offsetting that.
Some benefit we're seeing from frac intensity increasing.
And of course on the surface wellhead side we're now benefiting by improved international performance which plugged us somewhat in the first part of 2011.
Your next question comes from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> John I was hoping you could just spend a moment just to reset force if you will to kind of the subsea landscape in general right now.
I know when Quest published their last forecast they were looking at a range anywhere from 500 to 700 trees in East book about 50% growth.
I'm just curious in terms of your market share.
I guess you're pegging around 40% for this year.
Can you just talk about what you see in terms of timing of orders? I know we've had an environment where orders have been pushed to the right.
Is that something that's going to continue? And how does pricing ultimately end up evolving this year? I think the expectation was maybe by the second half of the year we could start seeing some better pricing which would be positive for 2013 margins.
If you could just talk a little bit about that please.
Sure Bill.
Let's talk about the overall market.
We all need to be a little bit careful with the Quest numbers but there were 311 trees that were entered in 2011.
It just doesn't seem like a stretch to increase that number by at least 50% in 2012.
And why do we say that? In 2011 major projects over $100 million there was 9 or 10 major projects that were awarded.
We can easily see 20-plus major projects over $100 million that could be awarded in 2012.
Now they won't all be awarded but just -- if you got 80% of awards it's a significant increase from what we saw in 2011.
Further the distribution of these projects -- and you'll remember that in 2011 most of the projects were all clustered around the third and fourth quarter.
The distribution of the projects in 2012 is more even.
About 30% to 40% of them are in the first half of the year.
And as you've heard me explain before when you look at the specifics of these projects they're well into the tendering stage and the evaluation stage.
So we can see where there's 4 5 maybe 6 or 7 projects that could be easily awarded in the first half of the year.
So if even projects moved to the right and we know that they will move to the right they'll still make it in the year so that's encouraging.
Then there's Petrobras.
In 2011 there weren't significant Petrobras orders awarded.
But we know that based on the schedule for pre-salt completions as well as conventional completions Petrobras needs to get equipment on order in 2012.
We've been in conversation with Petrobras and I'm sure the other suppliers have as well which supports that idea that Petrobras is due for some big awards in 2012.
The Gulf of Mexico we're getting close to permitting levels and rig counts that approach pre-Macondo.
There's a number of projects that have been announced that are getting close to final investment decision so we'll see a stronger Gulf of Mexico in 2012.
And then Nigeria although we were successful in winning the Bonga project a lot of the Nigerian projects have been delayed because of the Nigerian petroleum law which I'm not going to forecast when that will get passed.
But I think it's safe to say that they're very close and that we should see some big awards in Nigeria.
So you put all that together and it makes a lot of sense that you're talking about a total market that's going to exceed at least 50% of what we saw in 2011.
So again I don't know if we want to go to the Quest number necessarily but we should anticipate a really strong market.
Now FMC sure in the last 2 years we had 60% and 50-plus percent market share driven mostly by our alliance partners and frame agreement arrangements.
Those levels aren't sustainable and we know that.
There's a lot of projects that are being bid.
The other suppliers that weren't eligible to participate in 2010 and 2011 will be eligible in 2012.
They need to rebuild their backlogs.
We know pricing will be -- continue to be intense while those backlogs are being rebuilt.
So we expect our market share to come back down to more of our normal levels getting our fair share.
So you take our fair share 30% to 40% times a really strong market we anticipate another strong year for us in terms of awards.
Then finally your question on pricing.
Before we see pricing improvement we need to have these big projects distributed amongst the other suppliers who have yet to rebuild their backlogs.
It isn't good enough for us to rebuild our backlog.
It's the other suppliers that need to get comfortable with their workload.
There's already been one award earlier this year to one of the suppliers that hasn't seen a big award for several years.
That should help.
Two or 3 more orders being distributed to the other suppliers should start to fill their backlog and we'd start to see some pricing I believe towards the second half of the year.
Now we won't see it show up in margins until 2013.
But I fully expect by the end of 2012 the second half of 2012 we'll start to see some pricing improvement as these possibly 20-some major projects start getting awarded and distributed across the whole subsea supplier base.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess just as a follow-up.
As you look John structurally at the business now you talked about the fact you've had to ramp up here in terms of personnel.
And we've developed inefficiencies which you've talked about for a few quarters now.
But as you just structurally think about the new Subsea Technologies segment here and people try to calibrate margins going forward maybe beyond 2012 is there anything you see that's changed structurally in this business to whereby maybe you don't get back to the margins you saw first quarter of '10 which were well north of 18% in that business but can this still be a mid-teens type of business as we think about everything kind of being executed properly and the company being rightsized and delivering efficiently? Bill you're absolutely correct.
This business can be in the mid-teens.
If you listen to Maryann's number in the segment we think we can get -- and you back out these project executions you get to the low teens.
You talk about pricing improvement and higher leverage because the higher volumes there's no reason why you can't add another couple of points of improvement and you get right to the mid-teens.
Absolutely I think that's where it can end up.
Your next question comes from Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question John on services aftermarket revenue within subsea.
You were referencing Gulf of Mexico getting back to pre-Macondo levels on permitting.
Just curious on your annual services and aftermarket revenue run rate within subsea as that factors into your $4 billion forecast here in '12.
I know typically it's run $600 million to $700 million.
Is it still in that bandwidth? Is it rising now? Or is it still somewhat retarded a little bit by the Gulf of the Mexico? That's a good question Joe.
Actually in 2011 we saw some pretty high numbers in aftermarket.
It was running close to 25-plus percent of our total subsea revenues.
So the number you quoted actually it's been a couple of hundred million higher than that.
And with the Gulf of Mexico coming back we would expect that to improve a little bit more.
The other thing that helps us on that number is well intervention.
We've got 3 systems running hopefully there will be more.
The utilization of those units keeps getting better and better so that's contributing to the higher percentage of aftermarket.
But it was actually pretty strong in 2011.
I think your number is probably a little bit low for 2012.
I think we'll do more than that in customer support.
Your next question comes from Mark Urness with Credit Agricole.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about -- John about how you would handicap the Brazil awards which are due sometime this year.
I mean it's going to be probably the biggest award of the year and I'm wondering how you would handicap that.
Mark we believe the requirements for Petrobras which will manifest itself in awards this year are very large.
We're hearing some numbers from Petrobras that are in the range of a couple of hundred completions per year.
They're going to have to distribute that load across the Brazilian supplier base.
And I think you know that we tend to do very well on the manifold side.
We do very well on the higher-end technology side.
But we like to play in the trees and we -- I don't think there's ever been a time when we haven't been successful in getting the trees.
So we would fully expect that we would get our share of the trees but some of it's going to have to be distributed to the other suppliers in the industry just to make the numbers high enough to be frank.
Now I think there's been some reports of some execution issues by some of the other suppliers in Brazil and I'm sure Petrobras is going to take that into consideration.
We're delighted that we were able to deliver the complex Marlim project on schedule.
Most of our deliveries out of Brazil are now on schedule thanks to our capacity additions that we made over the last couple years.
It's really paying off for us.
We're on schedule and I think Petrobras is going to take that into account as they distribute these critical deliveries of their next pre-salt.
So I think it'll be distributed.
I think we'll be in the game.
We'll probably have a better shot at some of the manifolds but our performance I think will indicate that we'll be looked at seriously by Petrobras.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up relates to the Marlim subsea processing pilot.
We're all kind of anxiously awaiting the outcome of how that's going to go and it'll come out soon.
Maybe you don't want to comment on it but we'd be interesting -- interested in hearing your thoughts.
Well again as I've said it's a complex project.
Everybody is interested.
It means a great deal to Petrobras and the others in the industry.
It certainly helped that we delivered on time.
The installation of our equipment has gone fine.
It's been installed but it's not operating.
They have to finish the top sides work which is not easy.
It's pretty complicated because you've got a lot of equipment that has to go on the top sides.
There's not enough room.
They have to move things around.
It's pretty complicated.
That's the work they're doing now.
When that will be completed and when they'll turn on our subsea system and make it operational I can't say.
I'd -- I would -- I'll hope though that it'll happen the middle of this year.
And then I'm anticipating your next question.
How long will the assessment period go? I don't know.
I know they're anxious but it's important technology.
So they're not going to just turn it on for a day and claim victory.
So I think it'll take maybe another 6 months before they complete their evaluation but I'm frankly just guessing here.
I think though the thing to keep in mind is just how important this is to Petrobras.
They're not going to waste any time getting this thing evaluated.
But it's so important and the technology is so important for their future I'm sure they're going to make sure that they're convinced it's doing everything that they hoped it would.
Your next question comes from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the growth in subsea that you see do you see much of a mix shift of off-the-shelf type products versus what you've done in the prior 2 years and how it would possibly affect the margins? Because I think in the past you'd said that some -- mostly the Gulf of Mexico is more off-the-shelf type products.
Yes.
There -- well Robert there are -- I don't know about a mix difference.
The thing I would say in 2012 the awards are coming from big projects particularly in West Africa.
And those tend to be more unique than call-offs in the Gulf of Mexico or the North Sea where we have these frame agreement and the equipment is a little more standard.
But at least the equipment that we provide we're providing standard components in both big projects and small call-offs.
And I'll cite the big awards we got in North West Shelf Australia: Woodside; Greater Western Flank; Shell Prelude; and then of course we're pleased with the Chevrolet Wheatstone.
All 3 of those projects are using our standard new enhanced vertical tree design.
So even though the full field layout is unique on these big projects the components -- well at least in our case the components and particularly the trees are standardized.
So I think the whole industry at least in our case we're moving towards the standard components.
In terms of standard configuration of the whole system big projects not so much.
Call-offs like we experienced in 2011 and 2010 yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just regarding more of the industry do you think that you are further along in your expansions and obviously the associated growing pains that go with it within the subsea market versus some of your other competitors since obviously your backlog has filled up a lot quicker? Right and that's a -- that is an excellent point.
I think we're different because we rebuilt our backlog over the last 2 years.
And one of the things that that did for us was give us the opportunity to hold on to our organization and in some cases build our organization.
I think it'd be pretty hard for some of the other suppliers who haven't maybe had a major award in a couple years and brought their backlogs down to really support some of those kind of investments.
And it's not just the money in the investments but you have to have projects for people to work on.
And I think that's one other thing that's going to help us.
In 2010 and 2011 we had -- we were still running a lot of projects and that gave us the opportunity to bring talent on give them the experience they need so that we're ready.
So yes I think we benefited by rebuilding our backlog over the last 2 years and developing the talent.
I'm very hopeful that that's going to be one of the things that makes us a little bit different going forward and being ready for this big growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Does much of the 2 000 headcount increase within subsea does that come from within the industry? Or is it more people who are green behind the ears? Well unfortunately they're kind of green.
And the reason is that the subsea industry it's very very specialized.
And as the market leader we've got a lot of the talent.
So there really isn't a pool or a population of experienced subsea technologists.
You have to develop your own.
And so I think one of -- that's probably one of the things that's contributing to the higher cost of integrating these very new young engineers into our organization.
There just isn't a population of experienced subsea technologists out there and our approach has been to develop our own.
So those 2 000 employees they were new -- by and large they were new graduates learning the ropes and it'll take several years for them to get down their learning curve.
Your next question comes from Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> John I was wondering if you could comment a little bit about subsea processing and how much of this year's much larger subsea equipment orders involves subsea processing and just where -- a few of the important milestones in that area you foresee for this year.
Robin when I look out over the next 2 years the number of named subsea processing projects is fairly impressive.
It's over 20.
Now they won't all survive.
When I look at this year the number's a little lighter.
It's a little less than 8.
Most of them are -- this year are boosting as opposed to boosting in separation.
We tend to do -- well the dollars are bigger and we tend to do better when separation is included because of the separation technology that we hold.
So I would say for the market over the next couple years it -- clearly it is growing.
This technology is being adopted.
When I look at 2012 I'd want to be a little more modest about subsea processing contributing to the much higher or to the increase in subsea inbound.
I think we expect to pick up a couple of subsea processing projects this year.
But I wouldn't say that it'd be a real big contributor just because the dollar amounts are little bit lower and the numbers are a little bit lower.
But this is going to change over the next couple years.
But I'd say for 2012 I wouldn't attribute the big increase in -- or the increase in subsea awards for us to subsea processing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Another question I had was going to the area of fluid control.
You spoke about the greater frac intensity higher levels of field replacement parts.
In terms of your revenue stream or your backlog is -- how big a portion of that is this kind of aftermarket ongoing servicing of installed base of fluid control equipment? Yes.
Robin this is Bob.
In 2011 we had about a 45% portion of our total inbound that was what we call CapEx or fleet build.
So we expect in 2012 for that to shift more toward the field.
We're looking at more like 55% field replenishment activity and a little smaller portion of CapEx in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if -- so that's -- you're relatively stable.
But if these frac-ing companies at least in North America stop building new fracturing fleets or slow down the pace of building new fracturing fleets then this is an ongoing kind of repetitive business and you would expect no change there.
I -- you have to keep in mind new frac build is not always additions to horsepower for them.
They have their normal schedule for replacing the fleet as it ages and so we always have that element of CapEx.
Obviously internationally all the service companies that we're talking to are actively looking at expanding their fleets internationally.
So you've got that element of CapEx.
It's always going to be in place.
So to expect a significant or wild shift from between CapEx and field replenishment is probably unlikely in our view.
Your next question comes from Ed Muztafago with Societe Generale.
I was wondering if you could just maybe talk a little bit about sort of how you see the Brazilian pre-salt development play out.
And I guess specifically by that I mean historically as you know Petrobras likes to break up awards but the sub-salt stuff is going to be relatively non-standardized.
And so do you think there's the potential for some bundling of I guess equipment manifolds trees et cetera when we start to see a lot of these pre-salt awards pick up? No I don't see.
There's no indication they're going to change their strategy.
They -- for years they have separated the manifolds the umbilicals from the trees.
They've separated that from the wellheads.
There's no evidence that they're coming off of that structure at all.
You're right in that the pre-salt trees are more complicated.
They have tree-mounted controls which is not the way the conventional ones are.
So the trees themselves become more complex.
And I think Petrobras has to take that in mind because they'll be giving tree awards to suppliers who have not provided controls before.
So I think that's going to be an issue for Petrobras not for us because we've provided controls in Brazil.
The -- I think the issue for Petrobras is the sheer quantity of equipment.
They -- they're going to have to spread and distribute the tree awards to multiple suppliers.
And because the trees are more complex I think they're going to have to think about that.
I think that helps us.
I think we'll be probably in a better position to maybe -- again to participate in the pre-salt trees just because of their complexity.
But there's no evidence that I've seen that they're -- that they have any plans to bundle and mostly because they're just comfortable.
That's the way they've done it and there's -- I don't see an advantage to bundling.
Maybe there's a disadvantage particularly if you're worried about your supply base and providing all this equipment on time.
Sure.
Sure.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then just maybe a little bit of a higher-level question here.
As you guys sort of -- as we think about FTI relative to peers when you look at Brazil when you look at West Africa where a good portion of the deepwater development lies these new reservoirs are going to be largely depletion drive and so of course the demand for boosting and reinjection is going to be much higher there than we've seen in some other regions.
Is there something unique to FTI from a competitive position that we should think about that may put you guys in a little bit better position from your product or service portfolio for awards in those regions? Ed absolutely.
This idea of increased oil recovery whether it relates to West Africa or Brazil I mean it relates to everywhere.
We're leaving hydrocarbons in the reservoirs of these deepwater wells.
Statoil's clearly leading the industry in increasing oil recovery.
So I think that you're right.
It's definitely true in Brazil and in West Africa but don't leave out the other regions.
They have the opportunity as well.
And because there is this opportunity our company has built our longer-term strategies to be sure that we're positioned to capitalize on that.
That's why we've taken the leadership position in subsea separation which is in boosting which is specifically designed to increase the recovery rates and deal with the depletion numbers of these reservoirs.
The same is true with our intervention -- our Light Well Intervention systems.
One of the ways to boost recoveries improve the depletion rates is by doing more subsea interventions and the industry is asking for low-cost intervention methods which we've invested in for the last 6 to 7 years.
So I think what you articulated is exactly our strategy.
And we feel that definitely in terms of subsea processing separation and boosting we're anywhere from 3 to 5 years possibly ahead of the other suppliers because we now have 7 commercial applications of subsea separation more than anybody else.
So yes I think we're -- it's an important part of our strategy.
We're trying to position ourselves to have a strong leadership position through our technology and experience because this is the next big growth area for subsea.
Sure and even outside of separation obviously.
Could you guys potentially break out or give us an idea of what just the cost overruns from West Africa were in the quarter? Yes.
It's Maryann.
As I mentioned 2 pieces that we're talking about one the inefficiencies and the West Africa piece.
And when we talk about the difference in the margin from what we guided it to versus what we delivered those 2 elements together kind of account for about 50% with more of that on the West African delays as opposed to the inefficiencies.
Okay.
So the delays were a greater portion than the inefficiencies there.
That's correct.
Your next question comes from Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a very quick one hopefully one-word answer to this.
The CLOV project this was awarded about the same time for the same customer as Laggan.
Is the interface design similar there that there may be an issue with that project? Or is that completely unrelated? Well it's unrelated to Laggan.
We received Laggan well before we received CLOV.
As we said on Laggan we had this engineering interface issue so that makes it unique.
CLOV is one of the West Africa projects that is affected by the delays in the ramp-up and the cost associated with improving our delivery.
But they're not related in the sense of -- they were inbounded at different times.
I mean they're all related in the sense that we're having to catch up and they're delayed and we're incurring cost.
But no there's no direct relationship between CLOV and Laggan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
No design.
Yes that was the question.
No.
No.
No.
They're very different.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
Okay.
Following off of that as we look at -- you built up all this personnel and staff.
And we run through 2012 and based on what you're guiding us you have a pretty decent margin exit rate.
As we go into 2013 if we've got a substantial build in projects in 2012 is it believable that it's going to be tough to really improve margins through 2013 as we're back into kind of the heavy front-end engineering for all the projects that we're -- that theoretically are booked in 2012? Is that how we should look at kind of moving forward through to model into '13? Well first of all in 2013 we have the benefit for the pricing improvement that I described.
So in terms of margins we'd expect the pricing improvement in the market to start to show up in 2013.
Now as we work through our backlog in 2013 we're going to have a mix of margins.
We're going to have some margins that we're executing that go back to 2011 and 2012 and then there'll be some margins that were executing that relate to an improved pricing environment in 2013.
So there's going to be a mix.
And depending on what percent we complete of which project the mix is going to drive some of the margin variability.
But it's all going to be trending in the right direction because we'll be replacing lower-margin 2011 2012 business with higher-margin -- or I'm sorry higher-margin in 2013 on back half 2012 pricing improvements.
So it'll all be trending in the right direction in 2013 but we're going to have mix of both 2010 2011 and 2012 2013 differences in pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Finally on the surface -- sorry Maryann.
Go ahead.
No.
No that's okay.
Now if I just might give you some other color there as we think about -- we've received this strong inbound.
And now as we continue to move out we're going to be executing these projects at various stages of completion more evenly across our portfolio than we have kind of coming off of that 2008 2009 downturn.
So we think that'll add to the efficiency as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh yes.
That makes perfect sense.
Following on the surface question with the execution of over 20% margins this quarter and then the guidance of 18% to 20% is that a hint of conservatism? Is there an issue with mix? Or why are we guiding for the trend to be downward in 2012 from the exit rate? Yes.
Well as you know in Surface Technologies we've talked our surface and our fluid control businesses are a part of that.
Part of that is mix as you can understand.
We -- in the fourth quarter we talked about our improvement in our execution issues.
We're going to see our international market on that side improve.
We're also going to see perhaps a greater distribution in our fluid control business of well service pumps as well.
So it's just a bit of mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you primarily talked about improvements.
I guess I'm trying to figure out what leads it to average below the exit rate on the negative side.
Yes.
So again surface is a larger percentage of that.
And so -- and that piece is growing faster than what we're seeing in terms of fluid as well.
And your final question comes from Robert MacKenzie with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to what you talked about John about subsea processing this year being a couple orders.
Would one of those be the Ormen Lange compression deal you expect to win? And what else would you expect to kind of recognize this year apart from that if that's the -- 1 of the 2? Well I don't know that we expect to win Ormen Lange.
We're participating in a feed.
And whether or not it -- but that's definitely one that's on our target.
There's a Shell project which based on our relationship with Shell we would be hopeful that we might be able to get that or it's actually 2 Shell projects that we'd like to participate in.
So there's a couple.
I probably wouldn't put Ormen Lange at top of the list only because I'm not as convinced it'll be awarded in 2012.
But there's a couple of Shell projects that look like they might go and we'd be positioned for those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how would you characterize the order of magnitude of each of those? They're relatively small.
We've said before that a boosting project is in the $50 million range.
So they're not multiple systems in the $100-plus million range.
So they're relatively small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then wanted to come to the surface well business.
I know you gave some good color in the commentary or Bob did on the fluid control orders and backlog being kind of at record levels.
How would you describe the similar comments for the surface wellhead business in terms of inbounds and backlog? Well same thing.
I mean surface wellhead had its best quarter in terms of inbound.
That's largely driven by the improvements in international that John talked about.
Earlier in the year we work sitting waiting on a lot of the orders to come through particularly in Asia Pacific and that's beginning to happen.
We're still -- there are certain parts of our European region that suffers places like Egypt places like Angola.
But we're seeing pickups in activity in other places like Libya and certainly Iraq is picking up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful color Bob.
And then Maryann if you would you kind of -- I think if I recall correctly you guided infrastructure margins of 8% to 9% in 2012 versus close to 10% in 2011.
Can you give us a feel for why the margins are going to contract there? Yes.
Sure.
You're correct.
We did guide to 8% to 9% and it's really just a mix of the businesses included in that segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you expect as part of that revenues to be down year-over-year? Or...
No we're expecting revenue improvement year-over-year in that segment.
This concludes our fourth quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our first quarter 2012 conference call on April 25 at 9 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Angela you may now end the call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the FMC Technologies First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] In the event of technical difficulties during this call we will post updates at www.fmctechnologies.com/earnings.
Thank you.
Your host is Brad Alexander Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin your conference.
Thank you Christy.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statement issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our first quarter 2012 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our Executive Vice President.
I'll start with some highlights from the quarter.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
We're pleased by the continued strength in both our Subsea and Surface Technologies markets.
The subsea market opportunities continue to grow and our recent Petrobras pre-salt award positions us to exceed our 2011 subsea inbound total.
Slowing expansion of capital assets related to the North America pressure pumping market present some challenges.
But the field activity in both North America and internationally continues to expand.
Regarding the results for the quarter.
Earnings were $0.41 per diluted share a 17% increase over our prior year quarter.
Total company quarterly revenue was $1.4 billion and operating profit was $162 million.
Subsea Technologies inbounded $1.4 billion of awards in the quarter and our backlog now stands at a record $4.7 billion.
Revenue for the quarter in Subsea Technologies was $895 million an increase of 30% over the prior year quarter but as anticipated a 7% decrease sequentially.
For the year we still expect to generate approximately $4 billion in subsea revenue.
Subsea margins for the quarter were below our expectations at 8.4% primarily reflecting additional costs related to CLOV project in West Africa.
Our Eastern Region project execution issues identified in the previous quarter are now largely behind us.
With our continued expectation of significant subsea market growth we added almost 500 employees to our subsea workforce in the first quarter.
We recognize that headcount additions are challenging our near-term margin performance but we remain convinced that the investments and resources are necessary to support the anticipated market growth.
Surface Technologies first quarter revenue of $378 million was up 30% from the prior year quarter and in line with the fourth quarter.
North America shale activity remains strong for both fluid control and surface wellhead.
However as the frac lead capacity comes more in line with current demand we think some spending on further horsepower additions will be reduced.
As long as the North American rig count remains relatively stable we think the field portion of our fluid control business should remain strong.
Execution has improved for surface wellhead as we've recovered from the challenges we faced internationally last year.
Going forward we remain confident in the outlook for global surface markets.
Returning to the subsea business.
In the first quarter we inbounded 85 subsea trees and this represents 48% of the industry tree awards.
Our Petrobras subsea award of 78 pre-salt trees including controls confirms the expanding market opportunities in Brazil and represents the largest Brazilian subsea award to date.
There were 3 large subsea awards announced for the industry during the quarter and the list of projects we're tracking remains very strong.
If many of these projects are awarded as we expect we should see an improvement in the pricing environment.
Looking forward in 2012 we expect to generate approximately $4 billion in revenue in our Subsea Technologies segment with margins improving in the coming quarters and inbound awards exceeding the numbers we recorded in 2011.
We also expect our surface wellhead business to continue its strong performance globally.
And in fluid control our field replacement and repair business should remain strong while we anticipate slowing orders related to decreased horsepower expansion in the North America pressure pumping market.
We're maintaining our full year guidance in the range of $2.10 to $2.25.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter and for the full year.
Thanks John.
As was noted Subsea Technologies operating profit was $75 million in the quarter with a margin of 8.4%.
In the quarter subsea operating profit was negatively impacted primarily by higher estimated costs for the CLOV project.
These increased costs primarily related to labor hours will ensure our ability to achieve our current schedule.
As expected we also experienced higher labor expenses associated with investment in our expanding workforce to support subsea growth.
Subsea Technologies inbound for the quarter was $1.4 billion the majority of this attributable to the Petrobras pre-salt award in Brazil.
The investments we have made in both facilities and talent in Brazil were key considerations for this Petrobras award.
Surface Technologies operating profit for the quarter was $78 million a 52% increase from the prior year quarter and a 2% increase from the fourth quarter.
Fluid control activity was strong in the first quarter and again helped to produce strong earnings and margins within the segment.
On the surface wellhead side we continue to see the benefit of our expanded service offerings in North America as rig count remains at a healthy level and our investments in deployable frac assets has improved our ability to serve our customers.
Our international operations continue to improve as we expect their contribution to the overall segment results to grow during this year.
Orders for Surface Technologies for the quarter were $425 million as fluid control activity levels remained strong and surface wellhead had its best quarter on record.
Backlog exiting this quarter stands at $628 million for this segment.
As John noted we believe that the horsepower expansion that has occurred over the last 2 years in the North America pressure pumping market is slowing.
With approximately half of our fluid control sales over the last few quarters resulting from this expansion we have some market risk.
At this time we have had cancellations of only a few orders along with some order delays.
However we believe we will be able to offset much of this exposure with field replacement and repair sales which are expected to remain strong.
Margins in the first quarter were 20.7%.
While these were above our annual guidance we anticipate that the surface wellhead business will become a larger piece of the overall segment going forward.
This combined with some decline in our fluid control revenue supports maintaining our previously guided margin range of 18% to 20%.
Energy Infrastructure operating income for the first quarter was $9 million double the amount from the first quarter of 2011 but half the amount we recorded in the fourth quarter.
Our year-over-year increase came largely from improved results in both measurement solutions and material handling.
The sequential decline was in line with our expectations as our fourth quarter is typically our strongest.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $8.4 million.
We expect this number to average approximately $12 million per quarter in 2012.
Other revenue expense net reflects expense of $20.9 million.
This was above our guided range as we experienced some unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations.
We expect this amount to range between $13 million and $15 million per quarter in 2012 again subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
Our first quarter tax rate was 23.7%.
We anticipate our 2012 tax rate to range between 24% and 25% for the full year.
Capital spending this quarter was $92 million primarily directed towards Subsea Technologies' expansion initiative.
We expect capital spending in 2012 to be approximately $350 million.
This does not include any spending for acquisitions.
Expansion projects for Subsea Technologies are continuing in Brazil Asia-Pacific and West Africa.
These expansions further support our optimism for subsea growth over the next several years.
In Surface Technologies we have substantially completed our fluid control expansion.
We are also nearing completion for additions of frac rental equipment related to surface wellhead business.
We continue to evaluate the demand for deployable frac rental equipment to meet anticipated market demand.
At the end of the first quarter we had net debt of $380 million.
It was comprised of $362 million of cash and $742 million of debt.
We averaged 241.3 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
Our first quarter Subsea Technologies revenue was in line with our expectations of finishing 2012 with approximately $4 billion of revenue.
While we have identified some higher costs to deliver a few subsea projects in our backlog we remain confident that these are isolated to issues resulting from our rapid subsea ramp-up in the Eastern Region and expect to see the benefit of our workforce additions in the coming quarters.
These projects which are experiencing higher estimated costs to complete will cause our full year subsea margin performance to be dampened given their revenue contribution expected in 2012.
However we continue to expect to meet our current delivery schedules for these projects.
As a result we now believe we are likely to come in at the lower end of our full year margin guidance range which was 11.5% to 12.5%.
As we stated last quarter we still expect the second half of 2012 to be markedly improved over the first half.
Regarding the Surface Technologies segment we are maintaining our margin guidance in the range of 18% to 20% for the full year.
However if the North American market suffers a severe slowdown we could fall below this range.
In our Energy Infrastructure segment sales of $137 million was 33% above prior year.
Margins while slightly lower for the first quarter are expected to average 8% to 9% for the full year.
So in summary as John stated we are maintaining our full year guidance in a range of $2.10 to $2.25 per share.
We are optimistic that pricing for new subsea awards will improve once industry backlogs are filled.
This combined with our improved execution should improve margins in 2013 and beyond.
We are confident our investments in subsea capacity and people will provide us the capability to deliver this growth.
Operator you may now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first audio question comes from the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> John and Maryann a question with regard to subsea margins.
Lower end of guidance reemphasized so 11.5%.
8.5% in the first quarter kind of rounding up a bit.
How should we think about the roadmap to margin evolution as the year unfolds? I recognized that's higher.
I mean it has to be for the math to work.
But how much of a hockey stick should we count on for the second quarter? And also in that vein what was the impact -- the margin impact of CLOV in Q1? And if you x that out what would the margin have been for subsea? Okay Bill.
Let's start with the subsea margin improvement.
First of all it will be back end-loaded.
It will be primarily in the third and fourth quarter.
It will come from improved project mix which includes things like growing subsea services which have a higher margin.
Clearly it will come from better execution.
We'll also have higher revenue in the second half of the year and there should be some margin improvement due to leverage on that higher revenue.
And then the headcount growth which has dampened margins -- we added 500 people in the first quarter.
That will start to slow.
So those are the reasons that caused the margin improvement -- or behind the margin improvement in the second half of the year.
But it will be deep into the third and fourth quarter.
I'll let Maryann talk about the impact on CLOV.
Yes.
We have not specifically quantified CLOV as you can see from our estimates.
But if we go back to our fourth quarter we talked about a couple of things that happened.
Obviously we had Laggan-Tormore.
We talked about some anticipated charges for potentially deliveries and of course our efficiencies associated with our headcount.
So the only real difference from what we expected was actually the impact of the higher cost anticipated for CLOV completion.
Our estimates for headcount additions quarter-over-quarter are pretty consistent.
Let me also address your other question about the first half versus the back half and the run rate.
John gave you clearly all the rationale for why we think our back half is going to be stronger.
We're looking -- we realize that we need to probably generate somewhere in the neighborhood of 13 plus or minus percent in the back half the year to achieve that 11.5%.
And as John talked about higher revenues lower headcount additions much better execution and higher revenue should get us there for the full year.
Research Division</strong> So if we do 13% in the second half of the year are you looking high single-digit low double-digit for the second quarter? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then secondly with regard to surface and the mix shift -- or sorry fluid control and the mix shift between capital equipment and the field portion of that business as the year unfolds? Assuming that in fact we're going to see a slowdown with regard to capital equipment orders which I think probably looks very likely at this juncture.
What's the margin impact on that mix shift? Yes.
I'm sorry Bill.
That would -- it's favorable.
We're looking at the back half of the year on Surface Technologies.
We'll see some growth coming on the surface side and we're expecting to see a little bit of slowing on the fluid side but it's positive.
Your next audio question comes from the line of Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit -- John you've had a common refrain with regard to competitors filling their backlogs and that supporting a more positive pricing outlook as we go forward.
I guess I just wanted to get an update in terms of when you're bidding on projects obviously you guys are going to be involved in pretty much every major project in the world.
Are you seeing tangible signs of improved behavior out of your competitors yet or is it still on the come? Maybe talk about how your feel of what's going on in the market has changed over even the last 6 months or so.
Okay.
We haven't seen pricing improving yet because we've still got to fill up their backlogs.
But there clearly is an understanding that the significant increase in subsea activity in 2012 and quite frankly what we now see in 2013 that it is starting to materialize.
We had 3 major projects over $100 million representing almost $1.5 billion awarded in the first quarter.
2 of those projects went to a competitor who has been very aggressive in pricing.
So this is starting to manifest itself these projects that we identified in 2012 are starting to be awarded more evenly throughout the year it looks like with 3 projects awarded in the first quarter.
And they're being distributed to some of the other competitors who need to rebuild their backlog.
Now we haven't seen the pricing improve because these projects you can appreciate they were awarded in the first quarter.
There were probably bid almost 1 year ago.
So we need to see more projects be awarded distributed throughout the subsea suppliers and then we'll start to see some subsea pricing improvement.
I think what's encouraging though is that the expected or anticipated growth in the subsea markets is really starting to materialize.
We see that now with Brazil.
It's always hard to predict the timing of Brazil awards.
So the award that pre-salt award that we won that was very encouraging and there's more to come.
We're seeing the Gulf of Mexico start to improve.
Permitting is back to pre-Macondo levels rig counts almost back to pre-Macondo levels.
We're even seeing it in our aftermarket business in the Gulf of Mexico starting to get back to pre-Macondo levels.
And a number of projects for Shell BP Exxon and Anadarko are all starting to materialize.
So with the strength of Gulf of Mexico the large number of projects almost 50% or more versus what we saw in 2011 are all supporting a very strong market in 2012.
And I think all the subsea suppliers are starting to recognize that that's coming and hopefully that will influence their pricing decision.
But we need to get these awards made and distributed to the various subsea suppliers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's extremely helpful.
And just to kind of follow up on that you went through a very detailed kind of roadmap into your margin guidance for subsea.
Just so I understand is any of that pricing baked into your 2012 margin guidance? Or is pricing something that hits '13 and beyond given the lead time and kind of your percentage of completion accounting? Collin you're exactly right.
We don't expect to see this pricing show up in our margins on the P&amp;L until 2013.
And even in 2013 we'll have a mix of prepricing improvement backlog and improved pricing.
So we'll see part of it in 2013.
And then obviously in 2014 we should see the full effect of it.
But we need to get these awards made.
We need to have all the suppliers start to feel the effects of getting their backlogs strong.
Then we'll see pricing improvement and then it will start being recognized in revenue.
So yes definitely not in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Final one for me a little housekeeping.
On the Petrobras award that you had this quarter and I apologize if I missed this in the prepared remarks how did that fit into the backlog? What percentage or what portion of the trees booked with that and revenue associated with that was in the backlog? Right.
The way Petrobras -- the way we negotiated this with Petrobras is they gave us -- we negotiated a price and a contract for 130 trees representing about $1.5 billion.
Petrobras guarantees 60% of it so we inbounded 60% of that number or 78 trees or about $950 million we inbounded in the quarter.
Petrobras has the option to call off the rest of that which we think if they do it they'll do it within the next year or so.
But that's what's in the backlog is 60% of the contract award.
Now how that'll -- I don't know if I'm anticipating your next question -- how will that flow through the P&amp;L? Very little in 2012 because we'll just be doing engineering.
Maybe 20% 25% of it in 2013 and then we'll get deep into it in 2014 and '15 and '16 when we deliver off of that 4-year requirement.
Your next audio question comes from the line of David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I want to stick with the Petrobras award here.
Just kind of curious about some of the technical aspects of the pre-salt.
One of the hallmarks of your strategy and we see here is to try to standardize as much as possible particularly the larger awards.
I'm just wondering is that the case with this award? In other words when you bid this are you assuming fairly uniform designs across with pre-salt or will there be kind of multiple designs? You just said there's going to be a lot of engineering next year.
I'm just kind of curious is there going to be engineering throughout? I mean is everything going to be a little bit different here? And I'm -- obviously I'm getting back to -- I'm trying to figure out what the margins are on this project versus kind of some of your other larger projects.
Okay.
Let's start with the technical aspects of pre-salt.
First of all the pre-salt awards are not just 1 standard Christmas tree as you saw in the conventional frame agreement that was awarded 2 or 3 years ago.
There are a number of different styles of tree.
What we concentrate in our award and this was intentional on our part is we wanted to be successful in negotiating contract for 1 style of tree large quantities so we could minimize the number of -- the amount of engineering and get into high-volume production.
So the award that we got is a vertical tree.
It's 1 style of tree and there are multiple styles to support pre-salt.
But we won an award for 1 style of tree vertical tree.
It is more complex than the conventional trees because it's higher-pressure has to handle the CO2 which requires full clad which is a special [indiscernible] nickel clad to prevent corrosion and then it adds controls.
And I think you'll remember David that the controls typically are on the manifold for a conventional non-pre-salt tree.
But for pre-salt trees they're on the -- it includes controls which makes the tree more complex more value.
And for us I'd say it's an advantage.
We're the I think the only supplier that's demonstrated in-country controls manufacture.
So we're pretty well positioned to deliver well on this style of tree.
Now the future pre-salt equipment will be different styles.
They have some requirements for a horizontal tree some requirements for pressure trees and those will be awarded presumably later this year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
You mentioned manifolds.
Didn't see any manifolds in here.
Why -- is there another award coming on the manifold side? Or are they trying to go -- one of the things I've heard is maybe there will be fewer subsea trees per FPSO therefore you wouldn't need manifolds.
Is that something that they've talked to you about? Yes.
No we anticipate that there will be a pre-salt manifold award.
In fact we're in discussions with Petrobras on that very subject.
Now the manifolds for pre-salt will be different in that they will be not as complex because they won't include controls.
And I think -- well probably for us anyway there would probably be a more competitive environment because we can see other -- because these are simpler manifolds we see other suppliers being qualified for the manifold.
So it would be a little bit more competitive than what we've seen on conventional manifolds where we've tended to dominate that market.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the Brazil.
I'm just kind of curious about your capacity.
Now one thing you've been very careful to highlight that this is not just about the number of trees you can make it's more about the project teams you could put together as it relates to capacity.
How does your now capacity look in Brazil? Are you kind of where -- about as far as you can go? Or can you take on more? How do you think about your capacity in Brazil? Are you thinking about trying to build that out through project teams or what-not? Well we're pretty well positioned in Brazil.
Right now we've -- we are executing extremely well out of our Brazilian facility all the GLL kind of equipment the big manifolds.
As you know we delivered the Marlim processing equipment on schedule.
So our Brazil organization is really executing at a high level and therefore we have a lot of confidence that we have the capacity to handle this pre-salt award.
I think you also know that we spent almost $130 million in capital expansion in Brazil.
That's largely complete now.
We inaugurated our subsea technology center in January which includes high bay manifold fabrication capacity.
We've added almost 300 employees in Brazil over the course of the last year taking us from 1 500 employees to over 1 800.
So we feel very good about our capacity to support not only this pre-salt equipment but potential work with the international operators.
I think you know we've been very successful with international operators and there's work to come from BP Shell and Chevron.
So we feel real good about where we are in capacity.
We think the investments that we've made over the last 2 years and the additional headcount particularly the 300 employees that we added last year really positions us well.
Research Division</strong> And you just said subsea -- or you were just talking about subsea processing on the Marlim.
Is that -- a has that been turned on yet? And b are you in discussions with the second one? My understanding is they want to see a couple of those working before they commit to kind of a little bit longer-term.
That's correct.
The Marlim subsea processing equipment was installed in December.
It's not operable yet.
And the reason is is that Petrobras has got to reconfigure their topside facility and that is clearly taking longer than what we expected.
We expected and thought by now we'd have our Marlim system in operation.
But apparently there's more challenges on getting that topside equipment ready than what we anticipated or what Petrobras anticipated.
I have to be honest I don't know how much more has to be done to get the topsides ready so we can get Marlim turned on.
I would hope it would be next couple of quarters but I honestly don't know.
And I think they have to see that Marlim equipment operational before they make their decision about how they proceed for ordering more equipment to support the Marlim field.
Your next audio question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's actually Justin for Kurt.
A couple of questions.
One just a broader kind of industry question on the pricing environment.
You were -- you've mentioned before that several large projects need to actually be awarded for competitors to fill up backlog.
One project in particular if it's out there the Stockman project looks like it may be redesigned and delayed.
Just curious to see how that may impact the timing of competitor backlogs going up and what that does for the pricing environment outlook? Yes right.
But first of all let's talk about Stockman.
Yes it does look like now Stockman is going to move.
I just kind of don't want to predict the Russian project because this thing has moved for a number of years.
But it's going to -- if I had to guess I'd say it's 2013 and beyond.
So your question is moving Stockman out what does that do for competitor pricing? Well obviously that's a big important project and would have filled up somebody's backlog.
But there are plenty other projects on the horizon for 2012.
So I don't think Stockman is going to have a meaningful effect on our ability to see pricing.
There are plenty other projects out there.
I think the thing I'd like to mention though is that one of the things that we're seeing different now is the number of companies that are actually bidding these projects.
During the downturn when people were really hungry to build up their backlog pretty much everybody was bidding on every project that was available because there weren't that many.
There was only 8 or 9 in 2011.
Now that we see that there's almost 20 projects we see fewer competitors bidding.
Instead of 3 or 4 bidding we see 1 or 2 -- or not 1 or 2 2 or 3.
And that's I think changing the competitive dynamic.
I'd like to think that that's kind of the first signs of competitors holding back a little bit and being more selective.
So maybe that's a precursor to pricing improvement by having fewer competitors bid some of these projects.
But to answer your question directly I think the move out of Stockman I don't think it will have a material effect on the pricing improvement that we're looking for because there's plenty of other projects in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful on the dynamics there at play.
I wanted to also ask on CLOV there was mention that more labor hours were needed to keep the project on track higher costs associated with that.
Is that do you think largely behind you at this point? Or is there potential for more labor hours to creep in in the second quarter and beyond as well in order to keep the project on schedule? Right.
First of all I'd say the additional hours were result of resources that we needed to protect the schedule.
We got behind for many of the same reasons we got behind on the Laggan-Tormore because of this rapid ramp-up of activity in our Eastern Region.
So this was largely isolated to the Eastern Region and it's about that ramp-up where we got behind and now we're playing catch-up.
So we're adding hours adding labor hours to protect the schedule.
One of the things that gives us confidence that we have identified all the additional costs is because the engineering is now complete.
And about 85% of the procured costs are either locked in or identified.
So with that much of the project being done we have more confidence that we've identified all the additional costs that will take to successfully deliver the CLOV project.
Your next audio question comes from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> John what was the non-manufacturing revenue for subsea in the first quarter? The aftermarket revenue was almost close to $200 million which represents 20% to 25% which what we've always said.
Our aftermarket revenue is about 20% of our total revenue.
So it was right in line.
And I think I mentioned the Gulf of Mexico customer support or aftermarket revenue was back to pre-Macondo.
So we had a pretty strong quarter in customer support.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Thinking about Surface Technologies I think Maryann said that about half of fluid control is frac pumps and half is WECO/Chiksan.
Of Surface Tech how much of that segment is fluid control in and of itself? Yes.
I'm not sure that I made exactly that comment.
Sorry if that was the takeaway.
But in terms of the revenue component of Surface Technologies the surface business is a greater component of that segment than is fluid control.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So something like 55-45? Yes about so.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I think about the backlog how much of the backlog in that segment is just the pumps? Well the majority of the backlog in fluid control is pumps.
Now in the segment which is Surface Technologies which is both surface wellhead and fluid control as you know we're sitting on a record backlog for surface wellhead internationally right now.
So we've got a very strong backlog position in that business.
But in fluid control if that was your question the majority of the backlog is well service pumps.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob does it fall along revenue lines? Or is there a difference in mix? That is is 45% of the backlog pumps? Or is it greater or less than that? No it's about that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay and then John for you when we think about industry capacity utilization in subsea it looks like on Quest numbers the most trees that we've ever installed in any given year is 390-ish and that's versus about 500 awarded.
What do you think industry capacity for manufacturing trees is today? And where do you think we are in terms of utilization of that capacity? Joe I don't know.
I mean if the most we've done is 390 as you say then we know that the whole industry has been adding capacity so presumably it's higher than that.
We've had this conversation before.
When we think about capacity we think less about physical capacity and tree capacity because the real constraint is that technical talent that's required to design and project-manage these big subsea projects.
And when you look at the number of projects that are out there and how complex some of them are that's going to be the constraint.
But yes I'm sure that the industry's capacity is now at the 400-plus range because of the capacity adds that have been made.
But again quite frankly that's not the constraint that at least our company worries about.
Your next audio question comes from the line of Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was surprised the advanced billings accounts didn't get more of a pop given the large subsea awards in the quarter.
Any details around that? Or does that mostly come with the manifolds? Yes.
We haven't really seen much change in our advanced payment structure so there wouldn't really be a difference between the inbound in trees and the inbound in manifolds.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there much of a margin difference especially as -- within Surface Tech as you shift from more of an international mix versus domestic? No there's no difference.
Your next audio question comes from the line of Rob MacKenzie with FBR.
Research Division</strong> John I guess my question is for you and it's a little bit more prospective than just looking at CLOV.
With the industry looking to go through a continued ramp in growth here how are you guys trying to get ahead of the curve? And are -- have you been trying to get ahead of the curve in terms of your headcount your processes your planning your tree designs to minimize instances like Laggan-Tormore and CLOV going forward? Well we've been -- let's start with physical capacity.
We've added -- we've spent almost -- close to $300 million last year and we're on track to spend $350 million in capital spending almost exclusively to expand our physical capacity to support subsea growth.
We started that 2 years ago.
It will be in place well ahead of when we need it to support the growth in subsea so we're very confident in our physical capacity.
The challenge for us is with the supply chain particularly in areas like Brazil.
And we spend a lot of time developing new suppliers to support the growth.
And then as you know the biggest challenge of all is having enough technical talent to support a significantly larger and really more demanding subsea environment.
Despite the fact that we've been very successful in standardizing our components these big subsea projects demand a lot of technical talent project management talent to successfully execute them.
As you know our company is determined to have the highest level of execution performance in the industry.
And the way to get that accomplished is by having the resources in place to execute without any issue.
And that requires investments and it's been a little bit painful.
We added 2 000 subsea people last year and we added 500 this quarter.
It takes several years to get them down their learning curve.
That's hurt our margins but we're convinced that these are the kind of steps that you have to take in order to be ready for this ramp-up.
The other thing that I think has really helped us a lot is that we rebuilt our backlog in 2010 and 2011 and we didn't have to dismantle any of our organizations.
The one area where we did it a little bit was in the Eastern Region in 2009 where we had some headcount reductions.
And then 1 year later we won 3 major projects had to ramp up -- such as CLOV Laggan-Tormore and the Statoil projects and we got behind in the ramp-up.
We don't ever want that to happen again so we're making these investments in people today so that we really are prepared for the significant growth we see in 2012 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> So given the challenges there when does that turn into material pricing power? Do you have to wait until your competitors get filled up? Or will your customers pay you more for top-notch execution? Clearly the customers will pay for top-notch execution but you have to demonstrate it.
And that's what we're getting ready to do.
I think as the market grows those suppliers that haven't prepared for this growth are going to have challenges with regard to execution.
And we're counting that we'll have execution performance that will be significantly better because of these investments we've made and we'll be able to support higher prices as a result of that.
But your question was when do we get there? And I think that's later this year and into next year as these projects are awarded and the industry sees the challenges associated with operating at a much higher level of activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful answer.
And my separate topic of questioning goes to subsea processing.
Obviously Petrobras as you mentioned earlier is waiting to see Marlim start flowing before moving forward and analyzing that.
What else are you seeing? Any updates in processing and new projects and prospects around the world since we talked last? Yes.
When you look at 2012 there's already been 2 subsea processing awards.
One for a [indiscernible] multiphase pump and the other was for Gullfaks with gas compression.
So we've had 2 awards already.
That didn't come to FMC but your question was where are we in terms of the industry adopting subsea processing technology.
So we've had 2 awards already.
There's a couple of more awards that could occur in 2012.
And then when you look at 2013 I've got a list of 10 or 12 projects.
No they won't all happen.
But once again we're seeing the industry start to adopt this technology and the number of named projects start to increase.
It's not going to be smooth it's going to be kind of lumpy as our industry is.
But if you look out the next 18 months you've got over 1 dozen projects that could happen in subsea processing.
Research Division</strong> Would you care to characterize how many of those would involve water separation? On my list I've got 4 or 5 that include separation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what would be the 1 or 2 closest ones? Can you name names? Well they move around a lot but the Eni 15/06 has -- well I'm just talking about boosting now in 2012.
There's a project.
There's also a Total project in the Congo.
So there's a couple of those kinds of projects that are out there.
Those would probably be the earliest.
At this time there are no further audio questions.
Are there any closing remarks? Yes.
This concludes our first quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our second quarter 2012 conference call on July 25.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Christy you may now end the call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the FMC Technologies Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] In the event of technical difficulties during this call we will post updates at www.fmctechnologies.com/earnings.
Thank you.
Your host is Brad Alexander Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin your conference.
Thank you Robyn.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our second quarter 2012 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our Executive Vice President.
I'll start with some highlights from the quarter.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Our second quarter operating profit was a record $203 million and revenue was $1.5 billion.
Earnings were $0.46 per diluted share for the quarter which represented an 18% increase over the prior year quarter.
Looking at the overall market the subsea industry continued to see a healthy level of awards in the second quarter and the expectation that this year's industry award total will exceed 2011 by more than 50% appears almost certain.
This increase in subsea activity will rebuild backlogs and drive improved pricing.
North America shale activity continues to shift from dry gas to liquid-rich plays that now account for over 70% of the market.
Liquid plays have also begun to show some signs of risk as the natural gas liquids prices have fallen at a more significant rate than oil.
U.S.
rig counts are essentially unchanged sequentially and remain at levels that provide some confidence in the sustainability of the repair and replacement portion of our fluid control business and our surface wellhead business in North America.
Looking at the Subsea results revenue for the quarter in Subsea Technologies increased 18% over the prior year quarter and 6% sequentially.
For the year we continue to expect to generate approximately $4 billion in Subsea revenue.
Subsea margins increased in the quarter as project execution improved.
The Laggan-Tormore project in the North Sea reached a critical milestone when the Subsea manifolds were delivered in May as required by the customer.
This project is now near completion.
Subsea Technologies inbounded $878 million of orders in the quarter which included 17 subsea trees.
Our backlog now stands at $4.3 billion.
Following the end of the quarter we received a $200 million award for Statoil's Gullfaks South field development in the North Sea.
The project includes 7 subsea production trees and 2 manifolds.
This development has potential extensions for an additional estimated 30 subsea trees with the possible additional value exceeding $600 million.
In addition to Statoil conversations with our frame agreement customers remain very positive and are focused on their large multi-year portfolios of offshore assets and how to best develop these projects.
With $55 to $60 per barrel appearing to be the level many operators are using to justify these deepwater developments and access to international reserves for most international oil companies continuing to be largely limited to deepwater basins we remain optimistic on the prospects for the subsea market over the coming years.
When we look at the subsea market regionally both Africa and the Gulf of Mexico activity will be substantial and many of our frame agreement partners have major developments in these areas.
In West Africa the largest project in the region Total's Egina development in Nigeria should be awarded before the end of the year.
Multiple large projects in Angola are also likely to be awarded over the coming 12 to 18 months and activity in Ghana is also on track to see coming awards.
Lastly new prospects in East Africa primarily Mozambique are encouraging the light here a little bit further out on the horizon.
In the Gulf of Mexico Shell BP and Exxon Mobil have large discoveries that should see substantial activity relating to their subsea requirements in the coming 2 years.
Additionally permitting is at pre-Macondo levels and rig activity continues to strengthen in the Gulf of Mexico returning this region to one of the most active in the world.
Regarding subsea processing we now anticipate the Petrobras Marlim systems to be operational in the next couple of months and we continue to expect separation to play a significant role in increasing production from high-water pipe levels in Brazil.
We've completed qualification testing of our helico-axial pump developed by Sulzer.
We've seen significant customer interest and expect to begin to participate in project bids later this year which would be awarded in 2013.
In our Surface Technologies segment second quarter revenue of $414 million was up 33% from the prior year quarter and 10% for the first quarter.
Margins came in at near-record levels in the second quarter as we continued to work through our fluid control backlog.
We still expect to see a decline in fluid control sales in the second half of the year but believe this could be largely limited to reduced sales related to our customers' slower fleet expansions.
International results for our surface wellhead business were very strong as activity in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East increased significantly.
This is in contrast to the North American activity that is flattening consistent with the rig count.
We closed 2 acquisitions in the second quarter that will add to our Subsea offerings.
First we acquired the remaining 55% of Schilling Robotics.
As the scope of subsea fields expand including more mechanical components and equipment requiring manipulation on the seabed we think Schilling's portfolio will play a major part in our ability to successfully pioneer and serve this new market.
Second the Control Systems International acquisition provides us with controls technology that we believe is going to be integral to our ability to more effectively expand the capabilities of our subsea processing business.
Looking at the second half of the year we continue to expect Subsea Technologies to generate approximately $4 billion in revenue with margins improving in the coming quarters and inbound awards significantly exceeding last year.
We expect our surface wellhead business to continue to grow largely driven by our strong international presence.
And in fluid control we remain optimistic that our fuel replacement and repair business will remain strong offsetting some of the expected decline related to decreasing sales related to horsepower expansion in the pressure pumping industry.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter and for the full year.
Thanks John.
Subsea Technologies revenue was $946 million up 18% over the prior year and 6% from the first quarter.
Subsea operating profit was $110 million in the quarter and includes a $13.2 million net benefit associated with the purchase accounting of the Schilling acquisition.
Excluding this benefit our Subsea operating margin was 10.2% for the second quarter reflecting overall improvements in our execution.
We saw operating margin progression again this quarter as we had anticipated despite the impact of the margin contribution from the challenged Laggan-Tormore and CLOV projects.
We also realized the effects of a stronger U.S.
dollar especially in relation to the Brazilian real.
This impacts our Subsea operating results by $9 million when comparing to the prior year quarter as the dollar strengthened.
We continue to expand the Subsea workforce as projected to prepare for the inbound expected in the next several quarters as John commented.
We expect to see margins improve in the next 2 quarters as we experience better project execution benefit from higher volume and see a mix of higher-margin work in the second half of the year.
We expect Subsea margins to average between 12.5% and 13.5% in the second half of 2012.
If we achieve the top end of this range we will see full year Subsea operating margins of approximately 11.5%.
Assuming quarterly margin progression due to improving execution we should exit the year with Subsea margins at or above 13% as we head into 2013.
Subsea backlog was $4.3 billion at the end of the quarter and was negatively impacted by the strengthening dollar by approximately $275 million.
As John said we anticipate solid Subsea inbound in the second half of the year and forecast full year Subsea revenue at approximately $4 billion.
Surface Technologies operating profit for the second quarter was a record $84 million a 49% increase from the prior year quarter and 8% increase from the first quarter.
Fluid control activity remained strong in the second quarter and again helped to produce strong earnings and margins within this segment.
In the surface wellhead business improved performance internationally helped strengthen both operating profit and margins compared to the prior year quarter.
Orders for Surface Technology for the quarter were $366 million.
Surface wellhead orders were higher both sequentially and compared to prior year.
Fluid control began to see the anticipated decline largely related to reduced customer orders associated with horsepower expansion.
Backlog exiting the quarter stands at $574 million for the segment down 9% sequentially due to reduced fluid control inbound.
We have not experienced any order cancellations since our first quarter earnings call but are seeing very little flow relating to capital expansion.
We continue to think we can offset much of this exposure with fuel replacement and repair sales which are expected to remain steady.
We expect our fluid control revenue to be down approximately 25% in the second half of this year compared to the first half of this year with more of the decline occurring in the fourth quarter.
Margins in the quarter were 20.3%.
We anticipate these margins will decline in the second half of the year and thus are maintaining our previously guided margins in a range of 18% to 20%.
Energy Infrastructure operating profit for the second quarter was $9 million down 15% year-over-year.
This was largely related to lower volume in our loading systems business as a result of the timing of inbound.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $10.4 million.
We expect this number to average approximately $11 million per quarter in the second half of 2012.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $29.7 million.
This was above our guided range as the amount includes $13.7 million of mark-to-mark adjustments related to the earn-out liability associated with our Multi Phase Meter acquisition made in 2009.
We expect other revenue and expense net to range between $14 million and $15 million per quarter for the remainder of 2012 of course subject to foreign currency fluctuations and the potential for an additional mark-to-market adjustment related to the Multi Phase Meter acquisition.
Our second quarter tax rate was 28.5%.
We anticipate our 2012 tax rate to range between 25% and 27% for the full year.
Capital spending in the quarter was $99 million primarily directed towards subsea.
We expect capital spending in 2012 to be approximately $350 million.
We invested approximately $340 million combined for the acquisitions of the remaining portion of Schilling Robotics and for Control Systems International.
These both close near the end of April.
We purchased approximately 500 000 shares of common stock at an average price of $40 per share.
At the end of the quarter we had net debt of $941 million.
It was comprised of $270 million of cash and $1.2 billion of debt.
We averaged 241.5 million in diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
So in summary we believe our full year Subsea operating margins are likely to range between 11% and 12%.
This does not include the net benefit associated with the purchase accounting of the Schilling acquisition.
We are confident Subsea results in the second half of the year will show significant improvement.
Regarding the Surface Technologies segment we are maintaining our margin guidance in the range of 18% to 20% for the full year.
We anticipate a decline in revenues of approximately 25% in the second half of the year from lower fluid control business being partially offset by the strength in the international surface market.
In our Energy Infrastructure segment margins are still expected to average 8% to 9% for the full year.
As a result of our outlook we are narrowing our EPS guidance for the full year to a range of $2.10 to $2.20.
Operator you may now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> John sort of looking out beyond this year and assuming that the Quest prophecy of continued significant growth in subsea tree awards is going to persist over the next 3 or 4 years we get to something approaching call it 800 trees awarded to the industry on 2016.
I think you were awarded last year 165 trees and let's just -- I know you don't have a forecast for this year but my assumption is that you'll get something close to if not in excess of 200 trees.
Assuming you have a 40% market share thereabouts that would call something like 320 trees for 2016.
Do you guys have the people and the manufacturing capacity to actually deliver that within 3 or 4 years in the event that comes to pass? We think we do Bill.
As you know we've been -- and Maryann mentioned our capital spending so we are preparing for a significantly higher level of subsea activity not just because of the Quest numbers but because of the visibility we have through our partnerships.
So we've been making the investments to make sure we have brick and mortar in the physical capacity but as you pointed out in your question what we focus even more so on is the unique subsea technical talent.
We  talked in the last quarter about the number of subsea technical heads that we added that we've been adding actually over the course of the last couple of years and we'll continue to do that to ensure that we have the capacity to keep up with the pace of the market growth and maintain our market leadership position in the business.
Research Division</strong> Do you -- I mean you probably do whether you want to share it or not is another question -- but do you have a sense as to what today you're able to manufacture and crank out in terms of number of trees and what you're targeting? Well we do but I -- as you know I think -- we've talked about this before in calls.
We focus less on tree numbers and tree capacity because for us as a subsea systems provider we're more focused on providing all of the equipment that makes up a subsea system and that certainly goes way beyond trees.
And we believe that the real constraint is some of the technical talent that we need to develop some of these systems.
So I could give you a tree number but I don't think it's the most important number and quite frankly in terms of tree capacity that's driven mostly by the brick and mortar machine tools and I have a lot of confidence that we can continue to increase that physical capacity I mean whatever tree demand we face.
So yes I think we just don't think about it in terms of tree numbers because it's the ability to successfully deliver design manage big subsea EPC projects that we focus on.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> John just a question with regard to the order outlook here on subsea.
I think you've again reiterated your expectation for orders in '12 to be higher than 2011.
And I think commendable results here in 2Q in the fact that you didn't have any real what I guess people would call nameplate press announcements with regard to subsea awards during 2Q yet booked almost $900 million worth of orders.
Could you talk about just in the second half of the year is there anything with regard to the big projects that you all are tracking that you see by name being awarded here in the second half of the year to get you to those type of order numbers? Right.
Well you're exactly right Bill.
I mean the first quarter we had strong inbounds driven by Petrobras almost $1.5 billion.
We're pleased with the almost $900 million that we booked in the second quarter given that we didn't as you say have a nameplate project.
That puts us at $2.3 million right after the quarter closed.
We announced another $200 million key order for us from Statoil so we're sitting at $2.5 million.
We're pleased that the call-off projects from our partners were a big part of our inbound in the second quarter.
Also our aftermarket business remained real strong in the second quarter.
So if that keeps going and the fairly good size number of large projects that will be awarded in the second half -- if we're successful in picking up the projects that we've targeted in the second half we believe that we'll as I mentioned in my remarks we'll easily surpass the almost $4 billion that we inbounded in subsea orders in 2011 and quite frankly the number could start to approach almost $5 billion if one of those big projects is awarded to us.
So somewhere between $4 billion or $5 billion is probably a good target for us for inbounding in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
John you all have been very aggressive here in adding headcount in preparation for these increased orders.
I'm just curious as you guys have gone out and really kind of trained the industry I guess in some respects here and put yourself in a position to succeed on this backlog.
Are you seeing here as your competitors get their backlogs filled up an aggressive move toward some of your more experienced employees here that you have trained out there in your facilities on a global basis? It's a good point though.
I mean we're very focused on retaining our talent.
We've made these investments over the last couple of years.
We continue to make investments in this talent.
We've put a lot into developing them.
We don't want to give them up easily.
Certainly in some of our locations where we're surrounded by other companies and other industries that need subsea talent we're more vulnerable.
We're particularly pleased that our retention issues in places like Brazil have been very positive but in other areas we're very concerned.
I think Houston is a location that is particularly vulnerable and we're very focused on making sure that we retain the technical talent.
But surely there's no question that as the subsea activity heats up and those companies -- not just our competitors but even some operators and consulting firms as they try to respond to this increase in activity they'll realize that they don't have the talent and they'll target our people.
But I think we've been very focused on it and our retention metrics are holding up pretty well.
But it's not going to go away.
It's a real concern of ours.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just one last one for Maryann.
Net interest expense up in the quarter I guess looking at the balance sheet at June 30.
Is it reasonable to expect Maryann something in maybe that $8 million to $9 million range a quarter here for interest expense going forward? Yes you're right Bill.
We obviously had on higher debt first half of the year; interest expense a little bit higher.
I don't expect it to continue to trend at that same level for Q3 and Q4.
Our cash flow forecasts call for us to see some fairly significant changes in our working capital structure.
So I wouldn't anticipate that the back half of the year in interest expense will look like the first half of the year.
We'll see that come down.
And the next question is from the line of Joe Hill from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> John I was wondering if you could give us an update on some of the other projects that had been causing you guys a little bit of indigestion.
You indicated you hit the milestone on Laggan-Tormore which is great to see.
Where do we stand with CLOV and maybe some of the smaller projects you've been doing for Statoil? You're right Joe.
What we called out in the last couple of quarters is our Eastern Region North Sea and some Africa projects.
We're struggling as we responded to the increase in activity and certainly the first one was Tormore-Laggan which -- and meeting that milestone was really important for us and I -- clearly important for the customer.
We're pleased with that.
We're 90% complete on that project so we think that's largely behind us.
But we also talked in the last quarter about CLOV and we're not -- we're only about halfway through CLOV.
So there's some risk with CLOV right now.
We feel that our Eastern Region has started to stabilize.
We're starting to dig out of our issues.
But with only 45% to 50% of the project complete we're still exposed to some execution challenges.
Right now though it's stabilized.
Same is true for our projects with Statoil in the North Sea.
We've been largely holding our delivery dates but those projects again aren't near at the level of completion that Laggan-Tormore was and so we're exposed to some risk.
But we feel based on our progress in the second quarter that the situation in the Eastern region is starting to stabilize.
But we're still at some risk with CLOV and the Statoil projects in the North Sea.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was surprised by the magnitude of the potential availability for orders out of the Gullfaks South above and beyond what you guys have press released.
Can you give us an idea as to what the timing of that might be? Well -- and I was quoting that actually from a public release and so that's not kind of something that we know but that's the indication that Statoil have given us.
When they gave us the first call-off on Gullfaks they were very clear that the significance of that award went well beyond the $200 million first award.
So that's pretty much all consistent with what we've heard and what they're telling us that there's a lot of potential for this particular project.
Your question is about timing and it's several years off.
I mean it's not near-term on the horizon that the rest of this inbound will show up.
I think the significance though is that because we won the first tranche then we're positioned to participate in the rest of the project which is -- which as we pointed out is not small.
It's significant.
So I think that's the important point is that we'll have the opportunity to participate in that much bigger of a business but it's several years away.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow up.
Do you guys have an idea as to the number of industry trees that shipped in the quarter? Not so much that shipped.
We know the number and we have an idea of the number of trees that were awarded which is a little different answer but I think it is actually important.
We -- there was almost 100 trees that were awarded in the quarter which brings our year-to-date total to 270-plus.
And then if you consider the possibility of these number of projects will be awarded in the second half we're on track for a 450s of 500-plus tree award year in contrast with the 311 trees that were awarded in 2011 which supports the idea that the industry not just us but the industry is really looking at that significant uptick year-over-year in activity.
And your next question comes from the line of David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> John on the past calls you've talked about midyear as a potential turn in subsea pricing.
I was wondering if you could just give us an update on your thinking.
I'm just kind of wondering if it gets pushed out a little bit with some very light industry awards in the second quarter? No I think just the contrary David.
I think it's tracking as we expected.
We said that this year there would be a number of major subsea awards particularly awards that were tendered.
That's happening.
We had almost 7 major awards in the first half.
We got a handful of awards that are going to be awarded in the second half so that's materializing.
The other thing that we said is we thought that these awards would be more evenly distributed amongst the subsea suppliers and they would have the opportunity to rebuild their backlog which they haven't had in 2010 and 2011 where we took a very large share of the market.
That is also happening.
When you look at a tree awards over the last couple of quarters you see some of the other suppliers booking a number of trees that can be 2 and 3x what they had booked in 2010 and 2011.
So I think what's happening -- what we expect is coming to pass in that the awards are happening.
They're being distributed to the other subsea suppliers.
They are starting to rebuild their backlog.
And I'd expect the next sort of round of awards would start to reflect pricing improvement.
Now on a more anecdotal sense when we look at the competitive intensity in 2010 and 2011 if there was a tendered project pretty much all 4 subsea suppliers were in there going after it.
If you look back over the last couple of quarters and although there was always competition it wasn't quite as intense including ourselves.
We -- a number of projects that were awarded this quarter -- second quarter and first quarter we didn't participate in and some of the other suppliers also backed off.
And to me that would be sort of a precursor to an improved pricing environment.
Research Division</strong> So in kind of what you're seeing right now in the conversations that people are having about different projects your sense is that people are being a little bit more disciplined on the pricing side now? Yes I think they're being more selective just as we are.
Research Division</strong> That's great to hear.
Your guidance on Subsea for the second half of the year is around 13%.
If I think about 12 months from now kind of the second half of next year taking out kind of the first half seasonality can we start thinking about maybe a couple of hundred basis-point improvement? Or does it take a little bit longer to work through backlog? It's going to take longer because as I said we're -- I'm seeing the pricing environment improve but we haven't seen the awards that reflect that pricing improvement.
So that has to happen then it goes into backlog and we have to execute it through the P&amp;L.
So we've said that we'll see a -- maybe a little bit of it in the back end of 2013 but it's not until you get into 2014 that the pricing improvement really starts to show up in the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you talked about $55 to $60 as the oil price for a lot of these offshore development projects.
Curious about the cost of maybe the smaller awards because I think one of the things that we've noted in the past cycles is really that a lot of these smaller awards can really help your numbers.
I'm just wondering about the -- kind of the onesies and twosies.
How do you think about those? It seems that those should be a little bit more oil price sensitive and I'm just kind of curious of what you're hearing out there? Are you starting to see more of those inquiries starting to come up? And how do you think about the oil price and how it factors in? Well it's all over the map.
The price of  -- the oil price that makes these fields economical is driven more by the geology and the geography and so it's kind of all over the map.
There was a I think a recent survey by Goldman who had the numbers sort of all over the map.
I mean in some cases it was as low as $40 that I saw; in some cases as high as $70.
But I think the $55 to $60 range is correct.
With regard to smaller projects no we're not seeing any oil price sensitivity.
In fact it's just the opposite.
With our partners including some of the smaller independents it's really just the opposite.
They have very large deep-water portfolios and their conversations with us are about how can we deal with this increase in activity and are we getting prepared.
So we don't see -- whether it's a large operator it's one of our partners or a smaller independent that's also partner we're not engaged in any conversation that suggests they're starting to back off in terms of the developments based on a weakness in oil price.
And the next question is from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a quick update maybe a sensitivity assessment on this 25% reduction on your Surface revenue back half versus first half.
Is that -- would that still hold true let's say in a band of flat rig count to maybe down 10%? I'm just trying to get some gauge some sensitivity on what point that 25% may get a little stressed? Yes.
I mean the reason we're saying the 25% reduction is driven primarily by the expected and even what we've seen decrease in the capital orders for fluid control.
And we've assumed that the North America rig count would stay flattish to support our surface wellhead business and the repair and refurbishment of our treating iron from fluid control.
If there were a modest reduction in the North America rig count we'd see some effect.
But I think the 25% half-over-half reduction is still valid.
I don't think we've stretched that too much.
Obviously if the North America rig count completely imploded then we'd be talking about a different number.
But that's not what we're anticipating.
I don't know.
I'll let maybe Bob comment additionally on that.
Yes.
I think that's exactly right.
The only other factor that's out there is even at the current rig count we are seeing the pressure pumpers use less horsepower on these liquid-rich plays.
It really is a function of smaller diameter casing strings that are being employed in those applications.
So that's embedded within the 25% reduction second half versus first half.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then you referenced some partial offset on the surface wellhead internationally.
I think you also indicated that that was predominantly kind of a Mideast-driven if I heard you correctly? I just wondered if you might be able to give a little more color around what you are seeing in the international for surface and how sustainable do you think that trend may be? Well you're absolutely right.
The international strength is really strongly occurring in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East.
So we're seeing pockets of strength in places like India Australia Thailand Indonesia both onshore and offshore and of course the Middle East is particularly strong in the UAE Kuwait Saudi Arabia and Qatar.
And interestingly enough in the quarter we booked a very large order in excess of $20 million for a high-pressure equipment in Kyrgyzstan.
So we're starting to see some opportunities materialize there that we hadn't seen in the past.
And the next question is from the line of Rob Mackenzie from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Question for you John.
It seems like you guys have been hiring technical talent at a pace if I might by my estimation a fair bit faster than your competition and probably your customers as well.
Coming back to the retention comments you made earlier John can you give us some more color and feel for how you plan to retain those people? And also what does that mean for cost inflation going forward as you retain the people you need to deliver on the growth? Well first of all you're exactly right.
I don't know how the others are preparing for the expected growth.
One advantage FMC has is because of our partnerships we have more visibility.
So we know through our partners not only what their activity level is going to be we know that that work is coming to us.
So that gives us the visibility that allows us to plan and start preparing which maybe others don't have.
But that's only good if you act on it which is why we're adding the technical talent that you referred to.
Retention.
There isn't one thing that retains talent.
It's many things.
We understand that.
Certainly from a compensation point of view we have to have that covered.
I don't believe that we feel that that is going to make us uncompetitive or have a significant material effect on our financial performance because that's not the only thing that we use.
People work for companies and stay for companies because companies are leaders.
They're technically progressive.
It's a good place to work.
They have career advancement.
And so far our track record -- if you look at our retention rates all those things are working in our favor to hold onto talent.
We're also being careful about where we put the talent.
We created a new technology center as you know in Brazil and we located it right next to the university.
It's very very popular with our younger talent.
As a result our retention statistics in Brazil are fantastic and I think it's because we do those sorts of things which are important to retaining talent.
So it's not one thing.
It's not just about compensation.
We've got to get everything right and our company is focused on doing it and the metrics we use are I think are supportive that we're able to hold onto our talent.
But it's not lost on us how big a challenge it will be when the industry realize that there's not enough talent -- technical talent to support the rapid growth in the industry.
So it's going to remain a concern of ours but we're very focused on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then coming back to the pricing question.
Maybe I'll ask it a bit differently.
Maryann I believe got it exiting the year's Subsea margins at or above 13%.
Clearly it seems like most all of that if not most of -- if not all of that is just executing on what you have in-house better than you have in the past couple of quarters.
Where does that top out? Or what's the -- put another way what's the -- roughly what's kind of the range of margins in your backlog here that would be kind of the limit you could achieve without seeing pricing gains roll through the P&amp;L? Right.
So you're exactly right.
The 13% assumes that we get back on track with regard to execution.
But it also includes some mix of our backlog that we can see as it rolls through the P&amp;L plus higher volume when we expect some leverage.
Again maybe partially are offset by the costs that we're incurring by adding some of this talent but it all adds up to something around 13%.
Then we roll into 2013 starting at 13% and as we continue to grow the top line there should be some opportunity for leverage but it's going to be fairly modest until we see some of the pricing improvement start to show up.
We may see a little bit of that on the back end of 2013 but we want to be -- we should be -- expect sort of only modest improvement.
It's not till the -- we really see these awards at much better pricing get booked and then start to roll through the amount.
So I think it's better to look at 2014 at when that realistically could occur.
But you go into 2013 at hopefully around 13% -- of course typically our first quarter is a little bit lighter but after that assuming we continue our execution improvement and we get little bit of leverage from the higher volume we might some modest improvement off the 13%.
And your next question is from line of Robin Shoemaker from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask if in the Marlim project you had actually operated the subsea processing equipment? And sort of generally related to that what's your outlook for subsea processing opportunities as you see it today? As you know we delivered Marlim subsea separation and boosting on schedule to Petrobras late last year.
We were a little disappointed in that it took a while a long while actually more than we thought for them to reconfigure their topside facility to accommodate the topside equipment related to the subsea processing system.
It now appears that they've got that work completed and they're proceeding to commission the subsea separation boosting system.
So what we understand is in the next month or so the subsea separation and boosting system that we provided will be commissioned and will be operational.
And that will be a very important milestone because that's when Petrobras will begin to start to evaluate the operating effectiveness of that system.
At some point after that which I can't predict Petrobras will make the decision whether or not they want to proceed with this technology for the rest of the wells in the Marlim field.
And I really can't predict when that will be.
So it's sort of one milestone at a time but we're very close to having the system operational and getting the -- beginning the evaluation by Petrobras.
But we know that if that technology is accepted that there's a tremendous potential for Petrobras to use it to deal with the high-water cut that they're experiencing in the Marlim field.
In a broader sense the outlook for the subsea processing remains very positive.
This year we won't have as many awards say as we had in 2011 but we always expected this to be lumpy.
When you look out into 2013 the list of subsea processing awards a mix of separation and boosting and boosting only is very strong.
I think we count over the next 2 years almost a dozen-some projects.
Now they won't all go ahead but that's very encouraging.
Further what you can't see quite as clearly is the interest by the operators.
Every major operator has either done some sort of R&amp;D project a feed study a joint industry project to begin to understand the application of subsea separation and boosting for their company and that's very encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Do you include subsea compression within that whole processing entity? Yes we do.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Great.
Then I just -- my other question was on the award that you booked in the first quarter 78 I think of a potential 130 trees in Brazil.
Is that on track for the awarding of the rest of that bunch of the 130 tree award some time by the end of this year early next year? Well we know that Petrobras has a significant pre-salt requirement.
We got the 130 tree award.
We booked 78 trees because that's what they guaranteed.
Another supplier got a smaller award with pre-salt.
We think there will be some additional tree awards.
It's not as clear what the timing will be.
We knew that Petrobras was anxious to get some trees awarded.
Now that that's accomplished I'm not sure how fast they'll proceed with the remaining tree awards.
What is out there is the pre-salt manifolds because they haven't made any awards on pre-salt manifolds and we suspect that they're anxious to get some manifolds on order.
We think that between now and the end of the year there will be a couple of manifold awards for pre-salt by Petrobras.
That's we would expect.
So you should look for that and then of course we're focused on trying to participate on that as well.
And the next question is from the line of Jud Bailey from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the Surface business.
When you look at all the moving parts you've obviously got a nice growing component internationally some weakness in North America.
I was wondering if you could just kind of help us think about kind of the progression on order levels and how to think about maybe the downside to orders and maybe when we see the order levels perhaps stabilize.
Is that something that happens in the fourth quarter? Or something that happens even in the first quarter of 2013? Well I think the biggest risk is North America.
And we've been saying right now the North America rig count is flat and so that supports the existing level of business.
And then as Bob described the -- what we're seeing on the upside is international because we're actually -- when you look at FMC our market position is much stronger internationally than it is in North America.
So as international goes up we're the beneficiary of that and that's what Bob described.
I'll let Bob talk to additional risks beyond the North America rig count.
Well I think the most prominent issue that we don't understand clearly going forward is the fluid control inbound heading into '14.
The pressure pumpers typically either have their foot on the accelerator pushed to the floor board or their foot on the brake and that can change very very quickly.
And typically later in Q3 early Q4 we'll begin to get a better picture of what their capital spending plans will be for the following year.
So it's just premature for us to predict what they may do in terms of fleet expansion or fleet replacement whether international opportunities will drive them to do something more aggressively than they've done this year.
So that's the big unknown really.
I mean on the surface wellhead business North America it's really rig count-related and we don't expect to see that move around too much but it's that CapEx piece of fluid control that's going to have to materialize and we'll see that later this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay let me ask you another question on that.
If -- given the growth you've had in that business in the last couple of years and I look back going into early 2010 you had orders of around $250 million in early 2010.
To get back to an order level like that in your mind would that represent a pretty bearish scenario? Or is that something that could be likely if the rig count is flat or modestly down? Again I just don't know because it's not really rig count-related as much as its CapEx-related and what the pressure pumpers view as their kind of ongoing demand for additional horsepower.
And that could come as a result of something other than North America.
And we're going to have to wait and see how they react later this year when they put their capital plans together for the following year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on CLOV.
You talked about some of the risks that you're still concerned about on that project.
Could you maybe just give us a little more color and maybe just give us some color on what you're specifically concerned about? Is it cost overruns the delays or kind of all of the above? Well the CLOV project suffered from the same things that Tormore-Laggan did in our North Sea projects and that is our Eastern Region booked quite a bit of business at one time and we didn't respond as quickly in hindsight as we should have in gearing up and so they got behind.
And so CLOV is an example of that where we were having to play catch-up to make delivery dates.
So that's the risk.
There is another risk and that is that because CLOV is in Angola and there is a local content requirement -- and we've been very successful in local content in Angola but were more dependent upon Angolan fabricators so we're going to have to manage that well.
So that's another potential risk.
As we get deeper into the percent completion of CLOV the risk starts to diminish because we get most of our purchase orders placed and so we know what those costs are and that's happening now.
We're getting more and more confident.
I think the risk would be is if we start to miss some deliveries or some dates start to get in jeopardy we're going to try to protect the customer's schedule and we'll spend money to stay on schedule.
That's probably the -- that and maybe the local content piece is probably where the biggest risk remains on CLOV.
But we're obviously very focused but I'm not going to pretend that that isn't a challenging project for us and we've got a ways to go before we're completely out of the woods.
And your next question is from the line of Brian Uhlmer from Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a couple of quick questions relating to the acquisition -- to the acquisition accounting.
As we look at MPM is that the accrual for a half year earn out or is that for your expectation that they'll do $2 million -- well under $2 million in EBITDA for the year? Or was that just the first half results? Yes.
Okay so on MPM first of all this is good news.
What this means is we're seeing an increase in the forecast from MPM.
We purchased 100% back in 2009.
We spent roughly $30 million at the time and the remaining 63% will be paid in payments in 2012 and 2013 based on their EBITDA.
So what this represents actually is the increase in the forecasted payment for the MPM earn out.
And it's obviously for the full payment.
It's not a partial.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not -- okay I got it.
And secondly when we move on -- moving onto Schilling.
Obviously that's a positive as well to have to mark it up.
My question on Schilling is is that primarily a book and ship business or does that actually hit any of your Subsea backlog number one.
And number two just kind of a range of where Schilling with as a full entity is that going to be about 5% of your operating income? Or 5% to 7%? Is that the correct range to think about for the Schilling contribution to the Subsea operating income? Yes.
I'll let John provide you some further color on the nature of the business as well but we haven't specifically disclosed the details of the Schilling component within the Subsea forecast.
But let me say this.
In terms of the Schilling potential for the full year that is assumed in our guidance both from a revenue and from an EBIT standpoint for the remaining -- for the balance of the year obviously from the acquisition in April.
With regard to backlog and the cycle time for Schilling I would consider it a short-cycle business.
It's actually 2 businesses.
They're the market leader in ROV manipulator arms and that's a very short-cycle business.
That is book and ship.
I don't think they keep much backlog other than a couple of months.
On the ROV side the manufacturing time is longer but it's still 6-or-so months.
And so if they get those ROV awards in the first half of the year they'll ship them in the second half.
So versus our subsea business it's pretty much a short-cycle business.
LLC Research Division</strong> So fair to say that the markup of Schilling and owning all of Schilling now didn't have a material impact on your good order quarter beyond what you normally would say? It's just -- okay.
No.
No it didn't.
No.
No impact really.
LLC Research Division</strong> Good deal.
Moving on my next question is on Surface business.
And I'm just curious how you're looking at the replacement and aftermarket service work as you've got I count close to 250 000 to 300 000 horsepower of your customers horsepower that is just sitting parked and not being put to work.
Do you view that -- obviously that's going to affect CapEx getting that stuff out to work but on the aftermarket do you think that they're more inclined to cannibalize that stuff and pull pumps off of those versus aftermarket? And how are you looking at that in the back half of the year? Yes traditionally when they park assets which they have been doing of late as we talked about the less horsepower demand per well typically they will cannibalize.
It's a cycle they go through.
They'll cannibalize and then once they do that and the activity stabilizes or begins to pick up they have to react very quickly and that's some of that variability in CapEx that's hard to predict until we see their plans for the following year.
But it wouldn't be uncommon for them to cannibalize some.
We've included those kinds of assumptions in our 25% reduction in revenue from the second half compared to the first half.
And your next question is from the line of Robert Connors from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just listening to your comments with regard of lack of available talent in the industry could we see some subsea providers such as yourself charge more for the FEED in project management scope that goes into a project rather than just from selling the equipment and if so could that be of material? No Rob we've participated in a lot of FEED studies but not for the purpose of us making money on FEED studies only.
We participate in FEED studies so that we can eventually win the systems business.
So we wouldn't go out and use our technical talent just to provide engineering consulting services.
We're going to use our engineering talent so that it can lead to us being the systems provider.
So I don't see where for us FEED studies and charging more for the FEED study is going to lead to any kind of material difference in our margins.
We participate in FEEDs for the purpose of winning that company's subsea systems business and supporting our partners.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then some of the input costs such as like steel and nickel continues to remain weak and you have some visibility from your frame agreements upon future demand.
Any thoughts regarding maybe some advanced procurement to take advantage of it? Or just any update of what you're seeing on the cost side? Good point.
On the basic metals which we use a lot of nickel alloy in subsea equipment the pricing has been quite stable.
We haven't seen big upticks.
What we do worry about however is some of the OEM components that go into the subsea equipment.
They're unique to kind of the subsea world and if those suppliers start to bump up against their capacity we could see some big price increases.
We haven't seen them yet.
But we anticipate that that could happen as the subsea market heats up.
So what we've done is we've gone to our partners where we have that kind of visibility and encouraged them to give us long lead contracts so that we can get the stuff on order before the big subsea uptick really starts to hit the supply chain and we can stay ahead of it.
And your next question is from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> With respect to the subsea compression businesses again I mean you've got the separation and boosting nailed down.
Could you give us a little update on where they stand now on getting reliable subsea compression systems.
Is it going to be on what Statoil is working out on the Asgard field? Well there's been -- obviously the Asgard which you referenced there's not a long list of subsea gas -- when I look out the next 2 years there's not a lot of subsea gas compression projects out there.
I think a lot of it is focused around the North Sea.
Shell on Ormen Lange is considering gas compression.
They haven't made the decision.
As you know Shell is a partner of ours and they're talking to us about gas compression as an option for Ormen Lange.
We expect that later this year early next year after a number FEED studies and work that Shell will make that decision whether or not to go with a platform or gas compression.
So I'd say that's the next one up would be a decision by Shell on Ormen Lange.
And beyond that the next couple of years not a lot of gas compression certainly not beyond the North Sea.
Research Division</strong> And what is it that needs to happen for this to become more of an adopted development method? Is it success on the Asgard field? Or is it -- or are there other kind of critical items that needs to happen? No no I think it -- we haven't had a gas compression system installed and operational to give the industry the field-proven confidence that they need but I'm confident that Statoil will get to that point.
I just would remind you that at least what we've said is that the gas compression although an important market isn't going to be a large market at least in the near term because the number of subsea gas fields is relatively modest.
So I think that the demand for subsea gas compression is going to be smaller and slower over time just because of the number of big gas subsea fields in the world.
But I think the industry will adapt this technology the same way they've adapted subsea separation and boosting and it's important that Asgard get in the water and be proven operationally.
But I don't think you'd see this big explosion after that's done of a whole bunch of subsea gas compression projects just simply because the number of subsea gas wells -- fields is relatively small compared to oil.
Research Division</strong> True.
I mean I was just taken aback a little bit by the sheer size and scale of this project so I mean they're massive.
But as this kind of becomes more of a business including the growth in subsea boosting and separation what do you think will happen to your overall margins in your subsea business given the -- that this is sort of more of an engineering and less of a product-based offering? Will -- does it mean you'll gravitate more towards kind of high single-digit margins rather than high single or high teens that you can maybe get on product? How do you see that? No we don't see it that way.
We see that the margins on subsea processing kit will reflect pretty much the margins that we see on a subsea system.
When you look at the passthroughs the components we make those.
When you look at let's take Total pass floor [ph] the big subsea almost $400 million subsea processing project we -- other than the pump which we're now developing our own pump a lot of that equipment was manufactured.
So the composition of what we make what we engineer versus what we buy for subsea processing looks about the same as it does for subsea production systems.
So we don't think the margin's really any different.
And we have reached the end of the Q&amp;A portion for today's call.
I will turn the conference over back over to our host Mr.
Brad Alexander for any closing remarks.
This concludes our second quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our third quarter 2012 conference call on October 24 at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Robyn you may end the call.
And this does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the FMC Technologies Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] In the event of any technical difficulties during the call we will post updates at www.fmctechnologies.com/earnings.
Thank you.
Your host is Brad Alexander Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin your conference.
Thank you Takisha.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our President.
I'll start by discussing the quarter.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Our third quarter revenue was $1.4 billion and operating profit was $181 million.
Earnings were $0.41 per diluted share for the quarter.
Looking at the overall market subsea activity continues to show improvement as industry tree orders to date have exceeded last year's total and the backlog of all major equipment suppliers appears to be strong.
The number of large projects continues to grow and over the next 15 months we should see a large number of awards announced.
Although the timing of awards is always difficult to predict the strengthening subsea market is supporting more attractive project pricing.
The U.S.
onshore rig count fell roughly 7% sequentially in the third quarter.
This occurred in spite of increased prices for dry gas and oil prices that remained around $90 per barrel for the last couple of months.
This decline in activity was greater than we expected and had a more significant impact on our Surface Technologies results.
Frac equipment ordered 9 to 12 months ago continues to enter the market albeit at a much slower pace and as a result this exasperates the oversupply situation and is depressing demand for new capital orders.
In addition as the market has moved away from high service intensity of the dry gas plays like the Haynesville Shale we're now better able to see that equipment is not requiring replacement at the same rate we were previously experiencing.
Looking at specific segment results subsea revenue of $929 million was less than expected due primarily to the timing of supply chain deliveries which impacts our revenue recognition.
For the year we believe our total subsea sales will approach $4 billion.
Subsea margins of 12.4% increased again this quarter as our project execution continues to improve.
Our expectations are that this better performance will continue.
Subsea inbounded 885 million of orders in the quarter with a total of 22 trees.
This included the Statoil Gulfaks award we discussed during the second quarter call.
Our subsea backlog now stands at $4.4 billion.
We finished the third quarter with $3.2 billion of subsea orders inbounded year-to-date.
During the last quarter call we estimated $4 billion to $5 billion range for subsea awards that we expect to book in 2012.
To reach the high-end of this range which we still believe is likely we would need a couple of the expected large projects to be awarded in the fourth quarter and not slip into 2013.
We're encouraged the deepwater activity in the Gulf of Mexico continues to recover as Shell Exxon Mobil BP and Anadarko are moving forward with several large projects.
Our strong relationship with each of these customers will help sustain our market leadership position in this region.
Globally the growing number of aging subsea wells presents a promising market opportunity for well intervention services.
Consistent with this trend and our strategy of growing our subsea services we are currently constructing our fourth well intervention stack.
This will likely be deployed in the basin outside of the North Sea such as the Gulf of Mexico and will be part of the recently announced joint venture we formed with Edison Chouest Offshore.
Regarding subsea processing the Marlim deepwater separation system is now very close to beginning operations.
The well in which system is installed is now flowing in a bypass mode.
When the wells flow reaches a higher water cut the system separator will be activated.
Confirmation of this separator performing will allow for reinjection of water into the formation.
We think Marlim's success will be a critical industry milestone promoting wider acceptance of this technology while advancing further oil-water separation solutions.
Moving now to our Surface Technologies segment.
Third quarter revenue was $363 million.
Margins fell over 4% sequentially as the North American market weakened more than we expected and we experienced some sales weakness associated with delayed deliveries in Europe.
Consistent with our shale growth strategy we closed the acquisition of pure energy services earlier this month.
Pure's flow back services are being integrated within our existing fracturing and manifold service business to deliver a package rental offering.
Many of our customers have expressed their desire to see these services bundled thus reducing supplier interfaces and increasing operational efficiency.
Combining flow back services with the rental of frac assets and working towards the addition of water treatment is part of our strategy that targets continued expansion in the shale markets.
To summarize I'm pleased with our improvement in subsea margins and continue to expect Subsea Technologies to generate revenue approaching $4 billion.
I'm also confident in the strength of the subsea market and expect our inbound awards to exceed last year.
In North America however we think our fluid control business could be impacted at a more pronounced level in both volume and margin than we last forecasted.
Additionally we're also seeing weakness in our North America surface wellhead business that will be partially offset with growing international activity.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter and for the full year.
Thanks John.
Subsea Technologies revenue in the quarter was $929 million.
Subsea operating profit was $115 million in the quarter with an operating margin of 12.4% reflecting continued improvement in our performance.
Last quarter excluding the $13.2 million benefit received related to purchase accounting treatment on the Schilling acquisition Subsea Technologies margins were 10.2%.
While volume in the third quarter was lower than expected we still anticipate a sequential increase of at least $200 million with margins in the range of 12% to 13% in the fourth quarter for Subsea Technologies.
These expectations are consistent with the overall performance improvements we have been discussing for the last few quarters.
This should result in full year Subsea Technologies operating margin of 11% to 12% and take us into 2013 with our expectations of full year margins at or above 13%.
We anticipate our full year subsea revenue to approach $4 billion with a third consecutive year of strong inbound and a book-to-bill ratio that again exceeds 1.0.
Surface Technologies operating margin for the third quarter was $58 million a 13% decrease from the prior year quarter and a 32% sequential decrease.
As anticipated Fluid Control activity declined materially.
Orders are now almost completely composed of repair and replacement items and recent rig count declines are pressuring this market as well.
In the surface wellhead business activity is declining in the North American market and we are seeing pricing pressure on our frac rental assets.
Additionally our international margins were negatively affected by Europe where shipment delays impacted sales in the quarter.
Orders for Surface Technologies for the quarter were $340 million with almost 2/3 of this coming from our surface wellhead business.
Surface wellhead orders were higher compared to last year and continued to exhibit the strength of the international market.
Backlog exited the quarter -- excuse me backlog exiting the quarter stands at $555 million for this segment down 3% sequentially due to reduced fluid control inbound.
As we indicated last quarter we thought our fluid control business was likely to see significantly less sales in the second half of this year.
Our recent order flow has confirmed market weakness and where we still expect declines in fluid control revenue we are now also expecting reduced activity in our North American surface wellhead business to negatively impact fourth quarter segment results.
Margins in the quarter were 15.8%.
We believe for the full year our Surface Technologies margins could now be in the range of 17% to 18% given market volatility.
This includes the contribution from Pure Energy Services in the fourth quarter which we expect to be accretive to earnings.
Energy Infrastructure operating profit for the third quarter was $8 million down 45% year-over-year with increased contract completion cost for direct drive systems and lower margin sales for separation systems.
This segment was also impacted by unexpected sequential decrease in volume as some delivery shifted into the fourth quarter.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $11.5 million.
We expect a similar amount in the fourth quarter.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $29.3 million.
This was above our guided range as $10.1 million of this expense or approximately $0.04 per diluted share was largely related to a mark-to-market adjustment for the 2013 earn-out associated with multiphase meters.
Additionally higher pension expense primarily related to an executive retirement had a greater impact on the quarter.
This was included in our full year guidance but increased due to changes in the discount rate reflected this quarter.
We expect other revenue and expense net to range between $23 million and $25 million in the fourth quarter as we anticipate $10 million to $11 million of additional charges in the fourth quarter or approximately $0.45 per diluted share resulting from a charge to the Norway pension plan and transaction costs associated with the Pure acquisition.
Our total estimate is subject to foreign currency fluctuations and the potential for additional mark-to-market adjustments related to multiphase meter during the earn-out period.
Our third quarter tax rate was 26.1%.
The rate would have been lower exclusive of the impact from the MPM adjustment this quarter which is not tax-deductible.
We anticipate our 2012 tax rate to range between 26% and 27% for the full year.
Capital spending this quarter was $91 million primarily directed towards subsea.
We estimate capital spending in 2012 will be approximately $400 million.
We repurchased approximately 690 000 shares of common stock at an average price of $44.90 per share.
At the end of the third quarter we had net debt of $963 million.
It is comprised of $566 million of cash and $1.5 billion of debt.
We issued $800 million of unsecured notes.
Historically low interest rates allowed us to lock in favorable terms and use the proceeds to repay outstanding commercial paper and indebtedness under our revolving credit facility.
We averaged 240.7 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
So in summary we believe our full year subsea operating margins will be in the range of 11% to 12%.
Regarding the Surface Technologies segment we are anticipating a further revenue decline in the second half of the year from lower fluid control sales and are also expecting lower North America surface wellhead sales.
We are accordingly adjusting our full year margin expectation to a range of a 17% to 18%.
In our Energy Infrastructure segment margins are likely to average between 7% to 8% as fourth quarter improvement helps overcome the performance of the last few quarters.
Lastly nonoperating items in both the third and fourth quarter negatively impact our previous earnings guidance by approximately $0.10 per share.
As a result of our outlook we are adjusting our EPS guidance for the full year to a range of $1.85 to $1.95.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Doug Becker with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> 5 billion of inbound orders still seem likely.
It is contingent some of the larger awards.
Just want to get your thoughts on the gene [ph] in particular and the Petrobras subsea manifolds work that seems to be out there.
On both of those projects we targeted then we think we're well-positioned.
Obviously we would have liked those awards to be announced earlier than they have been so far.
But we still believe that they're both likely to be announced this year or we are running out of year so it could possibly slip into 2013 but right now we believe that they'll still be announced this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then about the $200 million of revenue growth that we see or you see in terms of subsea what's the risk to that particularly given some of the I guess supply chain delivery issues that we saw in the third quarter? How comfortable are you in that materializing? Right.
Doug as you know percent complete revenue recognition is driven primarily by costs incurred over 2/3 of our cost to any subsea project come from the supply chain.
So to the extent that the supply chain receipts materialize in the fourth quarter we'll be able to hit that approaching $4 billion sales revenue number.
Now the -- with regard to the risk historically the fourth quarter has been our strongest quarter in part because the suppliers want to finish out the year strong.
So historically the fourth quarter has been strong.
Secondly we have this -- it's in the backlog so there's no backlog risk.
It's just a matter of supply chain receipt showing up.
And then finally as you saw on the margin improvement we have been making progress in execution improvement and that bodes well for our fourth quarter percent complete going up.
So sure there's risk.
The supply chain is starting to become constrained as these big subsea awards are being announced.
But again typically or historically the fourth quarter has been strong driven in part by higher supply chain receipts and that's what we'd expect in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And that leads kind of to my follow-up question just -- is there upside to the margins there? Posting 12.4% margins on lower revenue growth seems to auger pretty well that if you see a $200 million increase in revenue fixed cost absorption could actually see something maybe north of that 13% that you had alluded to? Yes with the exception of mix we had very favorable mix in the third quarter and as you know our backlog is made up of a variety of margins for different projects.
And the way in which they flow through the P&amp;L is based on where the project is in terms of its revenue recognition curve and we hit kind of the sweet spot in the third quarter with regard to favorable margin mix flowing through the P&amp;L.
In the fourth quarter we've got some projects that will hit that steeper percent completion curve with a little lower margins.
So I think that would -- we believe that would possibly offset any leverage we might get for the higher revenue in the fourth quarter.
And our next question comes from Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> John I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about broader well intervention strategy and you referenced constructing the fourth well intervention stack.
I know that the focus strategically has been more on sort of Riserless Light Well Intervention.
Just curious as you look down the road with your agreement with Suez are you looking more at heavy well intervention? Just kind of curious of your thoughts there.
Well we're -- Joe we're really very focused on expanding our successful well intervention services that we've been doing in the North Sea for over 8 years.
We've got 3 contracts as you know 2 with Statoil 1 with BP.
The Statoil contract in the first quarter were extended for another 5 years with another option.
The equipment is working extremely well and what we've been trying to do is to expand that success beyond the North Sea.
And the Suez joint venture and the 4 stack is really designed to do that.
So I would say clearly our focus is on leveraging the very successful well intervention services we're doing in the North Sea with other parts of the world and our JV with Suez will allow us to do it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And Maryann just trying to get a sense of when the headwind on other expense begins to abate a little bit relative to -- I know you've got the mark-to-market adjustments on earn out but more specifically some of the pension expense headwinds that are flowing through again in the fourth quarter.
Is your expectation return to sort of more normalized other expense levels there exiting the year? Just appreciate your comments on that.
Yes sure.
So a couple of things with respect to pension expense.
In this quarter we have settlement charges associated with an executive retirement.
And again while it was forecast over the full year because of the change in the discount rate we actually saw that increase slightly.
We take it in the quarter obviously.
In the fourth quarter we're actually making a change to our Norwegian pension i.e.
taking it from a DB plan to a DC plan.
So at the result we have a charge associated with the curtailment.
So those 2 are if you will unique items.
Having said that going forward for next year in 2013 while we haven't provided guidance the impact of the discount rate on our normal pension expense we are likely to see a fairly significant increase year-over-year as a result of that discount rate increasing.
Absent that nothing else abnormal that we are projecting.
With -- as it relates to MPM we are in the earn-out period.
It is 2012 and 2013 so you would expect that we would see some activity here as we complete the 2012 estimate and of course proceed to 2013.
But again that could go in the other direction as well as their forecast doesn't happen as it's initiated now.
And our next question comes from Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions.
The first of which relates to the guidance.
You've got what I'd assume to be the midpoint of the fourth quarter range implying $0.62 fourth quarter number.
You just had $0.46 operating.
Can you kind of walk us to how you get there? Yes sure.
We continue to see as we talked about the strength in subsea and we would expect obviously to see improvement in the top line and the margins between 11% to 12%.
Where we see the change year-over-year and sequentially really is coming from the North American operations in Surface Technologies.
And so just depending on where that market goes is really where we see the greatest volatility in the fourth quarter EPS estimate.
And then of course we do have the incremental charges as I explained in OID [ph] which will further have an impact in the fourth quarter and that's worth about $0.04 to $0.05.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Maryann just looking at the numbers are you guys calling for an improvement in Surface Tech topline? In Surface Technologies' total top line? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes for Q4? Yes that's correct.
And again keep in mind that we've got the addition of Pure in the fourth quarter.
Joe this is John.
The other thing that's helping us a little bit but did not help us as much and Maryann mentioned in her comments is that we -- and we've said at an earlier call although we were expecting the decline in Surface North America we expected some partial offset from stronger international surface wellhead business.
That didn't happen to the extent we expect in the third quarter because Europe surface wellhead deliveries were off.
We clearly expect the surface wellhead international business to improve in the fourth quarter.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then finally I'm just going to ask a different take on Doug's question.
John as your supply chain becomes constrained are you guys at risk for margin compression due to playing catch-up to hit your delivery dates? Or is there enough padding in the system to allow for that? Well Joe that's why we are so focused on execution.
If the engineering drawings get out on time if we plan this properly we should be able to mitigate and that's our whole plan is to mitigate the effects of a constrained supply chain.
We're already anticipating that the supply-chain is going to be constrained because of the level of subsea activity and we've been working really for the past 2 years to try to mitigate that.
I think an example just to be anecdotal here an example is that our global subsea supply chain group has grown up from 20 people at the end of 2010 to over 80.
That's an example of us getting ready to manage the supply chain differently in this high-growth environment.
Fortunately we have a lot of visibility because we have these alliances and partnerships so we know well in advance the kind of work that we're going to get from Shell and BP Statoil and Anadarko and we can plan for that.
We can buy capacity from our big forging shops for example well in advance.
So if we do that as we hope we will we should be able to mitigate the supply chain risk but clearly it's there and there's risks associated with that.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert with Simmons and Company.
Research Division</strong> To surface once again not surprisingly.
With regard to margins it sounds like we're looking at an exit rate margin in the fourth quarter of 12% to 13% is that correct? In -- for subsea we expect...
Research Division</strong> No Surface Technologies.
Oh yes I'm sorry.
No no it would be higher in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You were talking 17%.
I'll go back and refigure my math here but it's going to be lower quarter-on-quarter in the fourth quarter correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then have you given thought with regard to the incorporation of Pure and what economic reality appears to be with regard to the fluid control business and adjusting domestic surface wellhead what normalized margins for Surface Technologies look like going forward? We don't build the Pure margins relative to Surface Technologies.
They look about the same.
As you know we have -- the surface technology margins are high relative to our general FTI margins and the Pure margins are consistent with those.
So we shouldn't see really any degradation or substantial improvement with the addition of Pure in terms of the margins.
They'll mirror pretty much what we get in the original Surface Technologies segment.
Research Division</strong> But I guess the question is a bit little different John in terms of -- and perhaps maybe the environment is too fluid.
No pun intended here but assuming that we have relatively flattish E&amp;P capital spending relative to current rig count flat to up or flat to down I mean depending on WTI and E&amp;P cash flows and also gas.
What are you guys envisioning for Surface Technologies' margin going forward in that environment? Okay I understand the question a little bit better now.
When -- our fluid control business historically hasn't had a lot of margin degradation even in the down cycles.
There will be some but it won't be significant like you would see say with the pressure pumpers and others active in the industry.
So we're not anticipating a big degradation.
There will be absorption and that sort of thing which would drive the margins down from last quarter's guidance that Maryann gave in the 18 to 20 range down to the 17 18 range.
Further degradation of margins going forward nothing really significant.
There would have been some but they'd be relatively modest.
Clearly not what you saw in second quarter versus third quarter.
We do not expect to see the degradation in margins in Surface Technologies going forward.
Research Division</strong> So at this juncture is it prudent to assume that essentially margins for surface overall are going to kind of hang out in the low teens area on a structural basis going forward or give us some help on that front? Yes I think -- it's Maryann.
I think you'll probably see mid-teenish kinds of margins probably similar to what you're seeing more like the back half of this year than what you've seen in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one for me.
And I know you're probably not going to get explicit about this but would it be imprudent to think that -- about subsea margins in 2013 being higher than exit rate 2012? Yes slightly.
I mean remember we've said that the pricing improvement that we expect is not going to really occur until 2014 but you can't -- but we know that the revenue and the top line will be higher in '13 versus '12 and there's opportunities for leverage.
Now as was mentioned earlier in the Q&amp;A there is some risk.
We're going to be executing in an environment where there's going to be constraints particularly with the supply chain.
And if that wasn't managed  well we could have some margin degradation but I think it's very reasonable to expect going to 2013 we'll see some modest improvement as a result to higher top line revenue and our ability to leverage it.
And our next question comes from Ed Muztafago with Society General.
About infrastructure and you noted a couple of things there the lower margin products from separation and direct drive and I guess one just wondering are these -- is this a structural change in the segment due to the acquisition of direct drive? Or are these just discrete projects that will flow out? And then you also mentioned some slippage in terms of I guess sales into the fourth quarter and so I'm just wondering how we should sort of think about the margins for that segment? Should we see some material expansion going into the fourth quarter? Yes Ed it's the latter.
These are discrete projects that affected the third quarter.
We fully expect Energy Infrastructure performance to improve in the fourth quarter as a result of timing.
And can you talk at all as to what you sort of think about in terms of a normalized margin for that segment? Yes sure it's Maryann.
DDS this year and even last year has had R&amp;D expenses as you know as we focus on the work related to developing the pump with a motor for subsea processing and it's been important.
As we move into 2013 we would see a decline of that R&amp;D expense within DDS.
So we would expect to see probably 150 basis point improvement into 2013 over normalized margins in that segment.
Okay.
Thanks Maryann that's very helpful.
And then as a second question I wanted to sort of follow-up on your pricing commentary in subsea.
It seems to be a little bit decidedly more positive than what you guys were saying before.
I think what you indicated in the last conference call and some of your recent conference presentations was that you were seeing a more sort of disciplined bidding process amongst your competitors but it sounded to me like you're suggesting that subsea pricing is now starting to move higher.
Is that correct? Yes it is.
We're certain with another quarter and watching the market environment we are more confident that pricing will improve.
I would just remind you there haven't been that many awards.
There weren't that many awards in the third quarter.
I certainly feel a lot better if the awards that were actually announced have higher pricing.
But absent that what we're seeing is less competitive intensity.
When you see a bid over the last 2 or 3 years all 4 of the equipment suppliers went after a bid all the way to the bitter end.
What we see now in the bidding process is a couple of the bidders falling away and there's only 2 that follow the bidding process all the way through the end.
To me that's a precursor to a less intense pricing environment.
Now we know how we're pricing and we're clearly raising prices on the bids that we're submitting.
Again I'd feel a little better if those awards were announced to us at higher pricing so we'll see that in this quarter and in the next quarter that the pricing improvement that we are expecting actually is happening.
All the environment is sound and what we're seeing is that the competitive intensity is lessening and all you have to do is look at the backlog of the various suppliers.
Each of our competitors have more trees in backlog than they've had in the last 3 years which would suggest the backlogs are filling up driving a different kind of competitive intensity that we're now starting to see.
Sure.
And I mean you're definitively moving pricing higher so I think there is no reason to suspect that your competitors are behaving any differently if they're becoming less competitive in the overall bidding process.
And your next question comes from David Anderson with JPMorgan.
John a question on your service business back to that.
In the past when the rig count is falling we haven't seen the surface -- the margins fall as much as we've seen here.
So I'm just trying to figure out what's different here.
One thing I'm starting to hear is on the customer side about inventory overhang we heard some issues last quarter about that also hearing about some of the smaller pressure pumping companies not kind of deferring some of the maintenance or is it rig count? Can you just kind of help me understand some of the drivers there because we haven't seen as much of a drop before? And I'm also trying to understand how much we can snap back and how should we be thinking about that recovery? Yes this is Bob.
In addition to the rig count you got to remember that -- and we've talked about this stuff before about service pressure pumping intensity which is a lot less in the liquid-directed plays than it had been in the gas-directed play.
So we're certainly generating less revenue and of course as importantly less repair parts.
We're not replacing equipment as much as we were when we were more heavily into the gas-directed plays with much higher frac intensity.
So another part that was on your frac pumps as well can you talk about that business? I assume kind of all new orders for frac pumps is kind of falling away so are we just looking at your maintenance and...
That's right.
I think that we're going to probably shift something on the order of 2/3 of what we had originally planned in terms of whole pumps.
But in contrast our fluid end business which is the expendable component of the pressure pump is actually greater.
It's greater than what it had been.
So we are seeing it in terms of the repair and replacement business not -- and as you pointed out not in the capital spending or horsepower addition portion of our business.
So I guess I'm just kind of wondering the margin degradation we saw how much of that is due to cost absorption? Is it -- because I know we did some -- you guys did some expansions about a year ago or so so is it partly to that?  So as activity level picks up do we just snap back to that kind of 19%? I mean I guess that's one thing I'm trying to understand.
It's a little bit of that but as we've talked before we are doing a pretty good job of finding ways to utilize the additional capacity that we put in place in a couple of different ways reeling in subcontract that we have been doing as well as looking for opportunities to do work for our subsea business which is in need of greater capacity.
And our next question comes from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Questions regarding the Subsea business.
You mentioned the supply chain being constrained.
Is that a global issue or is that more in certain specific regions? Could you expand on that a little bit? Generally it's global.
The one area where it wouldn't be is in Brazil where local content is required.
But right now clearly the supply chain constraints that we anticipate would be global.
Research Division</strong> Is it also a lot more in West Africa and Angola Nigeria with the results so local content issues? Local content required in West Africa right now is mostly the local content of the value add that we provide plus fabrication.
So when you're talking about forgings or OEM components those aren't sourced in West Africa.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you give us an update on the CLOV project? Is it all behind us? Or how much of that could still show up in terms of cost issues? Yes it's Maryann.
On the CLOV project we're a little bit more than 50% complete and we are continuing to meet all of our customer need dates.
We'll see a contribution coming from CLOV in the fourth quarter and we should complete that project by the end of 2013 but again more than 50% complete and continuing to meet customer need dates.
Our next question comes from Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask Bob was talking about the aftermarket and the replacement market.
I think you'd said that you were seeing -- on the last call you expected to see a lot of cannibalization of idle fracturing equipment and at the end of that process you start to see a little more normalized replacement in aftermarket activity on the fluid control side.
So is that still your expectation? Is that actually what you see today? It is.
I mean the pressure pumpers are certainly idling horsepower as we speak and that's their normal process.
They'll cannibalize the equipment that we provide first and then ultimately have to replace that.
We'll probably see that begin to occur more actively in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My other question has to do with subsea processing.
Big Blue has been talking a lot lately about subsea processing and just wanted to get your comments or updates with regards to what you see as the projects that are coming with respect to boosting and subsea separation in 2013 and the size of the market compared to where it is today or where it has been in 2012? Robin I think we've said that like most developing new market segments the demand is going to be pretty lumpy as operators begin to adopt this new technology and that's certainly what we saw or are seeing in 2012 with really just a handful of subsea processing projects awarded.
But looking further out in 2013 there's more than 8 names subsea processing projects.
The ones that are coming up in 2013 are more boosting oriented as opposed to separation although there's a couple of separation projects.
But then looking beyond that into 2014 you get another 8 to 10 name projects and it swings back to the majority of those that involve separation so -- and these are -- all these projects won't necessarily go forward but that's very encouraging that the market is developing as we expected it to in terms of the material size.
It's every bit of what we've been forecasting.
It's just -- it's lumpy and sometimes they'll be a lot of boosting-only projects.
In other times there'll be boosting and separation.
Again that's what we're seeing in 2013 and 2014.
So I'd say the market is developing even better than what we hoped.
When you look at the number of operators it keeps growing that are either interested in the technology forming special R&amp;D projects or joint industry projects or actually going ahead and selecting subsea processing as part of their development plans.
So I think it's definitely developing the way we envision if not more so.
And 2013 and 2014 based on the list of named projects should be very strong for subsea processing.
Research Division</strong> Yes and just following on that on the competitive landscape with regard to who your -- I mean obviously very very strong early leader in this niche but just if you would comment on what you see maybe evolving in the competitive landscape for that type of subsea opportunity?.
Well because the market is so attractive we would expect all the subsea suppliers including nontraditional subsea suppliers to be very interested in the markets just because of its size.
Up until now as you pointed out we're the only company that has been successful in subsea separation.
But we would envision going forward that others who are -- and presumably developing similar technology would begin to bid and ultimately participate in this market.
On the boosting side in terms of multiphase helico-axial pump Schlumberger for example or Framo has that capability and they actually have commercial applications of the multiphase pump.
We will now be entering that market with a successful qualification of our multiphase helico-axial pump which was qualified earlier this year and we're now participating in bids for the first time against Framo.
So we'll now participate in that part of the segment going forward and again I'm not aware of any other supplier that's working on a multiphase helico-axial pump although presumably the other suppliers are thinking about how to participate in this exciting new market.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just -- on the subsea dynamic it looks like the visibility continues to increase heading out into 2013 get better pricing better margins so on and so forth.
You indicated that in order to get an upend to your order intake you need a couple of large projects.
I was under the impression that it was really only 1 large project that needed to be booked here in the fourth quarter and that was Egina.
Do have any updates on what you may think the project timing for Egina may be? Again we expect -- we still expect Egina to be awarded this year but as I referred to earlier we are running out of years.
So it's possible to slip it right now no we believe that Egina would be awarded this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- I know you hit a lot already on the surface element of it and went through a lot of specifics on that front.
How would you gauge the -- I think based on your commentary we can infer that you're looking at maybe the fourth quarter as being the trough margin point for surface.
Is that a right inference on my part or not? Kurt it's Maryann.
So for surface wellhead yes for sure.
We see some benefit coming out of the international market so yes.
Our next question comes from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to jump in -- from what I understood you've guided the fourth quarter for subsea margins between 12% and 13%.
And if I'm not mistaken for next year you said kind of 13% or higher on average for '13? Is that correct? Yes Maryann's comments could be '13 -- subsea margins are going to be at '13 level for next year and again we -- in my earlier comment we said there's an opportunity for improvement as the top line revenue grows and there's opportunities for leverage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you because it would strike me -- if you look at sort of the waves of deliveries coming next year just from a sheer kind of asset turns and asset utilization side from you guys on the manufacturing front especially if the supply chain issues sort of smooth through that you should be getting a bigger backlog conversion next year maybe than you did on average on this year is that a fair assessment? No not really because earlier this year we received a $1.5 billion Petrobras multiyear contract for pre-salt trees which we booked almost $1 billion.
That goes over 4 years.
So you've got -- if you look at our backlog it's heavily -- it's got a big piece of that pre-salt in it and that will not -- that will be delivered over 4 years.
So it would be a mistake to -- from where we were in 2012 assume that the conversion rate would be higher because we didn't have that in our backlog.
So no you wouldn't want to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Would you say that you get a little help from mix? It seems like if you have projects booked kind of in maybe 2010 and whatnot there were maybe done at slightly lower pricing and then at the margin you're getting better pricing.
Would you assume that mix starts to help you next year on the margin front? Well I'd be careful.
There's not going to be a mix improvement because of pricing.
Pricing is not really going to flow through the P&amp;L until 2014 so I would be -- I wouldn't want to be too optimistic on mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could have one -- go ahead.
Oh I'm sorry.
We do however get the benefit of -- as these projects are logged in toward more in the close that have -- they were essentially 10% of our revenue in 2012.
So as they continue to complete and flush through we will see some benefit obviously of not having those lower margin projects in 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And one last one if I could so on the surface side if you look at the run rate of what you did on the revenue in the third quarter and you say you're slightly down next quarter but that maybe kind of the bottom what's the -- can we expect -- if on a flat say rig count on average next year can we expect the same basic run rate at this quarter for maybe the average of 13? It's a little early for us to give 2013 guidance as you know but I think it's a reasonable place to start if you look at kind of what the run rate would be in the last quarter of the year.
And our next question comes from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just another question as related to subsea revenues as we think about next year.
How dependent -- clearly I think everyone has modeled the expectation of up revenues in total versus '12.
But I'm just curious just given the percentage completion accounting around your subsea business as a whole does it really matter John at this point whether or not -- as you think about '13 revenues in total whether or not Egina comes in say fourth quarter versus 1Q? Because I'd imagine there's still going to be some of that that's going to booked regardless of a 2-month slip for example.
Does that radically change how you guys would view your percentage growth in '13 subsea versus '12? Yes Bill good point.
No it does not matter.
Obviously if a project like Egina or Petrobras manifolds or something say arrives 6 months earlier then it would make a difference because we get much further down the percent complete S-curve as we call it but whether we get a big project in December or February isn't going to make much of a difference at all in terms of 2013 revenue recognition.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you have a pretty good sense right now of what kind of top line growth is going to be in subsea I would take it at this point for '13 versus '12? Is that fair? Yes we would expect 2013 top line subsea revenue to continue to grow in 2013 because we go into the year with higher backlog.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then just one follow-up as it relates to the guidance again.
Maryann I think it was mentioned earlier in talking about the $185 million to $195 million.
I think someone mentioned that the third quarter assumption was $0.46 as opposed to the $0.41 that you reported which would have meant again just excluding that MPM acquisition.
Is that correct in terms of the guidance you guys are looking at that way? Or is it $0.41 third quarter and then we just build up from there? My guidance to $185 million to the $195 million includes all of the costs associated with MPM.
So I haven't excluded it in any of my guidance.
So the $185 million assumes the MPM adjustment that we took in Q3 and in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay it does assume it okay.
Correct it does assume it.
So Bill just to be clear when we talk about going from our previous guidance $210 million $220 million down to $185 million $195 million kind of that other expense item there's about $0.10 between Q3 and Q4 that's attributed to below the line items the OID [ph] pension expense MPM the cost associated with the Pure transaction.
So there's $0.10 of other income in deduction in that guidance.
And just to be clear though also in the event we were to have to take another MPM adjustment it is not included in my guidance.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But I guess as we should be thinking about what the true third quarter number is the pension expense since it's going to be recurring again it sounds like in the fourth quarter.
MPM I think you told us certainly to exclude it in 2Q and you're  telling us to exclude it again we should be working off of a $0.46 number as we think about 3Q? Okay.
You got it.
And our next question comes from James West with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to kind of big picture question for you here and Robin kind of alluded to it.
But that's of course Schlumberger talking more about subsea focusing more on processing.
How are you guys thinking about some of the -- I guess call it somewhat nontraditional players coming into the processing businesses? Is this is a competitive threat? Is it just a validation of your kind of view of the market and is this an opportunity either to partner to JV or just a company that could help accelerate the market growth and processing? Well first James I think it validates our belief in the size and potential of subsea processing market.
So a company like Schlumberger would not be interested in as an -- a capital equipment manufacturer if they didn't see that this is a highly potential market.
In terms of a threat we compete against Schlumberger today against Framo and it's actually the opposite.
I mean we're -- we weren't competing against Framo because we didn't have a pump but now with the successful qualification of our helico-axial pump we'll be providing competition to Schlumberger where it didn't exist before.
So I think it validates it.
I think we had no illusions about having a really more competitive environment than we've seen up until now.
We expected more competition and not to be for the last 5 years the only supplier of subsea separation systems.
So I think it validates that.
I believe very confidently in our strategy which really evolves from the close partnerships we have with companies like Petrobras and Statoil where they envision the subsea oil field of the future in the next couple of decades having all the functionality on the seabed and companies like FMC being the integrator of all that equipment on the subsea.
That's our strategy.
It's our customers our long-term strategy and that's what we're working towards.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But do you think that having more participants I mean given that maybe you won't have 100% of the market going forward but that it actually helps accelerate the market growth.
I mean the market growth is already pretty strong in general but do you think this accelerates it further? I don't know about accelerating it because we in the oilfield service sector the E&amp;P companies have always desired competition.
So we knew that there would be competition.
We never believed for a minute that we would be the only subsea separation and subsea boosting supplier.
So I don't know that it accelerates.
So I think it does validate it but I don't know it accelerates it.
I mean what accelerates it will be success in Marlim for example getting companies to see that in a commercial application that this technology works and it delivers the compelling value through reservoir recovery production increasing lowering costs and so forth.
So I think that's what's going to accelerate is the successful adoption in the industry and that can only come from successful applications.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
One last question for me on the joint venture with Suez.
Why did you guys choose to go to joint venture route here rather than what you've done in the North Sea which I believe you're leasing some assets there with Island offshore? Yes each market was going to be different and we knew that in the North Sea where we had a higher concentration with -- really with Statoil and with BP of a large volume of older subsea wells.
We could sign up longer-term contracts with those operators and form an alliance-type relationship which is a little less structured than what we're forming with Suez.
But we thought to pursue markets outside of the North Sea where it's not going to be maybe a straightforward in terms of 1 or 2 operators being the only customer that we needed a little different structure.
So that's kind of what that's about is a structure we thought was more ideally suited for the different markets outside of the North Sea.
Research Division</strong> And it's suited most likely -- the Gulf of Mexico I think you said that earlier most likely the Gulf.
Well clearly that's a real opportunity.
I mean there's a large population of subsea wells and they're aging in the Gulf of Mexico.
But it could also be applicable to Brazil and West Africa.
So I wouldn't rule out any of these I mean the first one where we get the most commitments from operators is where it's going to go.
Our next question comes from Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One -- and Maryann this is just for clarity purposes because I think I'm hearing 2 different things.
The guidance is based on sort of $1.29 year-to-date is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to make sure okay.
And then my second question it pertains to sort of your frame agreements and pricing and how should we think about subsea prices move? How much will the frame agreements gets impacted on price versus the spot market business? How does that interaction generally work? Well most of our frame agreements have escalation clauses.
So as costs increase with -- as the market tightens they'll be picked up in the frame agreements.
But in terms of pricing our frame agreements they're all different but they almost always involve renegotiation of the pricing either on a project-by-project basis or by an annual basis.
So let me go under those negotiations.
We start with the market price and our partners have a lot of visibility on market pricing even though maybe we're their sole-source they're nonoperating partners in other projects and so they can see the market price for subsea equipment.
And so we'll start in these renegotiations from the market price and so they'll be adjusted over time to start to reflect the market price.
Now keep in mind our margins with our frame agreement partners tend to be better because we're selling standard equipment and our execution challenges are less because we're doing things over and over again so we tend to have better margins because our costs are in better position with our frame agreement partners.
But the frame contracts all include renegotiation of prices either on a project basis or annually and they reflect the current conditions in the market.
And our final question comes from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think most of the modeling questions have been covered.
I had more of a strategic question.
Historically and correct me if I'm wrong but I tend to think of FMC as a little bit less vertically integrated I'm thinking on the subsea side.
And with kind of some of the supply chain issues that are mentioned on this call just sort of the secular growth you see in that space I was just wondering if in your comp structure if it's worth the capital at this point to start bringing some of that margin capture in-house in other words whether it be on the forging side or some of the higher-end materials that are required if a more vertically integrated approach is in discussion? First with regard to how we look vertically integrated versus the other subsea equipment suppliers we look very similar to them.
I think the only exception that I could think of might be drill -- they have a forge shop but they're not really a -- they don't really compete with us and such.
The other area is Cameron has a ball valve is vertically integrated on their ball valve which is one component of the manifold but beyond that we all look about the same.
Now for the second part of your question is there an advantage to us considering vertical integration and in certain areas there is.
But by and large no.
We take our strategy of letting our suppliers do what they do best and we focus on what we do best.
But to protect their capacity particularly in an environment -- rapidly growing environment like we have today we want to do more to manage our partner supplier so that we can ensure capacity.
I think by and large you wouldn't see a big shift on our part in terms of vertical integration because I just don't think the value is there.
And by the way I think it further distracts us and I don't think there's a big opportunity to improve margin substantially by doing that.
There are a couple of areas though where it makes sense for example in Brazil where we know the supply chain is going to be constrained and we've actually began in-sourcing some of the critical supply chain components but that wasn't so much for improving margin through vertical integration.
It was to protect capacity and we'll continue to do that anywhere in the world and we think that's a better option than more closely managing our partner suppliers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well you make that sound very logical.
It makes a ton of sense.
I guess the other strategic question I have is with the acquisition of Pure I think you mentioned being able to rent more on their production infrastructure side of the shale plays.
You've got the manifold and trees and now more in the flow back side.
I would imagine there's a lot of bits and pieces that kind of -- would fit in between that.
From a capital deployment perspective how active should we think FMC is in the M&amp;A market for the next couple of years building that platform? Actually there isn't that many pieces between a Pure services and what we provide and that's one of their reasons Pure was so attractive.
It is exactly adjacent if you will to the service that we provide.
And the next area that we're interested in is in separation and we have that technology through the separation business we bought 4 years ago.
So I'm not saying there is another M&amp;A opportunity and we certainly -- we would certainly pursue them just as we did Pure but there isn't really that we can see that many pieces left in terms of the bundling of the services and the one area that we think is really interesting is adding separation to the flow back services not only primary separation but also water polishing and secondary separation and we've got that capability through the separation business we bought.
So no I don't think the acquisition of Pure begs for a whole bunch of more M&amp;A although we'll certainly do it just like we did with Pure but we are excited.
We're very excited now that we've got Pure and we're looking at it more closely.
The opportunities for synergies actually appear to be greater than what we thought and we're  pretty excited about continuing to expand our participation in the shale play services.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well especially in light of what you said with the separation side being almost an organic potential it kind of opens I would imagine a lot of doors for you guys.
We hope so.
This concludes our third quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our fourth quarter 2012 conference call in February 13 at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Takisha you may now end the call.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earning Analysts Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Alexander.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they're subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
References made to completion services during this call are related to the businesses we acquired in conjunction with the Pure acquisition that closed on October 1 2012.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our President.
I'll start with some highlights from the quarter and for the year.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and our outlook for 2013 and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Regarding the results for the quarter and full year earnings were $0.50 per diluted share for the quarter and $1.78 for the full year a 9% increase over our prior year performance and our 11th consecutive year of earnings growth.
Our operational performance in the fourth quarter was strong in all 3 business segments and met our expectations.
The quarter and full year earnings include an earn-out charge related to our Multi Phase Meters acquisition that Maryann will discuss.
Record quarterly company revenue and operating profit was driven by significant growth in subsea which more than offset the declining North America land market.
Subsea Technologies revenue of $1.2 billion in the quarter represented a significant sequential and year-over-year increase and drove our full year revenue to $4 billion.
Our subsea revenue has grown almost 50% since 2010 as our backlog has strengthened and we increased capacity through investments in talent supply chain and facilities.
Subsea Technologies' inbound for the quarter was $1.4 billion bringing our 2012 total inbound to $4.6 billion.
Orders were strong for our subsea business despite the delay of some large awards the industry has been expecting.
We were awarded 35 trees in the quarter bringing our 2012 total to 159 subsea trees.
This brings our market share for industry tree awards to almost 40% for the year.
We also saw strong order flow from both MPM and Schilling Robotics in the quarter as both of these businesses are responding to increasing demand and gaining market share on the strength of their innovative technologies.
As a result of our strong order performance in the quarter we exited the year with $4.6 billion in Subsea Technologies backlog.
Surface Technologies fourth quarter revenue was $444 million.
Activity improved sequentially as international surface wellhead sales growth offset our expected decline in North American activity.
In addition we benefited from the October acquisition of Pure Energy Services.
In the fourth quarter fluid control revenue was at its lowest level in 6 quarters due to the decline of capital equipment backlog.
While repair and replacement business has also declined it's maintained reasonably good volume and profitability in this challenging market.
Our international surface wellhead business remains strong as a result of our established presence and the expanding opportunities in these markets particularly in the Middle East.
Energy Infrastructure performed as expected in the fourth quarter as we experienced sequential gains in measurement solutions and loading systems.
Looking forward in 2013 we expect to see continued year-over-year growth for subsea activity.
We think many of the projects we've previously discussed will be awarded this year.
This includes large projects in West Africa additional awards in Brazil and a continuation of orders in the North Sea and significant growth in the Gulf of Mexico.
Focusing on the Gulf of Mexico.
We were recently awarded the contract for BP's Mad Dog Phase 2 development.
This project falls under our global frame agreement with BP.
We also expect to see major operators including Shell Anadarko and Exxon Mobil increase their activity in the Gulf of Mexico as they have projects slated for award this year.
In 2012 the subsea market strengthened.
We began to see indications pricing would improve and we feel confident this better pricing will materialize in upcoming awards.
With regard to some of our other capabilities in the subsea portfolio in the future much of our investment will be -- will focus on expanding our subsea services business and processing capabilities.
Consistent with our strategy of expanding our subsea processing business the qualification of our helico-axial multiphase pump combined with our agreement for future product development with Sulzer gives us a solid platform participating in the boosting market.
Coupling this with our capabilities in subsea separation and compression provides us the most complete offering to participate in the subsea processing market.
Our confidence in the growth of this market is bolstered by operators becoming increasingly more engaged regarding subsea processing technology as indicated by the increased number of named project and FEED studies over the next few years.
In Surface Technologies North America will remain a challenge in the first half of 2013 and it's unclear if recovery will occur in the second half of the year.
In contrast we believe our surface wellhead business will remain strong internationally as rig counts continue to increase.
In the long term however the shale plays are a growth opportunity and we will work to fully develop and integrate our products and services associated with the fracturing process.
In summary we delivered strong operational results this quarter in all 3 of our business segments.
Subsea Technologies' outlook includes increased revenue margins and inbound awards as we benefit from a strengthening market.
Surface Technologies' outlook includes solid international surface wellhead activity and a full year of completion services results.
This will be offset by declining North America fluid control and surface wellhead results.
Overall we expect 2013 earnings per share to increase to a forecasted range of $2.05 to $2.25.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter and for the full year and provide more detailed explanation on our 2013 expectations.
Thanks John.
Our fourth quarter operational performance was solid as all 3 segments delivered results that are above our expectations.
Included in our earnings in the fourth quarter is a charge of $17.5 million or $0.07 per share for the increased liability associated with the earn-out from our Multi Phase Meter acquisition made in 2009.
The earn-out is based on 2012 and 2013 performance.
MPM performance was better than expected in 2012 and we have raised our MPM forecast for 2013.
Excluding the impact of this incremental charge earnings per share were $0.57 in the quarter.
Also included in our $0.50 per share is the charge of $8.6 million or $0.04 per share for the changes made to our Norway pension as we previously guided.
Subsea Technologies operating profit was $151 million in the fourth quarter.
Operating margins of 12.2% were in line with our most recent expectations.
Surface Technologies generated operating profit of $65 million with a margin of 14.6%.
Operating profit declined 15% from prior year quarter but improved 12% sequentially on the strength of international surface wellhead.
As we anticipated our fluid control business revenue decreased sequentially due to the absence of sales related to capital expansion.
Backlog for fluid control is the lowest we have seen since the first quarter of 2010.
Looking forward to the next few quarters we expect this business will be driven by repair and replacement work until our customers begin adding to or updating their existing fracturing fleets.
Our international surface wellhead business showed improvement from the third quarter where we had some delivery slipped.
We recovered those and delivered activity originally forecast for the fourth quarter.
Our completion services business also contributed to the quarterly earnings increase on the strength of flowback services.
Orders for Surface Technologies for the quarter was $389 million.
Surface wellhead continued to see a healthy level of international activity and the $389 million includes orders for completion services but fluid control inbound continued to decline.
Backlog now stands at $501 million for this segment with a greater percentage attributed to surface wellhead in the last quarter.
Energy Infrastructure generated operating profit of $23 million with a margin of 13.7%.
The 13% increase in profit over the prior year quarter was due to the acquisition of Control Systems International and improved performance in our separation systems and loading systems businesses.
Sequential increases were largely the result of both loading systems and measurement solutions where both the expected strong year end revenue combined with activity delayed from the third quarter helped deliver a solid quarter.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $11.4 million.
Other income and expense net reflects expense of $40 million.
Included in this quarter is the $17.5 million charge for Multi Phase Meters as the 2012 performance was better than expected and we have raised our expectation for their performance for 2013.
Additionally as previously forecasted for the fourth quarter we took a charge of $8.6 million for the Norway pension plan as we moved to a defined contribution plan.
Our fourth quarter tax rate was 32%.
For the full year our tax rate was 28% 26% when excluding the MPM earn-out expense which does not receive a tax benefit.
Capital spending this quarter was $123 million primarily directed toward both Subsea Technologies infrastructure and service asset investment and the recently acquired Houston real estate for future growth requirements.
For the full year our capital spending was $405 million.
We repurchased 927 000 shares of stock in the fourth quarter at an average price of $42.21 per share.
For the full year we repurchased approximately 2.1 million shares at an average cost of $42.61.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had net debt of $1.3 billion.
It was comprised of $342 million of cash and $1.6 billion of debt.
So in summary for 2012 we earned $1.78 per diluted share on revenue of $6.2 billion representing 9% increase year-over-year in earnings and a 21% increase on revenue.
Subsea Technologies revenue was $4 billion an increase of 22% with margins of 11.3%.
Surface Technologies revenue was $1.6 billion an increase of 22% with margins of 17.8%.
Energy Infrastructure revenue $576 million an increase of 14% with margins of 8.5%.
Looking at 2013 as John communicated our earnings per share guidance for 2013 is in the range of $2.05 to $2.25 an increase between 15% and 26% year-over-year.
In Subsea Technologies we expect to see revenue growth over 2012.
While we see a strong 2013 for subsea inbound award timing could impact our 2013 revenue growth.
As we have seen in prior years we anticipate sequential revenue and margin decline in the first quarter for 2013.
For the full year we anticipate margins should average at least 13% with the back half of 2013 stronger than the first half.
Moving to our Surface Technologies segment.
In surface wellhead we expect our North America business to be down from 2012 given the strong performance we delivered in the first half of the year last year and given the challenging market in 2013.
We do on the other hand expect to see a modestly improved rig count internationally which should benefit our international surface wellhead business.
However the international market growth may not be enough to offset the decline we expect in North America surface wellhead.
For 2013 we expect our fluid control business revenue will come mainly from repair and replacement activity.
We entered the year with minimal backlog associated with capital expansion and as of now we are not forecasting recovery associated with this part of the business for 2013.
In 2013 Surface Technologies will include a full year of completion services revenue.
With the addition of our completion services business we have greater exposure to Canadian breakup and thus think our revenue and margins for Surface Technologies should be at their lowest level for the year in the second quarter.
Our completion services business overall should see some activity expansion in the U.S.
as we grow its flowback presence.
In Energy Infrastructure we expect to see revenue growth over 2012 on the strength of loading systems separation systems and the full year contribution from Control Systems International.
As in previous years we expect a decline in both revenue and margins in the first quarter with better activity in the second half of the year.
We think full year margins should average over 10% as a result of the activity improvement and lower project cost.
Regarding corporate items we expect corporate expense to average approximately $13 million per quarter in 2013.
We expect other expense net to be approximately $20 million per quarter in 2013 subject to foreign currency fluctuations and any MPM earn-out adjustment that may be required if results in 2013 continue to outperform our expectations.
We expect our interest expense to average $8 million per quarter weighted toward the first half of the year.
We anticipate our 2013 tax rate to a range between 27% and 29% for the full year.
Due to 2013 changes in U.S.
tax law having retroactive effect for 2012 we do expect our first quarter tax rate to be lower than the remaining quarters since we expect to record the 2012 benefit in the first quarter.
We expect capital spending in 2013 to be approximately $400 million.
The majority of our 2013 capital spending will be directed towards subsea in Brazil Norway and West Africa along with increased spending related to growth for our subsea services offering.
For Surface Technologies our capital spending will be focused on growing our completion services flowback offerings in the United States and international-based expansions.
So in conclusion we remain optimistic that our subsea business will continue to grow profitably in 2013 and beyond and that our Surface Technologies business will perform well despite the challenging North America market we are currently facing.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Joe Hill from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> John I'm curious as to what you're seeing in West Africa with regards to some of the opportunities you touched on that gives you confidence we're going to see some of these things break loose this year.
Obviously there's been some issues within NPC and some FPO award changes and maybe a slowdown of development plans.
So just a little curious as to what gives you confidence.
I think I mentioned last quarter that we -- one of the big projects that we're targeting had a potential to slip into 2013 and now it looks like that's happened.
I would be very surprised if that project was not awarded in the first half of the year.
I know there's petroleum law issues in Nigeria and so forth but it looks like these projects are not only affected.
I know there was another project a Nigerian project I believe Erha where there was an installation contract award which would suggest that these projects are getting pretty close to breaking loose.
And I think that's what will happen.
If you look at Angola the list of projects there we'll see some activity in Angola this year.
So I think particularly Nigeria where things have stalled for the last couple of years we're going to start to see that break loose and I would be surprised if a couple of those projects weren't awarded the ones at least we're targeting in the first half of the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another question I had was how Pure performed relative to your expectations in the fourth quarter.
Yes we were pleased -- the acquisition of Pure is part of our longer-term strategy and although there's difficulties in North America their Canadian business where they're so strong held up as good as we could have expected.
I'll let Bob Potter make some comments on Pure.
Yes the integration is going really quite well.
We're beginning to see some of the synergies between our surface wellhead fluid control and flowback services business that we anticipated and we're taking advantage of those things.
Now looking at additional expansion opportunities outside of Pure's historic strength markets which were Canada and the Bakken.
And we're really pleased with the pace at which those opportunities are being realized.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more for Maryann.
Maryann what are your expectations for the balance sheet over the course of this year? The company has been building up debt and I wanted to kind of get a sense for what your comfort level is and what your expectations are for how that debt level carries forward.
Yes sure Joe.
I mean as you know we did over $600 million in acquisitions.
This year it's been over $400 million.
So we know -- we spent $1 billion this year.
We've had some working capital performance challenges in 2012 and we expect to see good recovery in 2013.
So it's my expectation by the end of the year we'll look at a net debt position that's probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 50% improved from where we sit at the end of 2012.
We're expecting performance improvement.
Clearly we've got strong cash flow expectations as you look at the growth year-on-year and then the working capital improvement that we've got forecasted in 2013.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The CapEx $400 million for this year and you talked about Norway and Brazil and then you talked about service.
And Bob you're talking about the additional expansion opportunities for Pure and you mentioned international.
How much of your CapEx in 2013 will be spent on the businesses that are -- that were Pure and that type? I don't want to be too narrow but the service -- surface -- the shale business the service business that you have.
Yes Jim.
Most of our CapEx is directed to our high-growth businesses in subsea.
The first CapEx piece is going to be to make sure that we have enough capacity to support the significant growth coming at us in subsea.
CapEx devoted to Pure would be extremely small.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That's nice to hear.
And my follow-up is the subsea business that's coming at you and you have to be ready most of what we've seen for the last 1.5 year or 2 years has been a consistent push to the right.
And with everything that's been going on in Brazil most people think whatever CAGR you were going to use for Brazil is probably a little bit lower number.
Nobody doubts the inevitability of this but do you see this year as a year of acceleration for subsea? Yes well you're right.
If you look over the last 3 years -- and I would just use trees as a proxy for activity.
Over the last 3 years the number of trees awarded per year has been in the 300 range.
And then this -- in 2012 it jumps to 414.
So you have a 30% to 40% increase in subsea activity in 2012 which will have to be delivered over the course of the next year or so.
And then you look at 2013 and it could jump again by another 30% or 40%.
And that's the growth that we've been anticipating with our CapEx spend in capacity add.
So I think it's definitely coming.
I mean it arrived in 2012 with 400 trees awarded and there's more to come in 2013 and...
Research Division</strong> Well I understand the growth but if I go back 4 years or 3 years I thought that most people in the industry would have expected a faster growth rate average than we've seen.
And I'm not arguing '11 over '12 '12 over '13 but even that's lower than we expected 3 years ago isn't it? Well I mean if you're using Quest forecast yes it is lower and the projects moved -- you're right.
Projects moved to the right and so it probably is lower.
But it still represents for an industry to respond in a couple of years to 30% to 40% growth year-over-year it takes the kind of CapEx investment that we've made over the last couple of years to make that happen.
Our next question comes from Tom Curran from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just first returning to Q4 for subsea.
So we had a sequential revenue increase that came in 50% above the minimum of $200 million you were expecting yet we actually saw a 20 basis point contraction in subsea's EBIT margin.
I don't want to parse quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in EBIT margin too much but would like to know why we didn't see more fixed cost absorption and margin at least hold steady if not increase.
And then maybe just some reassurance that the improvement trend is firmly intact.
Let me start by saying our -- or for the quarter our margin and backlog continued to improve so that's what gives us the confidence that over time the margins will improve.
But as you know our backlog is made up of lots of different projects with different margins projects that were taken at different periods in the cycle.
And therefore what happened in the fourth quarter was really an issue around mix and how certain lower-margin projects in our backlog flowed through on percent complete basis through the P&amp;L.
So that's what happened but the confidence maybe that you're looking for comes from the margin improvement and backlog continuing to progress.
But I'll let Maryann maybe talk a little bit more about the margins in the fourth quarter for subsea.
Yes Tom we talked about achieving $4 billion in revenues from a full year perspective and I think we delivered that with obviously revenues improving by at least $200 million in the fourth quarter.
As John said we've got multiple projects that we're running through in the quarter and as I mentioned in talking about 2013 guidance we are expecting to see somewhat of a decline in the first quarter.
Part of that is driven really by the mix of service business that we've got.
And in the first quarter we don't get the level of service revenue coming out of our Light Well Intervention.
It's a good time for maintenance given the weather et cetera in the North Sea.
So you'll see some variations and fluctuations.
We're managing a lot of projects as you know but on a full year basis we're expecting margins as I said at the 13% average level for 2013 which means we're probably looking at higher margins in the back half of the year than we are in the first half of the year in order to be able to achieve the 2014 progress that John has talked about and we've talked about in the past.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
So it doesn't sound as if you've really made any changes to the initial 2013 margin preview you gave last quarter.
Yes that's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then based on what you added to backlog over 4Q and the updated pricing evolution outlook you have what might be the earliest we would see a '14 handle for subsea EBIT margin? Yes.
Well we don't expect to see the orders that are received this year to show some of that pricing improvement and then there'll be -- they'll run through the P&amp;L no earlier than 2014.
And to the extent projects move a little bit to the right then it just pushes it further back into 2014.
But we definitely expect the awards to be made this year in 2013 to reflect a better pricing and better margin.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
One more for me.
John maybe just an update on subsea processing both total revenues booked in 2012 and then the project outlook for 2013 in terms of the slate of projects that could be awarded.
Right.
This new emerging technology and the industry's adoption of subsea processing we just should expect it to be lumpy and that's exactly what happened.
We saw a number of awards in 2010 and 2011 and very few if any -- just -- I think there's only 1 or 2 awards that were made in 2013.
But then you look at the slate of projects for the next 2 years and there's something like 8 or 9 projects that could potentially happen in 2013 and a similar number for 2014.
Now they're not all big EPC projects.
Some of them are just FEED studies and of course some of them may not materialize at all.
But I think this is the kind of lumpiness that we're going to have to expect for a while as the industry adopts this new technology.
But there's no question Tom about the interest.
When I look at the list of the projects the diversity of customers the diversity of geographies where this technology can be applied I think all the expectations that this is a very very important and significant material -- new segment of the industry is very much real.
LLC Research Division</strong> But has either the Eni or Total boosting tenders that were the first to bid the Sulzer pump on have either of those been awarded yet? No they haven't and we didn't expect them to be awarded yet.
What we understand is they will be awarded in 2013.
And as you know and pointed out we're very pleased that the Sulzer pump was fully qualified to participate in both of those awards this year -- or tenders this year sorry.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> John with regard to the composition of your orders in the fourth quarter for subsea especially impressive given the absence of major projects.
I mean I think you said you had 35 trees in the quarter.
You had close to $1.4 billion in inbound and that compares to a little bit more than $1.4 billion in inbound in Q1 and 85 trees and of course most of those were Petrobras in Q1.
But nonetheless revenue per tree has been really strong in the past 3 quarters and I'm just kind of wondering about the baseline order rate x major projects going forward for 2013.
Are we witnessing a decent sustained inflection higher based upon the blossoming of some of your growth platform businesses coupled with the fact that the onesies and twosies on a quarterly rate are just ramping higher? Has it been the case? Right.
Well it's not -- first of all we were pleased with the inbound from smaller call-offs in Q4.
You're right.
It was significant.
Now your question is is it sustainable? In part.
Most of it came from strength in the Gulf of Mexico and the strength in the Gulf of Mexico I think will be sustainable.
We were -- we especially benefited by significant small onesie twosie orders from our alliance partners.
Probably 70% of what we booked in the Gulf of Mexico in the fourth quarter came from our alliance partners and I've got to say that's a lot of timing in there that they arrived in the fourth quarter.
So I don't  think it's completely a new baseline going forward but the strength of the Gulf of Mexico is a baseline.
I think that is sustainable and we'll go forward.
And in some of my remarks I mentioned -- well I mentioned that we recently got the BP project which is big.
There's more to come from Exxon Shell and Anadarko this year.
So that part in the Gulf of Mexico is sustainable.
With regard to our growth platforms no not in the fourth quarter although we're obviously optimistic about both subsea processing and subsea services.
Those are growth platforms that are going to materialize over a much longer period of time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And with regard to -- sticking to subsea here for a sec I don't think you issued a prophecy with regard to the magnitude of subsea inbound for 2013 and I think we were something along the lines of $4.5 billion $4.6 billion this year.
What is a reasonable sub position for 2013 with the expectation that you're going to land some of these bigger projects that we've been waiting for coupled with the improvements that you just talked about? Right.
Well let's just start with the facts.
You're right $4.6 billion in inbound for the year which we were pleased with particularly because it was absent a large West Africa project that we had been targeting.
But I would remind you that it did include the largest subsea award ever the $1 billion Petrobras pre-salt project which will not recur.
So looking at 2013 we don't get the pre-salt recurring but we do expect to get a big project in West Africa.
So I think it would be -- we would -- we believe that the inbound for 2013 can exceed the inbound in 2012 and so we should expect an increase in inbound over 2012.
Now how high? With the timing of these big projects I think it's still a little bit too early to predict.
But definitely we should expect a higher number in 2013 for inbound from us particularly when you look at the number of projects that are out and the ones that are associated with our partners.
I'd also expect our market leadership position to be sustained in 2013.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> John just a quick update on the Campos Basin and Marlim.
I get some signals that this system is about to start now.
Can you give us an update? Yes.
As you know Ole they've had a number of challenges and obstacles on topsides and I'm sure that's been frustrating and certainly delayed the full commissioning.
As you know they're flowing fluids through our system but the big test is when the separation of boosting system gets commissioned.
And we understand also that that's -- it should happen very soon.
They're getting very close to starting commissioning and our commissioning team is ready once we get the call from Petrobras.
So we too hope that it's eminent.
Research Division</strong> And if this is eminent can you just give us an update again? How many risters [ph] are on that platform? This system is only tied to 2 of the flow lines right? I don't actually know the number.
It's tied to just one of the flow lines is my understanding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is in terms of the adoption rate of subsea I mean Pazflor has arguably been the most successful complete system on subsea processing so far given what you did there and how much capital was saved on the development as a result.
So this thing has been 18 months in operation now.
Could you give us some kind of feedback on what's going to interest to getting in that type of a system that the concept has proven? Yes I -- well you're seeing now Pazflor which is fine but I'd like to broaden a little bit.
Even though Statoil's Tordis project was -- didn't work out exactly like they thought there was tremendous interest and the technology did do what it said it was supposed to do.
And there was a lot of that interest and experience that rolled over to the Pazflor project which you're right has been -- all the feedback on Pazflor has been successful.
But I would go even further and talk about the success that Shell had when both Perdido and BC-10 -- Perdido had some flow assurance issues but BC-10 in Shell's mind was very successful.
And both of these discoveries in Shell's mind would not have been possible without subsea processing.
So I think all -- you can look at all these projects as being important milestones for the industry and their adoption of the new technology.
Now they're all solving different problems.
The technology itself is different but I think each of the operators would point to the success of how the technology was applied and meeting their expectations.
But you're probably right.
Pazflor looks like it's been successful for many many different points of view.
First oil on schedule within budget technology working.
But I'd take a little broader view.
I think that all the projects that are out there have been -- have had a successful...
Research Division</strong> And I would agree with that.
We have about 30 full projects now and we are way past the prototypes.
So if this thing materializes the way we think which is to be quite a meaningful industry opportunity what do you think they will do to your margins? Will they go down because little bit more of a systems mix in your subsea business and more engineering hours or will they go up because of higher componental [ph] technology? How should we sort of think about sales 2014 '15 longer-term margins and how they're being affected by a high degree of subsea systems? Well first of all we should definitely not think of margins as going down.
This technology is new.
It creates tremendous amount of value for the operator so I can't imagine that would margins go down.
So I would start by -- let's thinking of -- think of margins at least in terms of the margins we expect for our subsea systems.
But then beyond that I think because some of this technology is new the competitive intensity might not be so strong today.
We compete against 3 other subsea systems suppliers that are almost always qualified for tenders.
We don't -- there's not the same level of capability at least in the early stages of the development of this technology.
So I think there is some potential for improved margins on the subsea processing side but for now I think we ought to look at it as being very similar as our subsea systems margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you don't think that it will be dilutive to what your margins otherwise would have been? I think that's important.
Yes I don't see it being dilutive particularly if your point is in terms of pass-throughs and that sort of thing we think...
Research Division</strong> Yes well just more engineering and less manufacturing.
That's not what we saw on the -- on BC-10 Perdido Pazflor.
We saw very similar margins to our subsea systems.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one related follow-up if I may.
I mean you're endorsing your alternative subsea pump the Sulzer.
As you break into the market with that pump do you think that will have any kind of negative margin impact on industry as a whole? Or is there too many projects out there to handle? Yes I can't imagine that it would necessarily be negative.
I mean obviously there's just one provider today so there was really no competitive environment.
But I think the industry is looking for multiple suppliers for the helico-axial pump and I wouldn't imagine that there would be a -- I don't really know how dilutive another supplier would be.
I think it's important that the industry have multiple suppliers and the operators are encouraging that.
I don't -- I think the margins on the pump we expect anyway it to be....
Research Division</strong> Let's say it will not be dilutive to your margins.
You will [indiscernible] industry.
Right.
Well I don't know what the margins are for the competition so I can't really speak.
But I'm sure when there's...
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita from UBS.
Research Division</strong> John any initial thoughts on the one subsea joint venture between Cameron and Schlumberger based on what you know today? What we know is just the statements that have been made by the organization and they make their statements that actually we've made for some time.
I mean they point to the growth of the subsea market which we are convinced of.
They point to the importance of increased ore recovery which we also believe strongly in.
They see the importance of subsea processing as part of the technical answer to that which is something that we feel strongly about and have for some time.
There's also this point about the importance of systems integration.
And as you know Angie one of the things that has contributed to our market leadership in subsea is we are a systems provider providing the integration.
So I think that's another point that we feel strongly about that being a systems provider is in fact an advantage because you can optimize through integrating the various components of the subsea system.
And then finally something that also resonates with us is the importance of working with an operator very very early in the life of the field particularly at the FEED study to optimize the entire subsea system.
And through our significant alliance partners that's exactly what we've been doing for a number of years again contributing to our relations [ph].
So these kinds of themes if you will that were -- we've heard from the one subsea organization is very much what FMC has built our subsea business around for several years.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
And as follow-up to that is as you pointed out very fairly that you do have a high number of frame agreement and alliances which are already in place.
So thus I would assume you feel confident in your maintaining your current market share.
And also as a reminder how long is the duration of your average frame agreements and alliances? Right.
So you're exactly right.
The biggest contributor to our market share being sustained -- and again we ended 2012 with just under 40% market share and the leadership position again.
And it comes from the fact that almost 50% of our inbound comes from our alliance partners.
And that will be important as the market expands into subsea processing and other capabilities.
It will be our -- we'll again work with our alliance partners as we introduce that new technology.
To answer your point about how long the alliances last yes they're contractual and they have kind of beginning and end dates but that's not really what sustains them.
What sustains them is our performance.
And you think about our relationship with Shell which is almost 20 years and our relationship with Anadarko that goes back 20 years our relationship with BP that's now starting its second decade these relationships they're sustained not just because of some time frame on a contract but because of our level of performance and the value that's created.
And I think that's how you have to look at it.
And we pay a lot of attention to that as you can appreciate.
Research Division</strong> No I -- that's fair.
And then as a follow-up.
On the agreement with the Sulzer pumps for subsea boosting how does this pump -- the technology differ from the Framo pump? And then second I would assume the bids you already have outstanding are maybe a combination of Framo-specified pumps and now the newly-added Sulzer pumps.
Right.
Well the Sulzer pump which we've been -- which we've had fully qualified now and is qualified to tender for Total Petrobras Eni and others that in terms of performance would look very much like the Framo pump.
It's based on the same patent technology so you ought to look at that pump as being fully compatible with the Framo pump.
Our relationship with Sulzer the one that we announced earlier this year is really about the next-generation pump.
And our collaboration -- or an exclusive relationship with Sulzer is designed to what will the next-generation pump look like.
And we're already busy working on that and that's why that collaboration agreement -- exclusive collaboration agreement with Sulzer was so important is because it defines the path forward for the next-generation pump.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally on the subsea pricing are you -- give us an update on what you're seeing from the degree of discipline from your peers and the outlook for pricing in 2013.
And is it possible that pricing does not recover or in your view is it only a matter of time? In my view it's only a matter of time.
The outlook is we're convinced that the pricing will improve and it should start to improve definitely in 2013.
I'd feel a little bit more -- I'll feel a little bit better when I actually see these awards show up with the better pricing but we certainly know how we're pricing and we're pricing for a market that's in an up cycle.
When you look at that sheer number of large projects for example EPC projects that will be -- that have been awarded in the second half of 2012 and will be awarded in 2013 they really start to bump up against the industry's capacity to deliver that many EPC contracts concurrently and that should drive different pricing behavior.
What we've seen so far is a decline in what I would call competitive intensity.
Now these are kind of qualitative kind of remarks but when you look at the number of bidders that start out with a tendered project and then end up at the very end it's reduced.
Typically we'll see everybody participate in a large tender and then as the tender progresses several fall off and it's down to just 1 or 2.
We didn't see that 3 years ago but that's what we're seeing now and that's where that competitive intensity is starting to drop off.
And I believe that's a precursor to better pricing certainly as some of the other subsea suppliers are faced with filling up their backlog which we've seen.
One competitor that's been particularly aggressive over the last couple of years has won something like 4 or 5 EPC contracts in the last 18 months alone and that would exceed at least their demonstrated capacity by 2x and 3x and you'd think that would start to influence their approach on some of these tenders.
And that's what we're counting on and expecting to see in 2013.
Our next question comes from Rob MacKenzie from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to some comments made earlier in your prepared remarks I believe about the surface business.
Particularly the fluid control business being primarily or almost entirely just maintenance activity this year and it's been my impression that that is far more profitable in the OEM portion of that business.
A is that correct and B if so what should that do to our view of how margins progress in that segment? Right.
Well first of all with regard to margins between the repair and the placement versus the CapEx those margins are the same.
It's the same identical equipment.
It's just used for capital build when the pressure pumps are adding capacity.
So those margins are the same.
What -- the only difference there would be when we talk about our pumping business.
That has lower margins.
But the WECO/Chiksan treating iron has the same margins whether it's sold in a CapEx to expand fleet capacity or in repair and replacement.
Those margins are the same.
You're right though.
In the fourth quarter we saw virtually no fluid control inbound for CapEx.
And historically in a normal market if there is such a thing we could see as much as 25% of our inbound being CapEx.
And during the peak we saw as much as 50% of our inbound was CapEx.
That's now all gone to 0.
And it carries with it those same high margins of fluid controls repair and replacement and that will hurt us going forward.
In the fourth quarter our revenue from fluid control actually included some CapEx that was in backlog and that goes away in the first quarter.
So we'll actually see a little more deterioration because the fluid control mix will go down in the first quarter.
Now as we said in the remarks we're -- we don't see any improvement in the CapEx happening in the first half.
We're hopeful that there might be some of that in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And apologies if I missed it earlier.
In terms of your subsea margin guidance for this year how much is the recovery I guess or increase later in the year coming out of 1Q is the -- is related to finishing up Laggan-Tormore and perhaps CLOV by midyear versus just greater cost absorption? Yes Rob it's Maryann.
We certainly have some CLOV revenues coming through in 2013.
We're close to about 70% complete on that project but CLOV revenues will come through but will be completed.
On Laggan-Tormore we're essentially complete on that project.
So the percentage of our lower-margin projects in 2013 is reduced from the revenue contribution of those lower-margin projects in '12.
But as I mentioned I think you should expect to see the margin progression more toward the back half of the year than you would in Q1 and Q2 just based on the distribution as we see it today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question is centered around other comments you made on subsea about the service business potentially being down in 1Q.
Can you give us a feel for the magnitude of that and is it just seasonality you see there? Yes it's just seasonality.
We are expecting growth in our services business from '12 to '13.
Typically our first quarter in any given year tends to be our lightest quarter with respect to the service contribution.
So nothing abnormal there yet.
We go through recertification of our units and that happens typically in the first quarter just given the weather and the ability for us to get it done in that quarter.
So nothing abnormal.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to hone in on the revenue growth in a little more detail.
Taking a look at the $4.6 billion in backlog for subsea historical conversion rates it seems like something 10% or certainly higher than that revenue growth in '13 is reasonable but I appreciate that there's a large pre-salt Petrobras contract in there as well.
Is 10% reasonable as we look at '13? Doug I'll let Maryann get into the details and how we calculate it.
But sure I do want to point out which you already pointed out and that is where in the backlog is sitting there with this big multiyear Petrobras project that will not flow -- the whole amount won't flow through a normal S curve through the 2013 P&amp;L so thanks for taking that into consideration.
The other thing is just the timing of these big awards.
We get them early in the year and then we've got a chance of getting further down that expense curve.
If they get pushed to the right there's less that we can book.
And so that's the part that's a little bit tough to calculate.
But I'll let Maryann walk you through how we can calculate subsea revenue.
Right.
And as you correctly stated because of that $1 billion the conversion rate that we're expecting or estimating if you will for 2013 is in the neighborhood of about 60%.
And that's obviously because we've got some large projects awards in there that are multiyear in delivery in nature.
So we're expecting around 60% conversion from that backlog.
The other element of that as you know is service and as I just mentioned we're expecting service to grow.
So that's somewhere in the range of about $1.2 billion.
And then the key element here is the timing of when we see the project awards in 2013 for us to be able to get revenue if you will from that what we call book-in-turn [ph].
So again just to summarize roughly 60% coming out of the backlog about $1.2 billion from our services business and then the balance will be from book-in-turn [ph] based on how we're successful inbounding projects this year.
Research Division</strong> And just for perspective what did book-in-turn [ph] run in 2012? Yes it was approximately about $500 million in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to surface.
I know there's a lot of moving parts there between international and the U.S.
and fluid control but also adding in the Pure acquisition is it reasonable that revenue is pretty flat in '13 versus '12? In subsea -- excuse me in Surface Technologies as you know we've sort of got a range depending on what happens to us in North America.
But when we look at the contribution of Pure year-on-year at the bottom end of our guidance even with the increase that's contributed from a full year of Pure completion services our revenues could be flattish.
At the top end of our guidance depending on how quickly we can see the strength of the international market and whether or not we see recovery in North America then we could see revenues above 2012 but again driven by the strength of Pure given that we've got a full year versus just one quarter in 2012.
Our next question comes from Brian Uhlmer from Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a couple of quick questions about the balance sheet.
I was curious how -- number one we've had a pretty sizable working cap build over the last 7 quarters or so.
Moving forward do we expect that build to continue? And the second question is along those lines if it continues at the same rate we're still going to generate about $200 million of cash in 2013.
How are you looking at spending that cash? And that's a number post-CapEx on the buybacks and/or possibly -- considering that the topic du jour has been dividends in our space.
Yes you're right.
Over the last couple of quarters as it looks at our working capital performance we probably could have done a better job.
We are projecting for 2013 for a couple of reasons -- and part of that actually has to do with if you will the pace at which we were executing our projects.
We are seeing some growth in the services business so keep in mind that'll have a different impact on our business going forward.
But as we're looking at 2013 we are projecting a fairly significant improvement coming from working capital improvement as well as from the inbound of project awards in the subsea business.
So we are not expecting to see the continuation if you will of past couple of quarters.
But again as the service business grows that will have some of an impact.
As we look at 2013 in terms of uses of cash obviously we're projecting another $400 million.
We continue to see opportunities to reinvest that cash flow in the businesses to generate the kinds of returns that we have and we'll continue to do that as appropriate.
We're always obviously looking for opportunities to do acquisitions to fill out the niche technologies that we're looking for.
And then we've got an active share repurchase program and we'll continue to use that share repurchase program.
So again investing in the businesses through the capital expansions that we talked about and then using share repurchase for now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so dividends are clearly not on the table? Not for 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second you've talked about Mad Dog.
At some point you -- previously we've discussed that that may get awarded in phases and I just was wondering -- a little bit clarity on how big this phase was.
Maybe if you can provide us with number of tress or range of value either/or.
We -- first of all there has been a press release with all those details so I won't give those details now.
But I think what's significant is the potential for Mad Dog project has some 30-plus trees over time.
It's really the first big project that we've been awarded under our frame agreement so that's clearly a positive and the fact that BP is now moving out to start the development of their very large subsea portfolio.
So we're really encouraged by that.
But this call-off will be -- it'll be just a piece of it.
Not insignificant but it won't be the whole amount.
They'll do it in call-offs and pieces and that will come out in the details later.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I'll look for the PR.
I had one kind of question on the overall market your thoughts.
The original I guess forecast was for 560-ish trees to be awarded in '12 and you said that 414 was the total.
If you look at that 143 gap do you think that that was -- I mean we can quantify probably half of that was project shifted to the right and the rest aren't as easily tangible or quantifiable.
Can you give us some thoughts on that and whether it was project shifting or projects that just aren't getting done or change of plans? Or just how do you make up in that delta and then on '12 on the actual results versus the initial forecast? And I know that's not your forecast so...
No that's fine.
It's fine.
We support that kind of growth.
So it may not be our forecast but that kind of growth is what we believe in.
And you already pointed out Brian first those big projects in West Africa.
We didn't have significant project awards in West Africa like we originally envisioned.
So that took a whole bunch of trees out of 2012.
The other thing is Petrobras.
Petrobras was talking -- their big pre-salt tender had a lot of trees on it.
We were fortunate that we won the big award.
There was one other much smaller award that was made last year but nothing else.
And I think there's some new Petrobras rules now and maybe the pace at which Petrobras starts releasing some of those requirements may be spread out over time and that probably contributed -- well I know it contributed to some of the difference between 2012 and the tree forecast lower Petrobras awards.
Our last question comes from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Maryann just one question for you.
I know you discussed Surface Tech expectations here.
I still did not hear though what do you look for in terms of the average margin for 2013 in that business? You're right Bill.
You didn't hear me give an average margin.
As you know fluid control is a large component of Surface Technologies.
We're dealing with a lot of variables none the least of which is rig count timing of recovery from capital expansion coming back.
Pricing is clearly another variable and then intensity.
So if you look at kind of the margins that we generated in the fourth quarter and as John mentioned in fluid control we're likely to see a decline in Q1 given the fact that we had backlog that we don't have.
So in the first half of the year I would think margins in Surface Technologies in total might be below what you saw in the fourth quarter.
As we continue to ramp up on the the international side we might be able to see some recovery on the international side which should help us improve margins.
So we've got a bit of a range here depending on how quickly we can get recovery coming out of North America and the pace at which those variables change.
But at least for the first half of the year the margins that you saw in Q4 on average for total surface are likely to be below that.
And then we'd hope obviously that we can improve that in the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you -- still you said earlier 2Q low point due to Canada.
You got it.
That's right.
And that's in Surface Tech yes.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
John I guess just one follow-up for you as it relates just back on the subsea order outlook here.
I know you didn't necessarily give an emphatic endorsement on a number by any means on your earlier -- in an earlier question but you made a comment -- I think you expected the industry to see 30% to 40% growth year-over-year.
I mean is that a reasonable number to assign to your orders here in terms of growth '13 versus '12? It just seems like there's an awful lot out there with a higher baseline here that the numbers should be substantially up '13 versus '12.
Yes we just -- Bill we just want to be careful because for that to happen the 30% to 40% we have to have these big project in West Africa land in 2013.
And as we saw in 2012 this big projects have a tendency to move to the right.
So I think they can't move to the right to get that sort of 30% increase that we're talking about.
So that's why -- that's clearly why I want to be a little bit careful in putting some big number out there so early in the year when these projects they have to show up.
So is the potential to be there? Absolutely.
Let's get some of these big projects to land in the year before we start picking a really big number like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just so I'm clear just on the fourth quarter subsea margin performance it doesn't sound like it was anything -- I know John maybe one of your concerns had been you guys have been aggressive on the hiring front bringing in a lot of new people and having costs associated with that.
And then clearly with the orders getting pushed to the right that maybe from a timing standpoint you might see some under-absorption from quarter-to-quarter making margins a bit lumpy in subsea.
Was there any impact to that at all in 4Q in terms of the margin performance we saw? No but you bring up a good point.
That wasn't the case in Q4 but in Q1 you might see some of that.
There's like I mentioned a big project that we were expecting in 2012 that moved to 2013.
So we could see that that lumpiness that you described in the first and second quarter while this new inbound shows up and starts to match up with the capacity work that we've done over the last year or so.
I'll turn it back to you Brad for your closing remarks.
This concludes our fourth quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our first quarter 2013 conference call on April 24 at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
John you may end the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the FMC Technologies First Quarter 2013 Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Alexander.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our first quarter 2013 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our President.
I will discuss highlights from the quarter.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Earnings were $0.43 per diluted share for the quarter.
Total company quarterly revenue was $1.6 billion and operating profit was $167 million.
Subsea Technologies inbounded $1.2 billion of awards in the quarter which included 26 subsea trees.
Segment backlog now stands at $4.6 billion.
Revenue for the quarter in Subsea Technologies was $1.1 billion an increase of 22% over the prior year quarter.
As projected our subsea margins were down sequentially.
Our mix of work was less favorable than in the fourth quarter and we also incurred planned downtime for recertification of one of our intervention stacks.
Both of these were anticipated.
In addition we accelerated R&amp;D spending that was originally a plan to occur throughout the year.
The industry received a record 238 subsea tree awards in the first quarter.
And as a result the subsea backlogs of all the suppliers continue to strengthen.
We're encouraged as the growing subsea market is materializing very much as we thought and this is supported by the large number of awards occurring early in the year.
The industry is on track to deliver another year of significant order growth.
Our awards during the quarter included projects from our partners Shell and Statoil.
Growth is coming from increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico and this is evidenced by the recent Shell award related to multiple developments.
With Statoil we received orders related to their Smorbukk South and Tyrihans fields in the North Sea.
We received the industry's first pre-salt manifold award from Petrobras during the quarter.
We expect additional pre-salt manifold and tree awards from Petrobras later in the year.
In addition Total has now authorized us to proceed with work on the subsea production equipment associated with the Total Egina development in Nigeria.
During the last few months we've signed subsea service agreements with Statoil Petrobras and Total.
We're providing an array of life of field services including maintenance modification refurbishment and offshore technical services for these customers.
The service requirements associated with subsea fields are increasing and we expect that this growth should become an even more significant part of our revenue in the future.
Regarding the Petrobras Marlim separation project the oil-water separation pilot system is now under transition from commissioning to operating phase.
Tests on the systems have begun and there were no issues with the system components.
We're optimistic the system will be completely operational very soon.
Success of this system supports our belief that the future of deepwater developments includes an ever-expanding infrastructure on the seafloor.
As the number of aging deepwater wells with high levels of water production increases solutions like this should become very important to deepwater operators.
Turning to our Surface Technologies segment.
Surface Technologies' results were in line with our expectations.
When compared to 2012 these results reflect the addition of our completion services business and growth in our international surface wellhead business partially offset by the decline in the U.S.
field -- fluid control and surface wellhead businesses.
Surface Technologies business was down from the fourth quarter consistent with the reduced North America rig count.
This has negatively impacted the pricing for our frac rental assets and reduced our volume of fluid controls specifically revenue associated with the pressure pumping capital expansion.
Also sequentially we saw increased activity in our completion service businesses -- business as it benefited from the first quarter pickup in Canada.
Canadian breakup will materially reduce our activity from completion services during the second quarter.
U.S.
rig count was stable during the quarter and we expect to see some improvement in the U.S.
rig count as we progress through the year.
International service activity was strong during the quarter as rig counts were up sequentially and we continue to perform well in both the Middle East and Europe.
Looking forward the subsea market is growing as we projected evidenced by the significant number of first quarter awards.
The industry is trending towards a record number of tree awards for the full year.
Margins in our subsea backlog continue to improve and will be reflected in our results in the second half of 2013.
Our investments to expand our capacity over the last few years have prepared us to execute on this increased level of activity.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks John.
Subsea Technologies' operating profit was $99 million in the quarter with a margin of 9.1%.
Margins in the quarter are partly the result of a lower contribution of subsea services work as we anticipated.
Aftermarket service activity was down in the fourth -- first quarter as one of our well intervention stacks was out of service for required industry certification and the North Sea experienced its seasonal decline in activity.
Also in the quarter we accelerated development and qualification efforts.
These activities relate directly to furthering our subsea processing technologies and advancing our well access systems.
Both of these actions support our strategic growth platforms in subsea.
These accelerated investments increased costs in the quarter.
We elected to complete the work ahead of planned schedule to further our processing capabilities for future opportunities.
The overall spending associated with these developments was planned to occur throughout 2013.
As a result of this decision we should now experience lower spending in the back half of the year.
As John mentioned we have started work for Total on the Egina project.
A decision to mobilize the project team ahead of this action and maintain readiness for this award resulted in higher-than-expected cost with lower revenue and margin contribution in the quarter.
Our subsea mix should improve during each of the remaining quarters this year as the margin profile of our project revenue improve.
We expect to see subsea revenue growth in excess of 10% this year and full year subsea margins should average 13%.
The back half of the year is expected to be much stronger than the first half as we benefit from the lower spending and stronger margin projects.
Moving on to our Surface Technology results.
Surface Technology operating profit for the first quarter was $57 million a 27% decrease from the prior year quarter.
As we expected we saw the decline of fluid control activity and volume in the first quarter as a result of curtailed frac capacity expansion.
Also contributing to the quarter-over-quarter profit decline was a less favorable pricing environment related to frac rental assets within our North American surface wellhead business offset in part by stronger performance from the international markets.
The contribution of our completion services business improved our year-over-year sales volume and profit.
Sequentially international surface wellhead quarterly sales were strong with heavy activity in both the Middle East and Europe.
We experienced the anticipated decline in fluid control activity which impacted our margin performance.
Our completion services business delivered solid results as its best performance comes in the first quarter given its exposure to the Canadian market.
Margins in the quarter were 13.6%.
This was consistent with our expectation of seeing margin degradation during the first 2 quarters of 2013 followed by some improvement in the back half of the year.
This is dependent on the North American activity showing some improvement in the third and fourth quarters which would drive increases in repair and replacement sales for fluid control.
Orders for Surface Technology for the quarter were $449 million as international surface wellhead orders had their strongest quarter on record.
Backlog exiting the quarter stands at $522 million for this segment with the year-over-year reduction coming from the absence of capital orders for fluid control equipment offset partially by growth in international surface wellhead orders.
Energy Infrastructure operating income for the first quarter was $10 million with margins of 7.4%.
We still expect full year operating income to increase driven by improved results in loading systems and separation systems with full year margins averaging about 10%.
Now for our corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $10.3 million.
We expect this number to average between $12 million and $13 million per quarter for the remainder of 2013.
Other revenue and expense net reflects the expense of $17 million.
We expect this to average approximately $20 million per quarter in 2013 subject to foreign exchange fluctuations and any MPM earn-out adjustment that may be required if results in 2013 outperform our current expectations.
Our first quarter tax rate was 21.9% as we benefited from the retroactive impact of changes in U.S.
tax law enacted in January which reinstated an extended certain provision.
We expect our 2013 tax rate to be between 26% and 28% for the full year.
Capital spending this quarter was $79 million primarily directed towards Subsea Technologies' expansion initiative.
We continue to expect capital spending in 2013 to be approximately $400 million.
In Surface Technologies our limited capital spending was directed towards expansion of our flowback services within our completion services business.
At the end of the first quarter we had net debt of $1.4 billion.
It was comprised of $237 million of cash and $1.7 billion of debt.
We averaged $239.4 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
We repurchased 570 000 shares of stock during the first quarter at an average cost of $47.32 per share.
So in summary subsea margins in the quarter were lower than we originally expected as we accelerated development and qualification spending for subsea processing technologies and well access systems while incurring costs related to assembling the Egina project team.
Margins associated with Surface Technologies were in line with our expectation as our business performed well.
Looking forward we are confident regarding subsea inbound in 2013 as both the market and FMC should experience record volumes.
We expect subsea margins to improve as we progress through the year averaging 13% for the full year and Surface Technologies' margins should trough in the second quarter as a result of greater exposure to Canadian breakup and then begin their improvement in the second half of the year.
We are maintaining our full year earnings guidance in a range of $2.05 to $2.25 per share.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Igor Levi filling in for Ole.
So it looks like you're getting ready to start the system at Marlim.
It's done with commissioning.
Could you talk about a little bit about the results you've seen there so far in that commissioning process and the implications you see on the subsea processing adoption from this technology working successfully? Igor you're right.
The Marlim pilot which is the world's first water-oil separation and reinjection in deepwater reached a very critical milestone within the quarter and that's shifting from commissioning to operational mode.
So it's -- yes it's pretty exciting.
There have -- this system is complicated it involves almost 20 new technologies that went through extensive qualification and each of those technologies had to be integrated in a complex system.
So for this pilot to shift to operating mode is a very big deal.
There were no issues associated with the operational performance.
This is a big success for Petrobras so I really need to let Petrobras at their time comment on more of the details around Marlim.
But with regard to implications you are right.
The -- I mean there are implications for Petrobras because of the nature of the Campos field and the large water cut.
The large population of older subsea wells in that basin they're really dependent upon new technology to boost production and improve the reservoir recovery rates.
So this is big for Petrobras.
There's implications with this technology.
The implications are that this technology will be used by Petrobras.
The pace of which they do that and how they assess using this new technology now it is becoming field proven is really up to Petrobras.
But Igor I also think it has implications for the industry at large.
Any time you have this kind of technology in a commercial application that's proved out successfully it means that the industry will start to adopt it.
And of course that's what we're counting on as we continue to make investments in subsea processing technology.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So it looks like another big step for subsea processing here.
And just following up on the same topic it looks like the Moho Nord the subsea equipment package we have earned an award for that.
So now we're waiting for the subsea boosting package.
And I think the other one is the Eni -- I think it was 15/06 that were also waiting for a subsea boosting.
Could you talk a little bit about kind of the timing? Is that tender expected to be out in the first half of the year? And kind of what we should expect? Right.
Well you're correct.
Both of those projects Total Moho and Eni 15/06 are the 2 big commercial subsea processing projects that are likely -- that will be -- we believe will be awarded this year.
The tendering has already been done and we expect that the Total Moho award is imminent; Eni 15/06 later this year.
So we fully expect both of those awards to be made this year.
Now this will be the second subsea processing project for Total but it will be the first for Eni.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just to be clear you guys are qualified for both of these? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell from Cowen.
Research Division</strong> John this is kind of a conceptual question.
But today we have something like 118 deepwater and ultra-deepwater rigs drilling and we have another 85 under construction.
Certainly the subsea tree orders reflect drilling that was done years ago and you're looking at an 80% potential expansion of the fleet.
What do you think that means looking out several years for the potential of subsea tree orders worldwide? Well Jim when you look at the backlog of deepwater discoveries which keeps growing each year.
In 2012 there were -- it was another increase in deepwater discoveries and a backlog of over 300 deepwater discoveries that have to get developed.
I think it supports the growth in deepwater rigs to get this done.
It also supports continued exploration in the deepwater environment because that's where hydrocarbons are.
So I think this is all consistent with the story that the operators realize and I guess the rig operators understand that this potential is out there and they're going to need to meet demand by increasing capacity.
So I think it's all part of the same story of deepwater development growth.
Research Division</strong> I mean is it -- John is it right to think about the level of subsea completions today more indicative of drilling that happened let's say 3 to 4 years ago? And could we actually be looking at levels of subsea completions? Do you think in 4 to 5 years of 1 000 per year? I mean is there -- that significant growth just because if you compare the growth of the deepwater rig fleet and then assume a certain percentage make the discoveries it would seem that you should be looking at that number of subsea tree orders looking out.
Surely the subsea market is going to grow for all the reasons that you suggested the continued exploration success and developing the backlog of discoveries.
The pace at which it grows Jim is going to be dependent on lots of constraints how many -- how much of any operators deepwater portfolio can they develop within any given year and over time.
And so I think that will be kind of the governor on the pace of growth.
It'll be the ability for the industry to develop these many projects at any given time and that's a little -- just like FMC we're ramping up our capacity.
Others in the industry are doing the same thing.
And if the pace of that ramp-up can match the available opportunities then it'll grow at that rate.
But there's no question that there is growth.
It'll just be the pace of which these new discoveries are developed and I think that will be driven by just addressing constraints.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for you Maryann.
With the accelerated expenditures in the first quarter of the year and the fact that you guys staffed up and prepped '14 in advance if you had an accelerated expenditures so what -- what was that impact on margins? Yes Kurt as I said we certainly expected our margins to decline but we didn't expect the sequential decline quite as what we saw.
I would say difficult to give you an exact number of course but -- and you know we don't give quarterly guidance but we expected the back half of the year to be stronger initially.
We continue to expect that to be stronger.
The key difference here for us was the mix.
And in the services area the decline which impacted the plan impacted the sequential decline.
The R&amp;D costs were accelerated from the back half of the year.
They're expected to be completed in the first quarter and we'll see that savings in the back half of the year.
So again margins were expected to be stronger than what we had initially -- what we printed but we're also going to assume that the sequential improvement occurs in the second quarter but again much stronger in the back half.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then John for you.
You indicated that your margins in the backlog continued to improve.
I'm wondering if you might be able to give us some context around that.
Are margins for subsea work now at and/or above where they were at the prior highs heading into 2006 2007? The margins are not at the prior highs in backlog because our backlog margins are in transition.
We're transitioning from and flushing through lower margins of the projects that were incurred during the down cycle.
They're being replaced by projects that we won -- now this is in backlog -- projects that we won last year which was this transition period.
We hadn't seen the awards at much higher prices.
We hadn't seen the backlogs of our competitors the other suppliers fill up.
So -- but everybody saw that the market was increasing so that was reflected in the pricing.
Going forward the awards that we're going to see later this year into the next; year they're going to reflect the market with backlogs that are largely full and more growth and so that will be at an even higher level.
That's the kind of pricing that we saw in 2008 so we're not there.
So it would be unfair to look at our backlog which is a mix of pricing that occurred through this transition and say it was the same as what we saw in 2008.
Is it better? Obviously they might say that the margins have improved from where we were a year ago and even 2 years ago.
But I wouldn't say the margins in backlog are all at the peak pricing we saw in 2008.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right right.
But your -- what you see physically coming is going to indicate an acceleration in the margin and backlog as you exit this year? Absolutely and that's what drives us.
As Maryann said earlier that's what drives the margin improvement in the second half.
We're flushing out as we did in the first quarter and we'll also do in the second quarter lower-margin business projects like CLOV.
They're getting flushed out in the first half a little bit in the -- into the third quarter being replaced by higher margins and that's going to be reflected in our backlog.
It'll be reflected in margins to flow through the P&amp;L late this year.
And it'll go into those -- it'll go into the eventual margins that support 2014 business.
Our next question comes from David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Kind of stay on that margin topic just for a minute here.
In order to get to your 13% margin guidance it looks like you're going to have to do something like 15% margins in the fourth quarter.
Can you help us just to understand kind of how this progression happens because we haven't really seen margins like that? I understand you're saying you're flushing out kind of older kind of lower margin stuff but is that the direction we have to go? Yes.
Absolutely David.
I mean when we look at our margins in backlog and how it's going to flow through the P&amp;L the higher-margin business which we received later last year as the market was improving starts to show up in bigger ways in the P&amp;L as we move to the S curves of our project.
And those show up at the end of the year and they start to get to the margin numbers that you just illustrated.
Also keep in mind that our subsea services grow -- is going to grow anyway but we also get that vessel in that intervention stack back in service in the second half plus as Maryann mentioned that acceleration of R&amp;D spending we're taking it out of the back half and moving it to the front half.
All of those contribute to higher margins.
But let me turn it over to Maryann to give you more color on the margin progression the roadmap for better margins in the second half of the year.
The other thing is of course our lower-margin projects like CLOV Laggan-Tormore while more heavily weighted in the first quarter Laggan-Tormore's essentially completed and CLOV is more heavily weighted in Q1 and Q2.
So as John said we replaced these lower-margin projects with stronger-margin projects.
And of course because of the volume in the back half of the year we see better absorption as well.
So lower cost better absorption higher contribution from our services better mix of projects flowing through in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> So that services mix is that sort of like an aftermarket margin business that's considerably higher than your core business? That's right David.
It's what we consider our aftermarket so it includes of course our commissioning as well as all of the other work that we do repair and maintenance and some growth obviously that we'll be seeing from Statoil.
We talked about that.
I think on the last quarter Statoil has got a nice backlog of opportunity for repair and replacement of their trees.
We'll see that flow through as you saw the announcement earlier in the month on the contract with Statoil.
And similarly of course we've signed some services contracts with Petrobras as John mentioned and Total as well.
So we'll see some -- we will certainly see some growth in the services component of our business this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a different topic.
We've seen Woodside canceling an L&amp;G project not too long ago.
BP's decision on to push back Mad Dog I think had some investors kind of wondering what's going on with the thought process on them.
I was wondering if you could specifically talk about Mad Dog how that impacts your business? But more importantly kind of what's behind these decisions? It doesn't seem to be a function of capital equipment inflation.
So is this more on the EPC side that they're struggling with? Right good question.
With regard to Mad Dog we announced initial call off from the Mad Dog project that was relatively small compared to the entire project.
That's actually in our backlog.
Three weeks ago we were advised by BP to spend work on Mad Dog.
It's still in our backlog and it will remain in our backlog because per BP Mad Dog is "excellent resource." They are fully committed to developing Mad Dog but their development plan is not one they want to go forward with right now.
They would -- well they want that plan reworked and they're anxious to rework the plan the entire development plan to make the field more economical in their minds.
They've asked us to actually help them with reworking the plan.
So the Mad Dog is on pause right now.
What was behind that? I think it was the nature of their plan.
As you say I mean the plan in their minds was not as economical as it needed to be or they believe that it could be and they want the plan reworked.
That's not completely uncommon in the industry.
Fortunately it doesn't happen all the time but it's not completely uncommon that the original development plans get all the way to the final investment decision and things change and they decided to rework the plans.
Usually it results in a kind of postponement or deferment of the project while the plans are reworked.
But in most of the cases or maybe all the cases I can remember eventually the fields get developed.
They just get developed in a different way than what's originally envisioned.
That's what's happening on Mad Dog.
I can't really speak to the Woodside deferment I mean with LNG plans.
I think you've got a lot more elements that could be driving to be markets.
It could be contract for gas et cetera.
So I can't speak to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's not -- this is kind of more of a one-off as what you're saying on Mad Dog? This is very specific to this field.
This isn't sort of a change in philosophy that you're seeing there.
I just want to make sure that's not what you're seeing.
Absolutely.
And I think you can just look at the evidence of the big West Africa projects that are going ahead.
And we talked to BP about their big deepwater portfolio.
They're proceeding on elements of their portfolio.
This is unique to Mad Dog.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> John to start with you your commentary on Egina was cryptic and also tantalizing.
So what exactly does it mean now your statement on Egina? What it means is we now have a green light to proceed with the project.
So as Maryann suggested we've had teams -- well I mean Egina is a project that's been out there.
It's been delayed a little bit frustrating for us because we've been preparing for Egina.
We want to execute well and we've mobilized teams.
We've been doing work and we haven't been able to actually proceed with that work.
Now we have authorization from Total to proceed.
So the teams that we've had mobilized are now engaged and doing the work on Egina.
There -- what will happen later in the quarter there will be an announcement from us and from Total that lays out the entire contract value and all the specifics.
That Total -- we're not prepared to do that now but that will come later in the quarter.
What -- so I apologize if sounded cryptic but the important thing is the major project for the industry and for our company is now got a green light to proceed.
So that means the clock starts ticking on delivery.
It means that we can start booking revenue.
We can engage our resources to proceed with the design and production of that equipment.
So it's a bit of a...
Research Division</strong> And what's the impediment to actually sign the contract if there is -- I mean if that's even the right word? Is it basically just dotting Is and crossing Ts or is it more than trivial...
No no.
Definitely that.
No no no.
It's just being -- it's just timing of our earnings call versus when they're prepared to authorize a formal announcement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's great news.
Maryann to go through with you the components of your revenue guidance for a second on subsea.
You mentioned that subsea revenues up 10% for the year correct? That's correct Bill yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so those components would be if memory serves backlog conversion 60% out of backlog coming in into the year $1.2 billion of customer support and booking churn in the vicinity of $500 million to $550 million.
Are those roughly the building blocks for the revenue generation for this year? That's correct.
Our next question is from Brad Handler from Jefferies LLC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll please take the margin conversation one step further and see how much we can discuss 2014 and recognizing it's very early in the process.
But the suggestion seems to be that we're exiting at a very strong margin rate.
And then perhaps depending on I guess service revenues and R&amp;D expenditure that the margin expectations for '14 might even be stronger than I think our prior conversations have led us to.
Can you offer some -- I think you probably know what I'm suggesting.
Can you offer some thoughts on that? Yes I'll start Brad and ask Maryann to add to my comments.
You have to remember that our backlog is made up of a wide variety of margins even in an upcycle.
And we've got very attractive projects that flow through at a heavy rate in terms of P&amp;L revenue in the third and fourth quarter this year.
I think you get into 2014 and we understand we're talking about these extra rates of margins for 2000 -- the end of 2013 how do they flow and improve as we go into 2014.
You just have to remember that in 2014 we'll have a whole mix of projects.
And I think we still believe and maybe it feels conservative given what we've been -- just talked about.
But we still believe that the margins in 2014 will be in the mid-teens.
Can they be better than that? Perhaps.
But remember we'll be operating the full force of all of our projects that are in backlog and they don't all carry the same margin.
And so it's that mix that will occur throughout '14 that links us to the mid-teens margin projection for 2014.
But I'll let Maryann comment on other aspects of 2014 margins.
So just to confirm as John said yes we feel pretty strongly about sort of the back half of the year.
And clearly the exit rate in and around that 15% as we said which means obviously if we work backwards from the first quarter again we'll see some sequential improvement in the second quarter.
But we won't quite get to those margins until we've seen the back half of the year.
So understand the sequential improvement that we're seeing a little early yet.
I mean as you've heard we've got -- Egina has been delayed.
We'll see some shifting obviously from revenues and margins from '13 to '14.
But that back half of the year we feel pretty confident in delivering and clearly should be the exit rate that we are able to achieve for '14.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
Well it's helpful color.
I appreciate the thoughts.
Maybe I'll switch gears.
We haven't talked about the U.S.
market very much yet.
But perhaps you can give us a little bit more of a sense on the progression within fluid control.
In a sense perhaps how much of your customers may still be in the process of working through some inventories or do you feel that process is complete at this point? I think I have heard that but I want to make sure that it is and then in a sense what your outlook is for the next couple of quarters with respect to volume on the fluid control side and then also on the frac rental side? Brad I'll give you some high-level remarks and then let Bob Potter talk more specific about what we're hearing from the customers.
The -- we have confidence -- as we said in our remarks we have confidence that the rig count will improve later in the year and we will see that in our surface wellhead business and we'll see it in the consumables of fluid control.
What we are not seeing and what we don't anticipate seeing throughout the entire year is the capital expansion spending for fluid control.
And you'll recall during the peak of the pressure pumping business that percentage of capital orders that we received in fluid control was as much as 75% of our total.
We don't see that happening.
It's not happening now and we don't see that happening between now and the end of the year.
So that recovery we won't see but we will see an improvement in the consumable portion that follows rig count.
But I'll let Bob talk more about what we're hearing from customers and maybe when we anticipate that capital spending will happen.
Yes more directly to your question though the what we call cannibalization of their existing assets is really coming to a close.
A lot of factors including the return to 24-hour frac-ing more stages that we're seeing more frac intensity some of those things that are material impacts on the longevity of the equipment are happening.
And so I think your question was specifically around "Is the cannibalization of assets coming to a close?" We think so.
We think most of the major service companies have stripped their equipment the idle equipment down to the chassis.
So we should see an improvement in the second half of the year as a result of that along with what John talked about in terms of increased well count driven by the rig count improvements that we anticipate.
Now capital spending.
I really don't think we're going to see much impact of capital spending are increasing the amount of hydraulic horsepower probably until 2014.
Don't expect it this year.
Our next question comes from Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Really 2 follow-up questions.
The first and I'm not sure how much you want to comment on this but on Egina how do we -- how should we think about that and the impact on margins given the size of the project and some of the historical issues we've seen? How do you protect yourself there? Well first of all the Total Egina project is in Nigeria.
We've been successful on our Nigeria projects reference Chevron Agbami where we did the highest level of local content.
It was a successful project for us.
So we've been prepared for the Egina project in Nigeria so we feel -- I mean there's always risk in any major projects certainly in West Africa.
But we feel very prepared to manage Egina well.
As you know we had -- we look at Egina as a project very similar to Total's Pazflor project which was delivered on time and very successful.
And this thing the Egina looks very much like that.
We've had a really good head start in terms of getting prepared to launch this project well.
And then again as I said our experience in Nigeria is going to be helpful in terms of executing the project.
Now where are we in terms of pricing? The Egina project was bid over 1.5 years ago.
And although it didn't reflect -- the bid prices didn't reflect the trough of the market we were in they also didn't reflect the peak of our market that we expect.
We were in transition with regard to cycles and the pricing.
The Egina pricing reflects that better than the trough but not as high as the peak because the other suppliers were bidding and hadn't filled up their backlog.
I would characterize the Egina margins as similar and reflecting the improving margins that I described in our backlog as a whole.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now that's helpful.
And then as a follow-up on the Surface side this will be your first sort of transitional first quarter to second quarter with the Pure acquisition involved.
Maryann can you give us some sense for how we should think about the incremental margin impact from that in Canada? Yes.
Clearly our second quarter will be the weakest quarter in Surface.
We will see a fairly significant decline in the margins in the second quarter and then back half of the year recover.
On a full year basis given the forecast that we're seeing we ought to expect to see margins somewhere in the neighborhood that we have seen in the first quarter assuming volumes hold up.
But we will see that decline in Q2 which means back half will be stronger.
Our next question comes from Collin Gerry from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick one on working capital.
It seems that it was another drawn cash this quarter.
Could you give us maybe a little bit of color on the progression of working capital as we go through the year? Sure.
Our first quarter was -- it may be a little bit worse than what we had expected.
We've got a couple of projects as we talked about CLOV Laggan-Tormore that we are completing.
And as we see those complete a lot of that activity pushes a lot of the receivables through.
So we expect to see that come through in Q2.
The other offset that we'll be seeing in 2 and 3 will be advanced payments from some of these fairly significant awards.
So we are -- first quarter a little bit softer than we expected but improving.
We've got as I mentioned on the last call we've got some performance work that just efficiency that we're completing.
And actually this year one of the changes that we've made is all of our senior leadership will now have a performance metric associated with the working capital efficiency.
So we do expect to see continued improvement most of that Q3.
We will see some in Q2 but we're expecting a similar level.
I think I've mentioned them last time we spoke together as a group somewhere in the neighborhood of about 50% reduction.
Given the timing of some of these awards we may soften off of that but we are still expecting a significant reduction in that debt by strong cash flows that we're expecting.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And so the petition about the performance metrics in terms of management.
And if we think about the last 3 years as it has been a growing market working capital has been a drawn cash.
I mean we are still very much in a growing market as you've outlined.
I mean as we think about the next 2 years I mean we should still see that'd be a net drawn cash I think.
Or does it actually reverse? Yes.
This year we obviously will reverse because we had some struggles.
But as we go forward and that volume increases working capital will of course just based on that volume associated with that grow.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then just to beat the dead horse on the margin conversation a little bit.
Quick follow-up question within all the projects you have within your backlog obviously to what degree each project contributes to revenue affects the mix and that ultimately gives us our margin? I'm curious what is the range of that margin? In your backlog if we did 9% this quarter is it somewhere between 7% and 11% range? Or is it much wider than that in 2 and 20 between all the various projects that we're working on? Yes.
In terms of the margins in the backlog one way to think about this as you look at it going forward when we typically think about a project being roughly a 3-year cycle obviously some are longer and some are shorter.
But in the early stages of a project we typically get about 10% of revenue.
In the second year we'll probably get about 50% and in the third year the remaining.
So as you think about the last couple of years coming off of '08 and '09 and then the inbound that we are receiving a lot of the backlog that we are flushing through this year if you will or we are recognizing this year comes from sort of that '08 '09.
So we have some lower-margin projects in that backlog being offset by projects that as John has mentioned as we see pricing improved.
So there is a reasonable range in the margins in the backlog as you can see from the variabilities as we recognize revenue in the last couple of quarters.
Collin maybe at the risk of stating the obvious.
When we have a problem project and we've had some.
We've talked about them last year.
The range of margins between a problem project where we're having execution issues and our average in backlog is quite broad I mean it's a big range.
Absent an execution issue the ranges in our margins is fairly modest.
So it really depends.
If we have execution issues the range can be pretty broad than what the margins are.
As we improve execution the range will narrow and it's much more modest.
They're obviously not all the same but it's -- the big difference in range of margins in our backlog has to do with execution issues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's kind of what I was asking so that's very helpful color.
Our next question comes from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> John on subsea I was curious now that you're a quarter in and you've been greenlighted here on Egina.
Can you give us a sense if at all what kind of expectation maybe that you have as far as total orders this year in subsea? Are you able to quantify that other than just saying "We expect a record at this point?" Right.
Well we had a record number of inbound orders last year at $4.6 billion and I said in the last quarter I thought we could meet or exceed that.
Hitting $1.2 billion in inbound relatively a small portion of that was BP is a good sign adding Egina on top of it which there's been estimates around that number certainly helps us on our way to meeting or exceeding the inbound -- the record inbound that we received last year.
Now where will that come from? The small orders remember the $1.2 billion that we received this year was really absent any mega order and that's kind of been a trend coming from our partners I mentioned that in my early remarks.
And we expect that to continue.
To be significantly higher than last year's inbound we will need to capture a couple of good-sized projects.
And they're out there and we're bidding them.
They're well into the tendering process but we'll have to be successful and they'll have to stay in 2013 and not to shift to 2014.
The service revenue is expected to grow.
That will contribute.
So I would say we are on pace to exceed the inbound number last year given the strong inbound and obviously the Egina award.
How much further over? We've got to get a little closer to these big projects because we'll have to win a couple of big projects to go well over the $4.6 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And given your earlier comments on Mad Dog I mean my understanding was if that was going to be awarded to you in several tranches I'm assuming we should just -- whatever expectations we have for that this year and next that should just go ahead and be essentially taken out of our numbers at this point.
Is that fair? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other question is just on the subsea services side.
I know you've talked about a significant improvement revenue over the coming years that you anticipate in that business for you.
I guess one just can you talk on the well intervention side? At what point maybe do we see start making some incremental investments in terms of new capacity there to meet that goal? And two you had the downtime on the 1 unit this quarter.
The 2 remaining should we anticipate any kind of maintenance or commissioning inspection work that takes place on those vessels here over the balance of the year? Well let me take the last question first.
This was the plan of maintenance and recertification.
So just to be clear this wasn't downtime.
It happens every 5 years by requirement.
We don't have -- The first unit that got recertified was built well ahead of the other 2 units that we have in service.
So they're not planned for recertification this year or next year.
With regard to the other part of your question additional investments in service to support the anticipated revenue growth.
Our fourth stack is in design and manufacturing as we speak.
So we're already initiating additional investment to support future service revenue and that will be available on the market next year.
The investments beyond that we want to -- it's based on customer demand and we want to wait until we have a lot of confidence that once that -- the new stacks get built that they'll have long-term contracts.
And I would envision that we'd make some of those decisions later this year as the market develops as we anticipate.
I might remind you also that our joint venture with Chouest is going well.
We're getting a lot of confirmation from our customers of this package.
And particularly in the Gulf of Mexico a vessel in our intervention technology is being a good package that the industry really wants.
So I think we'll get -- that will support the idea of operators being willing to sign up for longer-term contracts and support future investments in intervention stacks.
Research Division</strong> John does that force the unit ultimately go into the North Sea as well? Or do we start seeing this service expand into other geo markets? Actually we're building the units so they can operate outside of the North Sea.
So it really targets -- it will be the first deepwater intervention stack that we're developing and it's really targeted for the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
So to be specific we don't anticipate it being used in the North Sea.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> John we've seen Petrobras award some sub tree orders to competitors.
FMC won the subsea manifolds or with a handful of subsea manifolds.
Does this have any implication for the call-off work on the subsea tree contracts signed last year with Petrobras? Well we don't think so.
The largest Petrobras pre-salt order was won by us almost 2 years ago.
And following that it took a while -- I'm sorry it was about 1.5 years ago.
Following that we anticipated that more call-offs and awards will be given to other suppliers.
That's happened.
The remaining call-off with Petrobras all indications are that they would proceed with that.
So now it doesn't -- this was all -- this was exactly what we expected and it's unfolding pretty much like we hoped to.
And I think these awards what's maybe we should be talking about is the significance of these awards.
There was a time not too long ago where people were concerned about Petrobras' cash flow new purchasing rules which was going to pace the awards for pre-salt equipment and that's not happening.
I think Petrobras recognizes the criticality of having this hardware available as they develop their pre-salt discoveries and they're getting the stuff on order.
And not only was that evidenced in the quarter by additional tree awards but it was evidenced by the first pre-salt manifold award which we want.
So I think it's really just the opposite that Petrobras has come to a conclusion.
They need to have the hardware so it's not a -- it stays off a critical path through developing pre-salt.
So we're anticipating that Petrobras will award the remaining call-offs on our original record Petrobras contract.
Research Division</strong> And it definitely sounds encouraging.
Is it reasonable for us to have those in our 2013 order estimates? I think so.
It's Petrobras so there's -- the things don't always happen exactly like your original plan and schedule but we're targeting for those call-offs to happen this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more Petrobras question.
I guess in the past they've talked about over 70 wells in the Marlim field that might be potential targets for subsea separation technology.
Is that still kind of the order of magnitude that we're thinking about the Marlim subsea separation opportunity? Yes nothing has changed with regard to the potential.
I think the big -- now that the system is operational and Petrobras has a chance to really assess the pilot system that's when we're going to see Petrobras do the analysis of how much could they apply this to Santos and Campos Basins.
So I think that's all.
I have -- you're absolutely correct.
Nothing has changed with regard to the potential of the Marlim system.
Our next question comes from Robin Shoemaker from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the -- you said the total number of tree awards in the first quarter was something like 238.
And so your awards are considerably below your historical market share.
And I know you look at this on a yearly or a rolling 3-year basis.
But I just wonder if you believe that the market share that you've had historically which you show as 40% plus on the tree market is what we should expect going forward? Or has the competitive landscape changed more from let's say the last 5 years? Right.
Robin no.
We historically have had high-30s low-40% market share as the market leader and that is -- we believe that's sustainable because half of our inbound comes from our partners.
So we don't see any change in our target of remaining the market leader with high-30s low-40% market share.
What you saw in the first quarter were 238 trees being awarded.
Of the 238 trees 140 of them were for pre-salt trees for Petrobras.
You can't if you look at a point -- and we didn't win any trees for Petrobras.
That's because we had won the trees 1.5 years earlier with the first pre-salt award.
So I think you're correct.
And when we look at that market share we need to look over multiple years because of the lumpiness in the industry.
But let's go ahead and take the 140 trees out of the 238.
And for FMC without a major award we had 25% to 30% market share.
So that says that we're on track for holding our 30% to 40% market share going forward and that's our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
So just related to that then you mentioned there's some bigger projects coming up later in the year.
And those will have some timing issues involved.
The customer need to buy a certain date.
And you know kind of how full your backlog is and how full your competitors are.
I'm sure you have a good estimate of that.
And so in terms of what's coming later this year in terms of big projects do you think you're well positioned versus what your competition is able to execute and bid on in terms of some of these bigger projects that require a lot of take up of capacity? Well I don't want to comment on what our suppliers have done.
They're prepared for the market growth but I would -- let's just look at the facts.
We had -- we are on pace to have 2 back-to-back growth years in subsea.
If you just use trees as a proxy we went for 3 years with an average of 300 trees awarded each year.
Last year it grew to 414 a 33% increase in tree awards.
This year we're on track to having the 20% to 30% growth.
So anyone in the industry needed to be preparing for a back-to-back 2 years of 20% or 30% growth which is substantial.
Most of the suppliers including ourselves wouldn't have had that much capacity or demonstrated capacity available to handle that.
What we've been doing for the last almost 3 years is preparing for that growth.
And we've talked about that in earlier calls whether it's the capital additions to expand our physical facilities which have been almost double what we spent in previous years.
It was all designed to prepare us for these 2 back-to-back growth years in subsea.
We've added substantial headcount because we believe the experienced technical resources the industry's biggest constraint and we've been aggressive in adding heads in 2011 and 2012 to some extent to the detriment of our P&amp;L as we brought this new talent onboard and began their training and development.
So we feel very confident that we have prepared ourselves for these 2 extraordinary years of growth and we'll be able therefore to hold our market share despite the rapid growth in the industry.
The other suppliers I can't speak to but for someone to be successful in executing in this rapidly growing market over these last 2 years needed to be making the investments several years ago in order to execute at this higher level.
Our last question comes from Ryan Fitzgibbon from Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maryann can you comment as to what planned R&amp;D spending is for 2013? Yes.
Actually we haven't really provided an overall R&amp;D spending number.
When we talk about R&amp;D spending just to be clear we use that in a broader term to talk about development costs et cetera.
So if you were to look at the R&amp;D line as we say our development costs appear in other phases in projects.
For example they appear in period costs et cetera.
So the R&amp;D line is not the only place where we incur costs associated with the advancement of our technologies.
But we haven't provided a full year forecast for what we would consider R&amp;D spending.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the decision to accelerate that spending in Q1.
Is it safe to assume that it's in advance of a project that you're expecting to win or what was the rationale for that? Yes.
So all of the technology as John mentioned earlier the technology that we need really to bid the 2 projects -- 15/06 was one of those projects that we -- that John spoke about we have in-house.
This is really for the development of next-generation technologies.
So with the work that we talked about accelerating was really for future opportunities.
We have what we need to the projects that we are currently bidding.
That's helpful.
And then second question for me.
In terms of Egina I understand you can't disclose a whole lot but is there any reason why it would not come in at the full 43 expectation that was outlined previously.
You're right.
We can't give that information.
But in the West African National Oil Company project they tend not to do call-offs or bids because they need the full approval from the government.
So unlike the Gulf of Mexico like Mad Dog for example where there's no national oil company they'll call it off in bits as they need it.
That's not the practice in West Africa because they want -- they put everything into the project and go to the national oil company and get approval at one time.
Also the pattern has been that at least for the entire first phase everything gets announced and awarded at one time.
I'll now turn the call back to Mr.
Brad Alexander for closing remarks.
This concludes our first quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our second quarter 2013 conference call on July 24 at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
John you may end the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 FMC Technologies Inc.
Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Alexander.
You may begin.
Thank you Vanessa.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our second quarter 2013 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our President.
I'll discuss highlights from the quarter Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Earnings were $0.44 per diluted share for the quarter.
Total company quarterly revenue was $1.7 billion and operating profit was $199 million.
Subsea Technologies inbounded $2.6 billion of awards in the quarter which included 117 subsea trees.
Segment backlog now stands at $5.9 billion.
Revenue for the quarter in Subsea Technologies was $1.1 billion an increase of 19% over the prior year quarter.
Our subsea margins improved sequentially as the contribution from our higher-margin subsea service work improved from the first quarter.
However the margin improvement was less than anticipated as we incurred some absorption costs associated with slower-than-expected project progression and project award delays.
So while our margins improved sequentially we had expected to see better performance in the quarter.
As we enter the back half of the year our mix of projects is improving and we continue to expect significant margin expansion in the next 2 quarters.
We received two large project awards during the quarter.
The Egina award from Total for $1.2 billion includes 44 subsea trees and associated manifolds control systems and tooling.
This important Nigerian project is one we are well prepared to successfully execute.
We were also awarded the second call off related to last year's pre-salt tree award from Petrobras.
This $0.5 billion awarded includes 49 pre-salt trees that we will deliver in 2016 and 2017.
In addition to these 2 large awards we received multiple orders from operators in the Gulf of Mexico.
This markets is continuing to show the strength we have expected and much of the future activity in this region will come from our alliance partners.
We continue to be encouraged by the Petrobras Marlim subsea separation system.
It is continuing to perform very well and Petrobras is currently assessing and analyzing how to apply the Marlim technology to this and other fields.
Turning now to our Surface Technologies segment.
Surface Technologies delivered favorable quarterly volume and margin results.
Surface Technologies revenue was up from the first quarter as fluid control and surface wellhead activity more than offset the expected slowdown of completion services activity related to Canadian breakup.
U.S.
rig count was flat in the quarter and going forward we do not expect rig count increases in the second half of the year.
However with increased drilling efficiencies being recognized and the recovery of the Canadian activity we should see improved results in the back half of the year.
International surface wellhead revenue was strong during the quarter as activity increased sequentially in both the Middle East and Europe.
We continue to perform well in both of these important markets.
Energy infrastructure results were improved on sequential growth in both our measurement solutions and loading systems businesses.
Looking forward we recorded record subsea awards in the second quarter and are confident we will exceed $5 billion of orders for the year.
Our margins in subsea backlog continued to improve and we expect this to translate to stronger subsea margins in the second half of the year and into 2014.
International surface wellhead activity remains strong and U.S.
land activity appears to have stabilized.
Our margins trough in the second quarter and we expect improved results in Surface Technologies in the coming quarters.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks John.
Subsea Technologies operating profit was $123 million in the quarter with a margin of 11%.
Sequentially our EBIT margins improved.
As John mentioned we have some projects that have been progressing slower than we originally forecast.
This is the result of differences in our customers' schedules.
We have also experienced some suspension and postponement on projects.
These project delays have given rise to under-absorbed cost in the quarter and impacted our short-term results.
We have structured our organization to be able to support and deliver a higher level of projects by adding the required project support staff.
Given the anticipated shift and the timing of these projects we are taking actions to more appropriately align our cost structure to the project requirements.
Consistent with our previous forecast EBIT margins in the second half of 2013 will improve sequentially now supported by these additional actions.
We expect our full year subsea margins in a range of 12% to 13%.
We remain confident in our ability to execute our record backlog and achieve the margin improvement heading into 2014 as margin and backlog improves and our structure is optimized to deliver these projects.
Our Subsea Technologies backlog stands at a record $5.9 billion.
It was negatively impacted by approximately $200 million of foreign exchange translation in the quarter.
Moving to our Surface Technologies results.
Surface Technologies operating profit for the second quarter was $57 million a 32% decrease from the prior year quarter but flat sequentially.
In the second quarter we saw the decline of completion services activity related to Canadian breakup.
This was offset by continued strength in our international surface wellhead business and better-than-expected segment activity in the U.S.
International surface wellhead orders were strong in the quarter and we expect the results in the second half of the year to improve.
Fluid control profit improved sequentially as pressure pumping activity is stabilizing.
Segment margins in the quarter were 13%.
The sequential decline was consistent with our expectation of margins troughing in the second quarter but was better than anticipated mainly given the strength of the international surface wellhead business.
In the back half of the year we expect overall Surface Technologies sales volume to increase and margins to improve.
We continue to see strength in international activity and are more confident in the U.S.
markets.
Orders for Surface Technologies for the quarter were $501 million as a result of continued strength in the international surface wellhead business and sequential growth in fluid control orders.
Segment backlog stands at $582 million with the year-over-year increase coming from the growth in international surface wellhead.
Moving to energy infrastructure.
Energy infrastructure operating profit for the second quarter was $19 million with a margin of 11.8%.
Strong results in both measurement solutions and loading systems drove segment results to more favorable levels.
We expect full year margins to approach 11%.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $12.5 million.
We expect this to average between $12 million and $13 million per quarter for the remaining of 2013.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $31.5 million.
This includes $9 million related to the MPM earn-out as a result of the business' exceeding performance expectations for 2013.
Absent foreign exchange fluctuations and any further MPM earn-out adjustments that may be necessary we expect other expense net to average approximately $20 million per quarter in the second half of 2013.
Our second quarter tax rate was 28.2%.
We anticipate our 2013 tax rate to be between 26% and 27% for the full year subject to fluctuations in our earnings mix.
Capital spending this quarter was $78 million primarily directed towards Subsea Technologies expansion initiatives.
A payment of $57 million was made during the quarter for the 2012 MPM earn-out obligation.
Capital spending in 2013 is forecasted approximately $400 million.
At the end of the second quarter we had net debt of $1.3 billion comprised of $268 million of cash and $1.5 billion of debt.
We averaged 239.3 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter and we repurchased 404 000 shares of stock during the second quarter at an average cost of $54.45 per share.
So in summary 2013 will be a record year for subsea awards.
Subsea Technologies margins are expected to improve sequentially in the next 2 quarters averaging 12% to 13% for the full year.
Margins for Surface Technologies were better than expected as international markets continue to perform well and the U.S.
market is stabilizing.
Surface Technology margins have troughed and with the expected strengthening in U.S.
activity we will deliver stronger margins in the back half of the year.
As a result we are raising the lower end of our full year earnings guidance to the range of $2.10 to $2.25 per share as our overall subsea performance continues to improve and the North America surface market strengthens in the second half of the year.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first call comes from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just John if you could frame the back half of the year in terms of how you think about the subsea margin progression? Obviously you're now saying 12% to 13% but just in the context of the actions you're taking to rightsize the cost structure just trying to think about the progression as we think about Q3 and Q4.
And then also thinking about of your existing subsea backlog how should we think about how much of that kind of flows through the revenue line in the back half of the year? Byron to talk about the cost adjustments and that's really the disappointment I referenced regarding the second quarter subsea margins as Maryann explained.
Because of the project delays we had a project -- we had a cost structure that was designed in place to deal with those projects.
As they were delayed we need to make some adjustments.
We're implementing that now and that'll get us back to the margins that we would have originally anticipated in the second quarter.
But the real drivers for the back half margin improvement come from project mix flowing through the backlog.
As you know the problematic projects of ours like LLOG [indiscernible] are clearing out of the backlog and are being replaced by high margin.
That's the big driver in the second half margin improvement.
But we've also mentioned the higher -- or the increase in higher-margin subsea service revenue and that's being driven by our Light Well Intervention stacks being fully operational in the second half plus higher demand for refurbishment equipment.
And so that increase in higher-margin business will be a pretty important contributor to the higher margin in the back half.
And then finally the lower R&amp;D spending that we called out in the last quarter where we had accelerated that will contribute to the margin improvement.
So there's really 4 things: project mix going through the P&amp;L increase in higher-margin service lower R&amp;D and then some cost adjustments to align with the new schedules from these project delays will all contribute and really gives us confidence in the second half margins being what we've projected.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second question for me on the surface business.
The tone around the North America business sounds a little more constructive than a quarter ago.
And so just wondering if you could speak through within that segment which of the businesses are on the margin are giving you that what I sense to be an increased sense of confidence about the back half from a visibility point of view? Right.
So the first thing to point out is that we think our North America Surface Technologies business has stabilized.
That's important obviously.
And the second half improvement comes from the Canadian improvement which the Canadian breakup was more pronounced than delayed so that clearly improves in the second half.
And then there is potential for some U.S.
improvement in the second half and that all contributes to potential for increase in Surface Technologies contribution in the second half of the year.
But the driver in the second quarter was really the strength of our international surface wellhead business which continues to be very strong.
I'll ask Bob Potter to make some additional comments on this potential strength in Surface Technologies both in the second quarter and going into second half.
Yes.
Just to add to what John said about Canada in the U.S.
we do -- while we're forecasting rig count to be essentially flat through the remainder of the year we do see activity increase beginning to develop just based on drilling efficiencies frac intensity more pad drilling so more wells per rig and that certainly will help drive our repair and replacement business and fluid control and our frac rental assets and our surface wellhead business.
And our next question comes from Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Maybe the first question actually I would appreciate a little bit more color on Egina.
I supposed in the context of it it's a very nicely high dollar value per tree and I'm wondering if that tells us that it's setting the stage for future phases how much of it is a function of Nigeria? Just maybe some more color on the significant size of that project.
Brad typically in the West Africa project where you're going to a national oil company and you're dealing with the procurement production and contract practices it's not uncommon to define the entire system because you only want to go through that process with the national oil companies once.
So you tend not to have call offs you tend not to break it up in the bits you tend to put the entire system out there as a tender and then go through the production-sharing contract system.
And I think that's why you typically see in West Africa such large projects because it includes everything.
And when they go to a next phase it's not sort of a call-off type situation it's going to be a major project to go to a next phase.
So Egina was big because everything was in handle that system because you only want to go through that process once with the national oil companies.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
I'm not sure if this is ever -- forgive me if you've already outlined this in maybe your initial release and I'm just forgetting it but what is the timing of revenue realization on Egina? Well of course that changed a little bit because of the delays.
We did this project almost two years ago.
We had originally thought we booked the inbound late 2012 then early 2013 and now it's mid-2013 so everything has pushed to the right.
We'll start recognizing revenue a very little bit this year because it's mostly just the beginning engineering.
We'll probably get I'm sort of guessing here about but 25% to 30% maybe in 2014.
And then it starts billing 2015 we'd probably be 2/3 of the way through the project.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Was this the project -- can I ask if this was the project that pushed to the right that hurt the -- then in terms of the cost structure you had put in place? Is that what -- this is the most important reference to that? Yes Brad.
But it was one of several.
Mad dog was another one and there were a few others that contributed.
But true this was one of several that we referenced as being delayed.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
If I hide and call those all one question maybe just a follow-up.
As it relates to your 2014 subsea margin thought process then would be helpful.
I mean it sounds like the dynamics are more or less consistent with what you thought they were last quarter.
Do some of the -- whether it is the weight of this Egina project specifically and some of the margins you might book early on in that process? Or is there any reason to think about 2014 as being closer to a 12% to 13% average margin versus being something higher how do we think about '14 subsea margins please? Right.
We've been saying that we thought margins in 2014 would be in the mid-teens and we still believe that that is the case.
Obviously we're going to exit 2013 at higher margins.
Fourth quarter are going to be typically our higher-margin.
First quarter they're lower.
So I think we're very confident that the 2014 margins will continue to be in the mid-teens.
And our next question comes from David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could expand -- as we're looking kind of growing order book obviously comes expansion cost from headcount additions and a build out of supply channel I was just wondering John if you could kind of talk about kind of where you think you are and -- what any degree we are in terms of these additional costs getting absorbed? Well David I think our strategy has been to prepare for the subsea growth and make investments not only in capital but also in people.
And we believe the market's materializing exactly like we thought it would and we think we're very well prepared to execute well in growing much larger market.
What we saw in Q2 was some delays.
We had built and sized the organization to execute those projects.
They were then delayed.
And so we took some actions on some of the product -- project support staff.
I wouldn't say its real significant but they're important actions for us to take to make sure that our capacity is aligned with the timing of the growth in subsea and that's exactly what we've implemented.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you don't really see it's kind of a catch-up period.
You -- I mean I think we did see that last year.
You kind of feel like we're -- you're pretty close to where you want to be is that kind of what I should take from your comments? That's exactly right.
We had significant headcount additions in 2012 -- 2011 and 2012.
We projected in 2013 those additions were adequate for the load that we saw and then it would taper off in 2000.
The reason David that we added that talent so early is because we're very focused on the technical talent which we believe is going to be the constraints in the industry.
And this is talent that needs one two three years of development before they are really in a position to be put on these project teams.
So that's why we add them so early that's why we took some of the additional absorption costs if you will of this very new and efficient talent.
But that starts to go away in 2013 as they get down their learning curve and we start applying with these projects that are now materializing.
Research Division</strong> A more general question for you John.
If I look back in last cycle FMC posted better than 20% return on capital for it looks like seven years in a row.
You averaged around 30% returns at that time.
Your business mix has changed a bit over the years and I know pricing isn't where you want it to be yet on the subsea side.
I just have two questions.
Here's the one.
Do you think your return to capital back up to that 30% level over the next several years? And I guess the second question is is this how you're looking at the business? I mean does this really kind of factor into your thinking as you think about the business over the next several years? Absolutely.
When we think of our company we define that it's a high return a high growth company and those -- that's always in the forefront for us and we're confident that we can return the business to the high teens.
But remember we're coming out of a down cycle.
And as the margins improve as I described in 2014 we'll start to get back to the profit levels we experienced during the last peak and the unique nature of subsea allows us to run a very efficient balance sheet.
There's nothing on the horizon that suggest that won't be the case going forward and we will in fact return to some of those high return numbers that you referenced.
And our next question comes from Jim Wicklund with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> John it's Jonathan Sisto.
Jim had to step to a funeral today excuse us.
Oh Sorry sorry to hear that.
Research Division</strong> All good.
If I could steer you back to the beginning of the call you mentioned Marlim and kind of by my count it's been producing to the top side for three months now pretty successfully.
Has your level of confidence go -- gone up over that time frame that you'll expect more orders in the back half of the year from them potentially? Well Jonathan I don't -- with regard to order expectation I'm not -- this is Petrobras.
There's a lot of steps they have to go to.
No I don't expect orders in the back half this year.
But Jonathan I was in Brazil about ten days ago and had a chance to meet with Petrobras people that were directly involved in Marlim and I was very encouraged.
They are careful which I completely appreciate but they share with me that the Marlim system is operating extremely well even exceeding some of their expectations.
And I was particularly pleased and I mentioned this in my comments I was particularly pleased that they're now moving on to the next phase the assessment and analysis phase which suggests to me that they are now confident that the technology that was piloted on Marlim is -- it works to their expectations and they're now going to that next step in figuring out now that we can trust the technology how do we apply it for the Marlim field and other fields in the campus base.
How long will that assessment will take? I don't know.
I do know that this is a very very important technology for Petrobras.
And you've heard Formigli and other executives of Petrobras publicly talk about the importance of processing technology to unlock that really trapped hydrocarbons that they believe they can extract in these aging fields in the Campos Basin.
So if it's that important to Petrobras they're going to move as quickly as they can through this assessment and analysis phase so they can start getting on with really the commercialization of this new technology and increasing production of the Campos field.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And just if I could John it was good to hear your confidence about the back half of the year I will say.
As far as an allocation of capital are you still reiterating $400 million in CapEx this year? As we think about '14 should that -- will that trail down? Will that go down in so much that you've made the investments in people supply chain? Is that how we should think about it as we model the company going forward? I don't expect it going down.
I mean we have a practice of adding capacity ahead of demand.
The demand as I described for the subsea industry is every bit if not stronger than what we anticipated so we're going to continue our practice of adding capacity ahead of demand.
I think most of our big capital additions to address capacity have been defined but now it's in the implementation stage.
So some of the capital will be -- actually it'll be spent in 2014 particularly in the aftermarket subsea services side.
I think you know that that's an important part of our growth strategy.
We need to have the facilities and some of the specialized tools that supports subsea services so that's going to be ongoing in 2014.
But I think the decisions on physical capacity to support the subsea production systems that's all largely been defined and is in motion.
Some of that spending will slip into 2014 and then you add the subsea services investments on top of that I would imagine 2014 would look similar maybe a little bit less than what we incurred in 2013.
And our next question comes from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> John I was hoping you could spend a moment just talking about the subsea order outlook here.
I know you've been very successful in terms of the magnitude of the nameplate awards in the first half of the year and frankly last year as well.
I think some look at perhaps the rate of orders slowing here as we go through the back half of '13 and maybe in the early '14.
But it still appears to me there's a lot of meaningful name play awards out there to be led.
It's just not as clear-cut perhaps that FTI is the front runner on some of these that are pending.
Can you just update us on the projects you like your chances on most from here? And then I have a related follow-up I guess after you answer that.
Well Bill let's look at where we are in the first half of the year.
405 subsea trees awarded for the industry in the first half that's extraordinary.
Sure it was driven by the largest subsea award in the industry's history Egina but also on top of that you had pre-salt.
So anytime that you have the largest subsea award landing in the quarter plus pre-salt you're going to have a record or peak quarters.
So no question the back half of the year can't compete with that and it will drop off.
The other reason I'd be a little bit cautious about the back half of the year is we start getting projects towards the end of the year in the fourth quarter.
If they slip they now move out of '14 into '13.
So as I look at 2013 it seems like the industry is on track for 500-plus trees to be awarded for the industry.
I'd be -- again some of the bigger projects maybe in West Africa they're still pending might slip into 2014.
But I'm pretty confident that 2013 will see a record for the industry.
Now for FMC we're at -- with the $2.6 billion in the second quarter and $1.2 billion in the first quarter we're almost at $4 billion.
As I said in my remarks we should easily exceed $5 billion for subsea inbound for the year.
What could take it even higher? Well it depends on whether the projects if they really land in 2014 and down to -- or 2013 and down to lay into 2014.
So that will be the difference in our own inbound.
There are certainly opportunities for us going forward for the balance of this year.
We had targeted the Tullow 10% project in Ghana because of our previous work in Ghana.
Petrobras was a big quarter for us with Petrobras last year but -- last quarter but they still have manifold projects to be awarded.
We would expect those to be awarded this year.
And then some other projects in the North Sea that could be awarded in the Gulf of Mexico as I made -- as I alluded to in my remarks is very strong and that's where our market position is the strongest.
So I think all that bodes well for us to having a strong finish.
I just want to be a little careful on some of these projects at the end of 2013 that they don't delay in 2014.
But let me talk a little bit about in general about the outlook beyond 2013.
When you look at 2014 we won't have the benefit of pre-salt trees.
If you take pre-salt trees out of 2012 out of 2013 out of 2014 and look at non-pre-salt activity in the industry every year shows significant increase and I think that'll be the case in 2014 that will -- there are some -- as you pointed out I think some big nameplate project.
Total's Block 32 project If that happens in 2014 it could be the record subsea award in the industry that'll help 2014 to be strong.
But if we just look at the geographies Bill it also supports more strength in 2014.
We'll start with Brazil.
Now a lot of Brazil has already been awarded but we were very encouraged that Petrobras is awarding really further original plan.
There was some talk a year ago that maybe they would adjust their plan.
That didn't happen.
The tree awards the potential manifold awards are all further original plans.
So Petrobras remains as strong as we originally anticipated.
In Africa Nigeria had been dormant for almost three years.
Now we've had two projects major projects awarded this year.
There's more projects behind that possibly in 2014 or '15.
Angola is as strong.
I mentioned Block 32 but there's opportunities for BP there's opportunities for Chevron Eni and Total that will keep Angola strong.
And then new markets.
I mentioned Tullow 10 in Ghana.
There's other projects in Ghana.
And then Anadarko will start awarding equipment for [indiscernible] and Mozambique in 2014.
So Africa 2014 will be -- has the potential to be as strong as its ever been in its history.
The North Sea particularly the U.K.
sector the North Sea which hasn't been too active.
Chevron made an announcement yesterday regarding U.K.
sector in North Sea they were proceeding with major projects and there's future projects possibly still in 2013 but 2014 that would occur.
And the Norwegian sector of the North Sea remains active.
And then I alluded to Gulf of Mexico.
The Gulf of Mexico activity now exceeds that of pre-Macondo levels.
And with the development of the lower tertiary by companies like Shell BP Chevron Anadarko LLOG Hess Noble and Exxon all drive Gulf of Mexico in 2014 probably to record level.
So you put all that altogether and I think it bodes well for a very strong 2014.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that overview.
John my follow-up here would just be you've talked about the importance of establishing commerciality on your new pump for boosting.
I thought perhaps if you could give us an update on that.
I know Eni 15/06 has a boosting component.
I think it's an award you'd like to win.
Just any thoughts there on cordiality or just specific projects related to boosting please? Right.
Following the successful qualification of our multiphase pump the next step was to get in the water.
We were qualified on two boosting tenders for this year which we participated in and we're still hopeful that one of those tenders will be successful in getting the water.
But Bill there are many projects in 2014 and beyond that require multiphase pumping that will also be qualified to participate in.
So I think it's right in front of us around the corner.
The market you can appreciate the market is very supportive of getting another helico-axial multiphase pump in the market.
So it's really just a matter of time.
And our next question comes from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the second quarter the subsea delays that you had that impacted the quarter and the cost issue you mentioned both suspensions on projects and a shift in timing.
Is that customer-driven changes or delay suspension? Absolutely.
The Total Egina that I referenced that was all customer-driven.
BP Mad Dog was customer-driven.
So yes they're all customer-driven.
They're not a result of us delaying our -- anything on our side.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then going into the margins for subsea in the second half how much risk do you think there is to that forecast based on what you see today and bringing down your cost? Well I -- there's always risk in margin.
I think the biggest risk for the company is execution risk.
We don't -- there's nothing that stands out as an execution risk but the company is very focused on executing well and making sure we hit our deliveries.
But to be more specific I'll let Maryann comment to be more specific the cost adjustments that we're making were well into those and I don't believe there's much risk because those are all within our control.
But I'll let Maryann make some comments about the adjustments we're making.
Angie so just a little bit more color on the third and the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned we are again looking at sequential improvement.
We'll make a step change in Q3 and then Q4 as John mentioned will clearly be our strongest quarter.
We had some knowns and those knowns have been consistent for us as we've been talking about margins throughout the year.
And I think John mentioned a bit clearly we see a stronger back half of the year in terms of our project mix.
That's coming from services as we see greater revenues as well as stronger performance the absence of the challenges we had in the first quarter and then just strengths coming from other capabilities that we have in our service organization.
And clearly a better mix flowing through as we complete our projects that are lower margin and begin to work through the newer margin projects.
Second again known as we talked about in the first quarter we accelerated R&amp;D spending so we will have the absence of that cost in the back half of the year and we can clearly see how that will happen.
So when we talked about these cost reductions what we're really talking about is really optimizing our organization now.
We put the technical talent.
If you look the headcount additions that we've made over the last couple of years you can see even from the last -- from the first quarter to the end of 2012 that headcount reduction is getting smaller.
We've been talking about the fact that our headcount growth rate will flow.
And so really what we're trying to do right now is look at the scheduling as best as we can see it and ensure that the support staff that we have is optimal for the project size that we have.
So nothing really changes in terms of our outlook for 2013 from the things that we've talked about and these cost reduction initiatives will only ensure our ability to deliver that back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then as a follow-up I mean I appreciate the color on Subsea margins for 2014 and the mid-teens John -- both of you do you see that mid-teens is your normalized margins for Subsea? And then when you think through surface for 2014 can you give us some color there? And where do you see normalized margins for the Surface business? And along with that can you get back to the high-teens margins without flow control coming back? Yes this is John.
I'll let Maryann also comment.
When we say mid-teens remember we're anticipating pricing improvement industry that we're just at the very beginning of seeing.
The subsea suppliers are starting to fill up their backlog.
Once they do that they'll start bidding a different levels we're starting to see less price intensity.
But to call anything above the mid-teens at this point when we haven't seen the real effects of what we believe will happen pricing improvement as a result of capacity filling up I think could be a mistake.
So right now I think we need to say until we see changes the backlog start to fill up even more and improves the pricing.
I think it's best to say with the mid-teens on Subsea.
I'll -- obviously what drives our Surface Technologies' margins is the return of fluid control and we're not really ready to call that.
We said that it's stabilized.
There's a potential for the consumables to improve in the second half of the year.
We don't -- as we've mentioned in the prepared remarks we don't see any potential for CapEx in 2013.
So margins moving up from what we see in the second half is going to require more CapEx and a higher contribution from fluid control which if and when it happens would be later in 2014.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> John just a quick comment on what you said about focusing more on the aftermarkets.
I mean modeling your company historically has been relatively straightforward.
It's been a function of subsea awards largely and deepwater well count.
But with the growth in your Light Well Intervention and even your heavy well intervention coupled with your renewed focus on subsea optimization production optimization could you talk a little bit about how your business mix is changing going forward and whether this is part of -- maybe start with that maybe just Brazil as an example given Brazil's kind of statement that they are focusing now on reducing technical downtime and also increased recovery? Right.
Ole as you know growing our subsea service business is important part of our strategy.
Starting with Light Well Intervention which you referenced we're now building our 4 stack signed a joint venture with Edison Chouest.
That seems to be going well.
The market reaction is very positive.
So our strategy to grow and expand the type of subsea services that we think the market requires and hasn't been provided in the past is being confirmed and validated by customers in the Gulf of Mexico certainly in the North Sea where we're active and also Petrobras and Brazil.
But it's -- as you've I think alluded to it's not one thing.
We expect our installation services to grow we expect our Light Well Intervention systems to grow.
As I said we're on the fourth system.
I'm sure it won't be long before we start developing a fifth system in response to market demand.
You mentioned production optimization.
This is a new technology that we've been successful with several customers and we expect that to expand beyond the North Sea.
You're right Brazil and Petrobras are very focused on some availability and system uptime and we're in discussions with them about the application of different kinds of subsea services including Light Well Intervention.
So it's all very positive.
It's starting to materialize.
I think the question is how fast will the industry adopt this and when will we start seeing the revenue mix start to change as subsea services grow.
But we fully expect it to change.
It's the timing and -- which is in our industry as you know it's always a question of how quickly the E&amp;P companies adopt some of these new capability and that's a little -- that's hard to project.
But there's no question that their interest is there and their validating I think our strategy and we're making the investments to be ready.
So the mix will change the timing is probably is what's a little bit uncertain at this point.
Research Division</strong> So when you talk about achieving some of these historic margins and returns on capital that will be with quite a different amount of capital deployed because your business used to be quite capital light and now you're deploying more capital in some of these capabilities becoming a little bit more capital heavy.
But do you still think that with that mix change you can still achieve the historic returns to capital? We believe we can because the subsea services create so much value that the margins will be substantially different than what we see on production equipment.
Although we don't have value on production equipment but there's a lot of pass-throughs which kind of suppress some of the margin.
But in subsea services our balance sheet will look different but the margins will also look very different and that's what gives us confidence that we can retain the high margin -- our higher return nature of our business.
Research Division</strong> So historically this was a very small percent of your business.
If you look at the back end of the decade or say far enough for you to be not to be held accountable for it what percentage are your subsea business you think can be this new businesses not tied to the subsea tree count? Right.
Right now our subsea service business is about 25% of our total and of course we would expect it to grow from there.
But Ole I'd remind you that not only are we growing subsea services we're growing in our subsea production system.
So that's going to grow as well particularly with subsea processing.
So it's hard to predict how much as a percent of our total will grow because the equipment side is also going to grow.
But right now it's a 25% and I'm sure [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> But including production optimization equipment as part of your new growth initiative? Right right.
And I was talking about subsea processing hardware which will expand the non-services part of our business.
But I think hard to predict.
I think you're right in assuming that it will grow but it's off of base now at 25%.
And our next question comes from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> John with regard to subsea orders appreciate the candor and also the realism with regard to second half in relation to the extraordinary inbound first half.
I'm just curious so with regard to some specificity if we can in terms of tightening the range a little bit here.
Do you think that the order outlook for second half of this year looks more like what we witnessed in the first quarter of this year? Or is it something closer to what we witnessed in the middle part of last year? So specifically $1.2 billion in Q1 of this year last year kind of Q2 and Q3 shade under $1 billion.
What's your best guess at this stage? And then moreover can you comment on your 1Z and 2Z business as well? It's -- that seem to have dipped a little bit in this quarter which was obviously more than offset by some of the larger orders.
Right.
As I've said we're confident we'll exceed $5 billion in inbound for the year and that -- we can all do the math that's $1 million plus.
So sub $1 million per quarter we'd get to that number.
What takes it higher? There are a couple of projects out there that if we're successful in winning and they stay in 2013 might get us to a higher end.
But I don't -- those could very easily -- we've seen it in the past those could very easily slip into 2014.
So I think that the safe thing to say given the timing of some of these projects the safe thing to say is with the 1Z 2Zs that we expect to happen in the second half and possibly another project or two and our ongoing increase in service revenue that sits so well above $5 billion.
The 1Z 2Z level which was down in Q2 it's nothing unusual there.
Most of the 1Z 2Zs come from call offs in the Gulf of Mexico.
As I said in my remarks the Gulf of Mexico is strong and I think the 1Zs 2Zs will make up most of the second half inbound.
Research Division</strong> So your baseline business was running call it $600 million $700 million a quarter.
I think we had it pegged as something like $350 million for Q2.
Do you think it looks more like what we were doing $600 million to $700 million for the second half of the year? Yes I think so.
Research Division</strong> Baseline 1Zs and 2Zs.
Okay good.
And then last one for me is if you had a hazard to guess at this stage which segment exits with the higher margin this year? Subsea or surface? Yes surface does.
I mean it's -- for lots of reasons I mean our fluid control business the nature of it not many passes surface carries historically carries better margin.
That will be the case for the second half of this year.
And our next question comes from Jim Crandell with Cowen Group.
Research Division</strong> John a couple of brief questions.
First of all out of the 405 trees in the first half how many of those are FMC? 117 plus -- 141 I'd add it up there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly apples versus apples John the pricing you're looking at on projects today that you're bidding on how would you compare that with a year ago? It's improved because the backlogs of the other subsea suppliers have filled up over the last -- not completely filled up but they have strengthened over the last year.
So the bidding intensity is less today than it was a year ago.
Now we'd like to -- where it goes and we have to see awards as they're made.
But compared to a year ago the pricing environment has improved like we anticipated as a result of all the subsea suppliers backlog's getting full.
Research Division</strong> And John would it be too much to say on average the pricing may have improved by 10%? That would be too much to say.
We don't have that many data points Jim right now.
I don't know where it's going to end up so that would be too much to say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last point is on the awarding of additional subsea separation projects.
Could you comment on the outlook there over the course of the rest of this year and for 2014? Right.
I mentioned I think this on earlier calls.
2013 for subsea processing projects was a little bit light.
That's not unusual.
This is going to be -- as the market adopts this new technology it's going to be pretty lumpy.
So there's about maybe one or two other projects that occur between now and the end of the year.
Looking forward to 2014 and even beyond 2015 there's more than a dozen name subsea processing projects in each of those years so I think it's going to -- the subsea processing market is going to materialize pretty much like we thought it would.
But it'll be lumpy certain years will be stronger than others just because of the timing of projects.
LLC Research Division</strong> So John you're saying one or two over the rest of this year and how many for 2014? I'm not saying awards I'm just saying there's a dozen named subsea processing projects in both '14 and '15 a dozen each year.
And some of those won't materialize some will.
But it's helpful to see that many named potential projects because it suggests that subsea processing awards going forward will start to gain momentum and increase.
Our next question comes from Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about within your flowline business obviously the commentary since we're upbeat for the second half of the year.
I'm wondering if you're seeing any slight changes in the competitive landscape at all? And what your thoughts around pricing are? I'll let Bob talk about that.
Yes no real changes in the competitive landscape.
We have seen pricing pressure in the flowline side of the business.
But again we see that market stabilizing.
The repair and replacement market continues to be reasonably strong.
As John mentioned no CapEx orders anticipated this year.
We will probably see things return to what we would consider a more normal state when that begins to occur.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'll follow up on the Pure deal.
How did the bundling of your services going and what's the market acceptance to that been like so far? Well first of all let me just back up and talk a bit about the integration of Pure.
It's going quite well.
Obviously as we had indicated earlier the second quarter was going to be our most challenging market with the integration of Pure because of the Canadian breakup followed by floods as you know.
However in the U.S.
we have begun to do some things that facilitate the bundling of our surface wellhead and completion services technologies including co-locating facilities collaborating in the sales and marketing arena.
So those things are still evolving.
I wouldn't suggest to you that we've reached the ultimate of bundling strategies but that's still an important part of what we're trying to do and we think those opportunities are there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on subsea.
Are you guys comfortable right now with the lead times you're seeing from suppliers and your ability to procure materials and deliver across the industry I guess what you are seeing and how are you guys feeling about your own capability? So a good question Will.
We've anticipated the supply chain will get constrained as these backlogs fill up and increase in subsea activity continues.
And so we've taken -- because that's what we saw in 2007.
And to prevent that we've taken steps to increase our investment in supply chain management.
We've signed long-term contracts with some of the -- our key suppliers to ensure that we have capacity.
And that's really helping us.
We're -- particularly in the area of same large forgings where we know they're starting to get constrained.
The fact that we bought two years worth of capacity from large forge shops has really helped us.
So we haven't seen yet a big increase in lead times from those supply chain.
But we anticipate that that'll be the case and we're taking steps and we have taken steps to mitigate it.
So far for us we have not seen a degradation in the supply chain.
But we're anxious about it and really redoubling our efforts to make sure that we don't get caught like the industry was caught in 2007.
And our next question comes from Rob MacKenzie of Iberia Capital Partners.
Well a lot of questions asked and answered so far.
What I would like to explore a little bit with you guys is coming back to the surface market and the flow control business.
I think John you mentioned or Maryann mentioned it was up sequentially quarter-over-quarter.
Is that correct? And what's the driver there? And how much more do you think we can see of that as we see wear and tear on existing frac in the U.S.
and elsewhere? Well as I've mentioned the fluid control business has stabilized and we anticipate that consumable portion of that business will increase and we've built that into our forecast that'll increase in the second half of the year.
Even though we said we don't expect the U.S.
rig count to increase we do expect because of improvements and efficiencies that they are going to -- to your point Rob the wear and tear will increase and the consumables portions of our fluid control business will increase and we're anticipating that in the second half.
What we have been clear on however is -- and Bob just mentioned it is that we don't anticipate any capital orders.
And there was a time during the up-cycle where capital orders was as much as 50% of our inbound.
That's what's missing and we don't see that returning until 2014.
Fair enough.
Am I correct in my assumption that capital reserves have substantial lower margin than consumables? No the margins are the same.
Okay great.
And going forward one of the things that stood out I guess a little bit this year is days sales outstanding had been higher than in prior periods.
Can you comment on efforts to improve that? Sure Rob.
It's Maryann.
So first of all hopefully you can see we made a nice reduction in working capital this year -- or excuse me this quarter and we have projections for both Q3 and Q4.
We're estimating in a range of about $250 million to $300 million more in further working capital reductions.
A big piece of the challenge that we had as you mentioned is really the timing of the execution of our projects because or the way we recognize revenue and the milestones.
And as we get some of these projects completed we'll see them move from what we call an unbilled position to a billed position and that's where we're expecting the back half of the year to see some further improvement in working capital.
And again we made some nice improvement again in this quarter as we've been talking about.
And this will be our last question.
We now have Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim Securities on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I wanted to follow-up on the refurb market and in particular traction of the Statoil model of going back and rebuilding trees and upgrading them for a more technology whether or not other operators are beginning to look at that model as being attractive and what that means for you over the next year or two? Well Michael that's exactly what we're referring to when we said the increase in refurbishment.
It was with Statoil.
We signed a contract with Statoil to provide their refurbishment.
We've expanded our physical capacity in Norway to be sure that we can handle the growing requirement for refurbished equipment.
So that's exactly what we were talking about and we think we're ready to proceed with that.
I think Statoil is a little bit different in the sense that Statoil has a very large installed base of aging population of subsea equipment.
So I think they're really kind of a harbinger bellwether for what the rest of the industry will see in the future.
I should mention Petrobras is very much in a similar situation and we've got recently expanded our refurbishment capability in Petrobras.
So that all sort of make sense.
The two largest oldest installed base of subsea equipment are the first ones to push for refurbishment.
And I think it just means that eventually the rest of the industry will follow that model as you suggested.
And I guess were benefits since a lot of that equipment of course is ours.
We're gearing up to be sure we can do that refurbishment work.
LLC Research Division</strong> More specifically are you seeing any interest in the U.K.
sector or with any of the operators in West Africa at this point? Well yes certainly.
Historically FMC didn't have a particularly big presence in the U.K.
sector in the North Sea so a lot of that equipment would not be ours.
Typically the original OEM at this point does all the refurbishment.
So I'm not so sure about the U.K.
sector of the subsea because a lot of that equipment isn't ours.
But West Africa the Gulf of Mexico absolutely as those basins mature the equipment gets older and a lot of that equipment is going to be ours we'll be providing the refurbishment.
And that was our final question.
I will now turn the call back over to Brad Alexander for closing remarks.
This concludes our second quarter conference call.
The replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2 p.m.
Eastern time today.
We will conduct our third quarter 2013 conference call on October 23 at 9 a.m.
Eastern time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Vanessa you may end the call.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter FMC Technologies Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
Now I'll now turn the call over to Brad Alexander.
You may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2013 and in conjunction with management's efforts to accelerate the development and commercialization of subsea boosting technology for subsea markets we are now -- we now report the results of Direct Drive Systems technology within our Subsea Technologies reporting segment.
They were previously reported in the Energy Infrastructure segment.
This movement negatively impacted third quarter Subsea Technologies' margins by approximately 50 basis points.
We filed an 8-K on October 16 to provide investors with historical financial information on the movement of Direct Drive Systems technology.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our third quarter 2013 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our CFO; and Bob Potter our President.
I'll discuss highlights from the quarter Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
But before I start my prepared remarks I'd like to knowledge Bob Potter.
Today will be Bob's last earnings call as earlier this month we announced his retirement after 40 successful years at FMC.
Bob has been a key contributor to the company's success and he was instrumental in helping the company triple in size from 2001 to today.
Bob's experience and vast knowledge of the Energy business will be missed.
Thank you Bob for your significant contributions to the success of our company.
Now to comment on the results.
Earnings were $0.49 per diluted share for the quarter.
Total company quarterly revenue was $1.7 billion and operating profit was $214 million.
Subsea Technologies inbounded $1.7 billion of awards in the quarter with revenue of $1.1 billion an increase of 20% over the prior year quarter.
Our Subsea Technologies operating margin of 10.8% for the quarter is disappointing.
This is largely the result of a shortfall in the Eastern Region where we experienced higher project completion cost and slower progress in optimizing our cost structure.
In the Eastern Region we experienced execution issues on legacy projects where we incurred higher-than-expected costs for rework liquidated damages and cost overruns all of which negatively impacted subsea margins.
Also the steps we identified to reduce structural costs in the Eastern Region are taking longer to implement and we're just now beginning to see the benefits of these actions.
As the margin profile of our backlog continues to increase when we complete our ongoing efforts to optimize the structure and correct our execution performance in the Eastern Region we expect improvement in both the fourth quarter and full year 2014 subsea margins.
Turning to our third quarter awards we have inbounded 44 subsea trees in the quarter.
Year-to-date we received 187 of the industry's 524 tree awards.
Segment backlog now stands at $6.5 billion.
Petrobras awarded FMC our third significant order this year for 11 manifolds.
Our strategic investments in Brazil in both talent and facilities have enabled us to win a substantial number of projects.
This is the result primarily of our ability to meet the local content requirements while providing confidence to Petrobras that we can meet their delivery schedules.
Tullow awarded FMC the TEN project in Ghana.
This represents our second large award in Ghana recognizing our in-country capabilities.
We see Ghana as an important part of the growing African subsea market.
In addition to these 2 large awards we received both an additional call-off from last year's Statoil Gullfaks award and an award from Shell for the BC-10 Phase 3 project in Brazil.
We entered the fourth quarter with $5.5 billion of subsea awards booked for the year.
And we feel very confident we will inbound over $6 billion of awards for the full year.
Turning to our Surface Technologies segment.
Surface Technologies delivered improved quarterly revenue and margin results.
Surface Technologies revenue was up from the second quarter primarily due to record surface wellhead sales and improved completion services activity in Canada.
We anticipate completion services activity will strengthen into the winter season.
As orders were strong again this quarter we expect sequential revenue improvement as we finish the year and enter 2014.
Fluid control activity was relatively flat sequentially as U.S.
land rig count was stable during the quarter.
We are not anticipating a significant change in the rig count for the remainder of the year.
In summary we recorded another strong quarter of subsea awards and are confident we'll exceed $6 billion of orders for the year.
Margins in subsea backlog continue to improve as we receive new awards in the better pricing environment.
Our significant investment in talent supply chain and facilities is delivering positive results in most of our regions as we successfully execute at a much higher activity level.
We anticipate similar results from the Eastern Region as we complete the structures changes we started last quarter and execution improves.
We expect improved Subsea Technology margins as we finish the year and we move in to 2014.
Surface Technologies revenue and earnings should again be strong in the fourth quarter as international surface wellhead orders and activity continue to be robust.
Fluid control volume appears stable and completion services experiences its seasonal growth in activity.
Maryann will now take you through the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks John.
Net income in the quarter was $116 million and included a $9 million charge or $0.04 per share related to the Multi Phase Meter earn-out obligation.
Subsea Technologies operating profit was $121 million in the quarter a 10% improvement from the prior quarter.
The Subsea Technologies operating margin was 10.8% which is below what we have been estimating.
In the quarter the Eastern Region experienced both structural and project cost challenges.
First as we have discussed last quarter we have identified the need to optimize our cost structure.
While we have made progress in most of our regions it has been slower than initially planned in the Eastern Region.
Additionally the Eastern Region also experienced higher project costs to complete some legacy projects including costs associated with schedule delays.
As a result cost remained at higher levels than forecast and have dampened near-term margins.
We continue to actively address this and we'll have the appropriate structure to meet growth requirements.
We are pleased with our operational performance in our other 3 regions.
Our margins and backlog continue to improve as we inbound new awards and complete these legacy projects.
Overall considering the issues that John and I have just discussed we now expect full Subsea Technologies margins at approximately 11% for 2013.
Our Subsea Technologies backlog stands at a record $6.5 billion.
The majority of this comes from projects inbounded since the beginning of 2012 when the margin profile of awards began to improve.
These projects should drive our margin expansion going forward especially when we have the legacy projects behind us and have completed these structural adjustments.
Moving to our Surface Technologies results.
Surface Technologies operating profit for the quarter was $75 million a 30% increase from the prior year quarter and sequentially increased activity post-Canadian breakup helped operating result for completion services.
Surface wellhead delivered another strong quarter as international activity continues to drive solid results.
Fluid control profit was sequentially flat as activity remains stable consistent with minimal quarterly change in the North American rig count.
The segment margin in the quarter was 16.3% a 330 basis point improvement from the second quarter and all 3 business lines saw improvement.
This was most noticeable for completion service as it emerged from the Canadian breakup.
Orders for Surface Technology for the quarter were $477 million on the continued strength of the international surface wellhead business and sequential growth in completion services orders.
This was partially offset with some decline in fluid control.
Segment backlog stands at $608 million with the year-over-year increase coming from the growth in international surface wellhead orders.
In the fourth quarter we should see solid operating profit and sales increase from our conversion of international wellhead backlog to revenue and completion service benefits from the traditionally strong Canadian winter months.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $10.4 million.
We expect this to average between $12 million and $13 million for the fourth quarter.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $27.1 million.
This includes a $9 million charge related to the obligation for the MPM earn-out as the business continues to exceed our performance expectation.
2013 is the final year of the MPM earn-out.
Absent foreign exchange fluctuations and any other MPM earn-out adjustments we expect other expense net of approximately $20 million in the fourth quarter.
Our third quarter tax rate was 30.9%.
We anticipate our fourth quarter tax rate to be between 28% and 29%.
Capital spending this quarter was $81 million primarily directed towards Subsea Technologies expansion initiatives.
Capital spending in 2013 is forecast at approximately $350 million.
At the end of the third quarter we have net debt of $1.2 billion comprised of $360 million of cash and $1.6 million of debt.
We average 238.9 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter and we repurchased 397 000 shares of stock during the third quarter at an average cost of $55.19 per share.
In summary we have reached a record level of subsea orders through the first 3 quarters of 2013.
Subsea Technologies margins will see improvement in the coming quarters with increased revenue from an improving project mix being delivered through a more optimal cost structure.
We continue to expect Subsea Technologies margins for 2014 to average in the range of 14% to 15%.
Margins for Surface Technologies continue to improve and should remain in the mid-teens as international markets continue to perform well and the U.S.
market is stabilizing.
As a result of the higher costs associated with the underperformance of our Eastern Region and the additional charge related to the MPM earn-out we are adjusting our full year earnings guidance to the range of $2 to $2.10 per share.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> John and Maryann I want to come back on the subsea margin outlook here and just try to reconcile a little bit in terms of kind of what you're seeing now and kind of what you expected say earlier this year.
I know Maryann you have kind of laid out and John laid out some items that were going to improve subsea margin over the course of '13 one being this lighter R&amp;D load that you guys have taken on early in the year you had accelerated and you were going to get some tailwinds on that.
You had those 0 margin projects for CLOV and Laggan-Tormore that were going to be coming off the book which were going to help.
And then you all had talked previously about these absorption of the subsea engineers helping margins as well.
Has that actually occurred at this point or is that still something that's to come or has that just basically been cannibalized by these Eastern Region execution issues? Bill let me explain more specifically what happened to the subsea margins this quarter.
The actual subsea margins of 10.8% were well below our expected margin of 13%.
The shortfall essentially all came from the Eastern Region in 4 specific areas.
It came from liquidated damage charges that we incurred because towards the end of the quarter several scheduled dates slipped triggering liquidated damage exposure.
We also incurred significantly higher rework than we normally do for legacy projects in the Eastern Region towards the end of the quarter on equipment that had shipped.
And then as both Maryann and I have mentioned we had planned and we had put in place significant actions to reduce the overhead costs in the Eastern Region.
Those occurred much slower than we anticipated and are essentially was no positive effect on the quarter.
And then finally what we talked about is this shift in reporting of the segment of DDS.
So the -- your point about the things that we laid out before actually all happened the reduced R&amp;D occurred as we expected the reduction in the low margin CLOV and Laggan-Tormore projects happened as we expected although some of the rework that we incurred in the third quarter was indeed related to CLOV and Laggan-Tormore.
But the flowing through of the P&amp;L of those low margins occurred exactly as we expected.
And then in terms of the cost reduction and overhead that actually occurred in the other regions.
I mentioned in the last quarter that because of some schedule slippage in the Gulf of Mexico that we need to do some adjustments to the overhead cost structure in the Western Region those actions were in fact taken and the results were as we expected.
The shortfall is in the Eastern Region rework liquidated damages that the -- essentially no benefit from the action that has since been taken at the end of the quarter reduced the overhead structure.
So the items that you pointed out that we laid out in the previous calls happened pretty much as we expected.
What we didn't expect obviously was the significant execution issues in the Eastern Region that impacted us in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful John.
So Maryann if I look at your full year subsea margin forecast of 11% that would imply a 13% margin for 4Q roughly.
And then we just build up to that 14% to 15% on average for next year is that fair? Yes.
Bill you're right.
And as John mentioned when we exclude if you will for what happened in the Eastern Region we achieved the margin guidance that we were expecting for the third quarter.
We clearly expect to have those Eastern Region issues addressed.
And therefore given the margins in our backlog our ability to correct the Eastern Region we can see a clear path to the 14% 15% that we talked about for 2014.
Again our margins in backlog have continued to improve as John mentioned.
So yes you're correct we're looking at about 13% in 4Q in order to reach that 11% full year.
Research Division</strong> It's almost like Maryann considering you had a 50 basis point ding to DDS that's now running to the numbers and the fact you're keeping this 14% to 15% margin impact for '14 it's also implying you guys in the base subsea business are doing better than what the expectations modestly raised which -- is that an unfair assessment or I'm trying to cut it too fine there? Yes -- well perhaps a little bit too fine.
But as we think about DDS we have moved it into the subsea region for the reason why we have acquired DDS and that is to maximize the potential on the pump.
And a lot of those costs that have occurred in 2013 for DDS to complete a lot of the development work will go away.
So DDS does improve in 2014 as well.
And our next question is from Robin Shoemaker from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Could I just clarify one thing.
First off on the guidance for 2013 does that include -- the 20 -- $2 to $2.10 does that include the MPM payout charge? Yes it does Robin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on the strong bookings that you've had this year.
First off typically in recent years you've had a strong fourth quarter subsea bookings.
And given the very strong first 3 quarters of 2013 do you expect that again to be a strong kind of seasonal fourth quarter order number? No Robin.
2013 was a year that we characterized by the major subsea awards occurring early in the year.
And in fact when you look at the fourth quarter there are a couple of big projects that we're getting very close to obviously the end of the year now and they could easily slip into 2014.
So no we shouldn't see a whole bunch of awards necessarily because they're not poised to be in the fourth quarter.
And that's why in my notes I said we should easily beat $6 billion but that will be because of our ongoing smaller project awards.
And quite frankly it doesn't include a whole series of very large awards which I think it's correct given that there's only a few out there and we're getting towards the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now on the strong backlog going into 2014 I think you've said historically that about 60% of backlog at year end converts to revenue in the following year.
If that was the case then your revenues from out of backlog would be up considerably more than 50% next year compared to 2013 plus customer support plus book in turn.
So I guess my question is is there any reason why you wouldn't have that kind of 60% conversion of backlog in 2014 given the nature of the backlog that you have? Yes.
Robin there is a couple of very specific reasons.
What's currently in the backlog is Petrobras pre-salt awards that includes 2 major tree awards totaling up over 127 trees and then the recently announced manifolds which was -- we announced 11 and prior to that we had announced 3.
So our backlog is very heavily loaded with a lot of pre-salt work which consists of 4 years’ worth of requirements.
They're going to be shipped over multi-years.
We've never had a backlog complexion like that before.
And therefore the 60% conversion is not appropriate.
We think it's somewhere between 50% and 55%.
The other thing that's happening is we've received some awards a little later this year that also will be difficult to convert in 2014.
So we do not expect the 60% conversion rate primarily because of Petrobras and also because of some of the success we've had later this year winning some big projects that won't convert much in 2014.
So it needs to be I think in the 50% conversion rate would be a good number to use.
Our next question is from David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the Eastern Region how much of your backlog that's converting into revenue over the next call it 12 to 18 months is out of the Eastern Region? Dave about 40%.
We booked the Egina award earlier this year and that's a big piece of it.
So about 40%.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of your highlighted really kind 2 dynamics here in terms of the execution issues you talked about the structural issues and the project related.
Can you help us understand the timing of both of those? How long do these take to get resolved? Obviously we had the Laggan-Tormore and CLOV issues last year.
Are we talking something similar on the same kind of time frame here? Can you just kind of help us understand how these 2 dynamics get resolved over the next -- or however long it takes? Yes.
First of all the issues I talked about for example on rework that's behind us.
There's nothing -- this isn't something that's going to continue through the P&amp;L.
Obviously there's risk of issues but the rework problems that we incurred on Laggan-Tormore or CLOV are onetime events that happened.
So they don't lower the margins and we have to flush things.
The same is quite frankly is true of the liquidated damages.
These are single date slippages that triggered liquidated damages.
Part of our plan and what we're putting in place is to significantly and quickly shore up the execution issues in the Eastern Region so we don't have any more slippage and we essentially do our best to eliminate any more liquidated damage exposure.
So we're not talking about lowering the margins on these legacy problematic projects that we have to live with for quarters as they flush through the backlog.
And that doesn't mean that we don't have serious execution issues in the Eastern Region that have to be addressed and will be addressed immediately.
And that's what we're obviously -- what's in our guidance is that we quickly shore up these execution issues in the Eastern Region.
And we get back to the 13% margins that we would have achieved in the third quarter and that are required for the fourth quarter to hit our new guidance.
Research Division</strong> So John it sounds like you're talking about the kind of cost rationalization issue that you're talking about here.
Is this more about kind of just getting poised for the ramp-up in manufacturing so we're at that -- almost at an inflection point right now you're trying to get all the controls in place is that what we're talking about? Certainly there's some of that Dave.
What we've been anticipating for several years is the ramp-up in subsea.
It has materialized.
We have back-to-back years '11 to '12 we had a 30-plus percent increase in industry activity; from '12 to '13 we had a 45% increase in activity.
We anticipated that we've been able to hold on to our market leadership position.
We made the investments over the last 2 years in preparation to execute at that much higher level of activity.
By and large those investments are paying off.
All the other regions are executing at a much higher level of activity than we've ever done in our past and I'll give you just a reference.
The number of subsea trees that we have delivered at the current rate is almost 2.5x what we delivered 2 years ago.
And in fact that number of subsea trees we're delivering that demonstrated ability to deliver those is about in line with what's required for 2014.
So the anticipation of the market growth holding on to our leadership position the investments we've made by and large are making our organization -- are allowing our organization to execute at the higher level that's required with the exception of the Eastern Region.
And it's twofold they're not executing as well which is why we had the rework issues why we had the liquidated damage issues and that is what has to be fixed.
And we will fix it.
It's the highest priority in the organization.
We're going to get the Eastern Region to execute at the level that the rest of the organization is.
The other factor is the cost structure in the Eastern Region is not where we want it to be going forward and thus we've taken those steps.
Unfortunately they were implemented at the end of the quarter rather than the beginning of the quarter like we had planned and those will be -- those will flow through the P&amp;L in the fourth quarter.
Quite frankly we're not satisfied that those actions are enough and we're deepening the steps that we're taking in terms of lowering the costs and those actions will be implemented -- those additional actions will be implemented in the fourth quarter and to some extent in the first quarter.
So my point is we are extremely well positioned because the market growth the investments we've made the execution that we're demonstrating in the other regions positions us to be on target with the guidance that we gave not only for the fourth quarter but for 2014.
But it's dependent upon us fixing the execution issues which we will do.
Our next question is from Ed Muztafago from Societe Generale.
Just wanted to focus a little bit on the Surface business.
Obviously that's been performing I think a lot better than we might have expected.
Do you see any risk to Surface in the fourth quarter from a slowdown in the North American market? I mean that's something that the service companies have been kind of calling for here as we go through the quarter.
Ed not really.
I mean the strength of our service market right now is coming from international both in Europe Africa and the Middle East.
And we don't see any slowdown in that at all.
So the risk is in North America and we believe it's stable.
Yes it's at a trough and we're not -- none of our guidance numbers assume that there'll be an uptick but we don't see any degradation.
I'll let Bob Potter make a comment on North America activity.
Yes.
Just to add to that keep in mind Canada is beginning into its winter drilling season which should certainly help our Completion Services business and take it back to its traditional levels of volume.
Added to that even though the rig count is fairly stagnant at the trough as John alluded to we're still seeing some impact of drilling efficiencies pad drilling more wells per rig which are certainly helping our repair and replacement business and our fluid control business to remain pretty stable.
No CapEx orders are expected this year.
And quite candidly what we're hearing from the service companies is that their level of capital spending next year will be about the same as it was in '13.
So we're not banking on that but we do see some opportunities to begin to claw our way out of the trough in the North American business going forward.
Couple that with the fact that international continues to do very very well in both our Eastern and Asia-Pacific regions and we believe that the Surface Technologies part of our business is well positioned.
I wanted to follow up actually ask on the boosting projects a little bit.
Because I know the last time when we all talked that you guys were still optimistic that Moho would occur this year.
And just kind of wondering if you could give your thoughts on potentially where we stand if you think those projects may all slip into '14? Right.
There were 2 projects that we're targeting for our helico-axial pump one was Total Moho and the other is Eni 15/06 project.
Total Moho we are unlikely Ed to win.
As you know Framo was the incumbent.
Although we were qualified from Total just the timing of the project and so forth it looks like we're probably not going to be successful on Total Moho.
Where they are in their award I don't actually know.
With regard to Eni 15/06 where we are in the running and we're qualified for our pump has been deferred to 2014.
Now there are a number of projects in 2014 for both boosting hence 1 or 2 for separation about 4 or 5 projects in 2014 and we'll obviously hope to get a pump award during that year.
Our next question is from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So to get back to the subsea margins again.
I mean it is probably the most important thing with respect to your stocks.
So when it -- I wonder when you mentioned that the cost structure implemented at the end of the quarter rather than the beginning of the quarter could you just sort of explain a little bit more detail what exactly this that you're trying to achieve? Is it a business that's too big for the current order volume that's catching up? Is it undersized and it invest more it needed to take our people ultimate? Could you just share a little bit more on why you're so confident that you're going to bring these margins higher? Right Ole.
When we anticipated the market growth which I described earlier and we took the steps 2.5 years ago to add capacity and add talent it wasn't immediately obvious or clear where that load would actually land.
So we made the investments over the course of the last 2.5 years.
Now we see the backlog actually materialized.
It's materializing somewhat differently than we originally anticipated.
The Eastern Region backlog is down almost $600 million from where we expected.
As a result we need to make an adjustment to the cost structure in the Eastern Region.
This is something that we anticipated.
We knew when we made those original investments that there have to be adjustments along the way.
The disappointment is that we identified those adjustments 4 and 5 months ago put things in place which included specific headcount reductions in the Eastern Region that we fully anticipated to put in place early in the quarter so we would see some of the results in the third quarter.
In Norway it's particularly hard to make some of these changes and it took longer than we -- despite our best efforts it took longer than we anticipated.
Those changes have now in fact been implemented.
And therefore we're confident that they will appear in the fourth quarter because they have been taken.
But to ensure that we get the cost structure right we have decided to take additional cost structure changes which will be implemented also in the fourth quarter and early next year.
That coupled with our focus on improving the execution issues that we're now experiencing in the Eastern Region is what gives us confidence that the Eastern Region financial performance and execution performance will start to model and look like what we're achieving in the rest of the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you now feel totally happy that the first kind of initiative is resulting in the improvement that you had expected? Ole there's nothing happy about this.
But we are -- yes we're convinced that the actions we took there in place they're done.
So you can't reverse them.
They're done and they'll show up in the fourth quarter.
Our challenge as a company is to take the aggressive steps both in terms of shoring up the organization so that they can consistently execute the levels that we expect and to push harder so that we don't see any delays in additional actions that we plan to take.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you don't look at that part of it and in context of the legacy project costs and the liquidated damages how important that each one of these 3 in terms of -- to get right in terms of achieving your margin uplift? Well I think they're all -- I mean they're all equal.
The cost structure is completely within our control.
We know exactly what we need to do and we need to get on with implementing it.
And it's very important because if we don't get the cost structure right we'll be living with that in the next year which is unacceptable.
The general execution issues though are also important not only for financial performance but because of our performance to our customers.
And so I would say they're all equal.
We can't afford and we have no intention of living with rework -- rework events of the magnitude of what we experienced in the Eastern Region.
Now I have a lot of -- I have confidence that a lot of the rework and some of the cost overruns that we've experienced are associated with these legacy projects which have been problematic for us for over a year.
And those are -- those will flush out through the backlog.
New projects like the Total Egina project is very different than these legacy projects.
We were well prepared for it the supply chain is lined up and it looks a lot more in terms of execution like our Total Pazflor project where we were very successful in execution.
So to answer your question I think all 3 are important we need to achieve all 3.
And as I said we know what we need to do to get this fixed.
Research Division</strong> So project are getting larger as a trend and -- which means that delays become also more tricky to manage.
So what are you doing in your organization with respect to addressing the risk of ongoing projects slippage? Are you designing contracts differently than what you did before are you building in other contingencies in the organization to deal with this? Well all of those to some extent when we look at a large project we look at all of its risk we look at technical risk operational risk financial risk commercial risk.
Clearly that continues to improve throughout our company.
But the fundamental thing on these larger projects is just good execution.
And what we're doing there is we are strengthening the management team in the Eastern Region so we can be more successful in executing these larger projects.
We're redirecting our global resources some of our technical talent our project management talent supply chain talent redirecting it to the Eastern Region so we can have more experienced capacity to ensure that these big projects are executed well.
So these are the kinds of steps that we're taking in the Eastern Region to ensure that small projects or large projects are executed well.
Research Division</strong> And just finally on Brazil.
Can you give us an update on the performance on your subsea separation water separation system there? Ole largely no change.
The separation -- the Marlim separation pilot system continues to operate fine no issues.
We are actively working with Petrobras on their assessment of how to apply this new technology to the Campos Basin.
I'd love to give you kind of a time frame as to where we are Ole I don't know that.
All I can tell you is that Petrobras is very active in figuring out how they're going to apply this new technology in those fields and we're helping them with that.
There's really no change other than it's moving forward.
Our next question is from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> John can you -- do you hazard a guess as to when Block 32 is going to get awarded? Well Bill that project is the largest project ever in subsea and it's in West Africa so we should be careful about picking a date just because it's bound to be -- to go through delays.
I will tell you from the bidding process and the discussion in terms of clarifications it's all moving forward.
So that's all I can tell you.
It's just so big.
I mean what they're saying -- probably what they're saying is the order will occur in 2014.
But it would be naive to be overly confident on that given its size its complexity and its nature of being in West Africa.
Research Division</strong> We haven't talked about this but I was curious as to whether you could update us with regard to leading-edge subsea pricing.
The subsea pricing improvements continues to improve as these awards and as we've talked about before significant awards in 2013 start landing in the backlogs of the various subsea suppliers.
The competitive intensity continues to be reduced.
As I mentioned our margins and backlog for almost 10 quarters now has continued to improve reflecting the better pricing environment.
I know I'm hopeful that the projects that will be awarded -- any large projects awarded at the end of this year and in next year should reflect improved pricing.
Now how high and how do we get to peak and that sort of thing I think we've got to let it play out.
But we know that 2014 awards are not insignificant.
And coming off the heels of 2 very large years with all the suppliers' backlogs getting filled up I'm still convinced that there's room for pricing improvement in the market.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the pricing for 2013 have you been pleased with the realized pricing? Has it come in line or have you been sort of modestly disappointed relative to your expectations coming into the year? There were a couple of suppliers that I expected to have more pricing change around mid-2013 based on my judgment of how their backlog filled up.
And I missed that.
Meaning I -- they continue to price aggressively well beyond what I expected their capacity to be.
And therefore I'm disappointed in that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Back to Surface which a couple of folks have observed correctly that -- I mean the margin performance there has been really rather considerably better than when most of us had expected coming into the year.
And even throughout the year you guys have really continued to over-deliver on that front.
So I guess within Surface where are surface wellhead margins relative to prior-cycle peaks right now? They're -- again Bill our strength in surface wellhead is international.
We have very strong positions in the Middle East and in Europe Africa.
The competitive intensity is less so than in North America where you've got a lot of small mom-and-pops.
So we are benefiting from the growth in surface wellhead international and we've seen pricing improvement in both Europe and Africa and the Middle East versus prior years.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Because I mean -- I guess what I'm getting at is that within the framework of Surface it seems -- I mean I can't recall your surface wellhead margins I know you don't disclose this but we triangulate back into them.
I don't recall seeing them as robust as they are currently running to deliver a 16.3% margin for Surface overall with flat fluid control in the quarter.
Is that a fair statement? Yes.
Well one of the things you're seeing is the fact that our international surface wellhead business is really transformed in the last couple of years or so.
And we're supplying a tremendous amount of what I would call high-spec wellhead a lot of large bore clad equipment as we provide some of these markets that are looking at natural gas as an indigenous power source.
So we're seeing a fairly pronounced shift in the kinds of wellhead systems that we're providing in some of our key markets.
That coupled with the fact that some of our recent strength is coming out of a what I would call a rebirth in the North Sea over the last few months it's a different type of wellhead environment that we're in relative to the past.
And therefore a little bit difficult to compare margins in terms of what we're doing today versus what we may have been doing in the past.
Research Division</strong> Last one for me.
You have persistent with your prophesy of 14% to 15% margins for subsea for '15 -- for '14 sorry about that.
For Surface Technologies it looks like you're going to average something close to mid-teens for the year assuming margins continue to improve into the fourth quarter and it sounds like they will.
Should we expect something better than that at this stage for 2014 average margins for Surface Technologies? Yes.
Bill so you're right we're looking at mid-teens for full year for Surface Technologies.
As I think we mentioned earlier and you clearly stated we're seeing good strengths in the back half of the year.
As we think about next year still too early really to call what's going to happen with North America so we're not expecting a significant uptick from this year.
So we would expect on average right now that we would see similar margins in '14 as we see full year in '13 in that mid-teens level.
Our next question is from Doug Becker from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> At the risk of flogging a dead horse do want to touch base on Subsea Technology margins again.
You mentioned that you were expecting 13% in the third quarter.
The previous guidance would have implied 16% in the fourth quarter using that logic.
I want to get a better handle on the reconciliation between that 16% using fourth quarter margin using the old guidance and the 13% or so that's implied versus the new guidance particularly given that it sounds like the rework is somewhat done at least the first part of the optimization the cost structure is done.
There seems like there's 300 basis points there that at least in my mind needs a little help explaining.
Sure.
Let me try to help triangulate that for you.
So you're right as we talked about we were expecting kind of in the range of the 13s for the third quarter.
And as I mentioned earlier if you will allow to eliminate the challenges that we had in the Eastern region we were able to achieve those margins.
You may remember last quarter we said about 12% to 13%.
So you're right in order for us to get to that high end we would have had to approach closer to 16% in the back half of the year -- or excuse me in the fourth quarter.
Absent -- and clearly a lot of things would have to go right to reach that.
The things that are working as we talked about is the lower concentration if you will as we complete the legacy projects in the quarter and again expected in the fourth quarter they are less than 0.5% of our total contribution.
So in general we've got a better mix of projects coming through.
Our subsea services in the third and fourth quarter as we talked about are stronger and that is happening as we expected and similarly our R&amp;D.
So we are expecting in the fourth quarter to be able to achieve the cost reductions in the Eastern region.
But certainly we expected that to happen in the third quarter.
So we are being cautious with respect to the fourth quarter margins to ensure that -- pardon me to ensure that we are able to achieve both the cost reductions and get the execution adjustments made in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Just so I -- to make sure I understand correctly you're suggesting that the main difference here is that -- it's the additional cost optimization that's really the focus on the fourth quarter the difference between the 16% from the 13%? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we could take a look at 2014 just a little bit we rate the 50% to 55% backlog conversion.
For services is $1.5 billion in the ballpark and for booking terms something around $550 million in the ballpark? Service number might be a little high.
But yet it's close both of them.
Our next question is from Jud Bailey from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask actually about subsea services.
This is a segment that you guys have been positive on in the past and I think you had guided -- this year you're expecting roughly 10% growth.
And I wanted to see has that business been in line or better than kind of your expectations this year? And how should we think about that business in 2014 and the various drivers in which we focus on there? We're achieving the 10% growth but we would expect that because over our traditional subsea services the subsea market is growing by that amount.
And we'd expect the same thing in 2014.
So the conventional services that we provide in subsea services is growing in accordance with the market and should easily achieve a 10% rate.
What we've been bullish on and optimistic about is the new services that we're providing.
Now the timing of that is a little more challenging to predict but that's on top of the conventional services that we provide today in those growth rates.
As you know we're -- we've got 3 Light Well Intervention stacks in service they're all performing very well.
We have launched the development of a fourth stack.
It will be completed sometime next year.
We're confident we'll successfully contract that.
That will be additive to the service revenue.
There's others -- components of our service strategy that will start to kick in.
So yes I think things are behaving as we thought they would both in terms of conventional subsea service growth and the new services we're providing.
Just want to watch the timing of the new services because that reflects the industry's adoption of some of these new technologies.
But is it going to happen? Sure absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I would have -- I guess with some of the new assets you have coming in online I would have thought next year you could have had better growth perhaps and even into '15.
Would the bias be higher than that 10% given the big amount of work you have coming in 2014 and '15? I don't know.
I mean the big assets that we're adding is the Light Well Intervention stack.
It doesn't come on line until the end of '14.
We're not going to get stacks 5 and 6 beyond that until 2015 and beyond.
So I think it would be a mistake to be too optimistic about how much those additional assets come on stream in terms of revenue additions certainly for like 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next question would be on looking into next year in terms of your hiring needs.
You've said in the past that you were pretty aggressive early in the cycle on staffing up and -- but I think this year's orders have been probably above expectations.
Could you give us a sense of maybe your hiring plans for next year or how much you're going to have to hire to accommodate the strong order growth you've seen over the last 12 months or so? Well Jud the answer is very limited because we've made all these investments and paid the price I might add for adding all these investments almost 2.5 years ago.
The hiring that we're most concerned about is that experienced technical talent which doesn't exist.
We made the decision to hire new grad technical talent 2.5 years ago.
We added almost 2 000 people in 2011; 2 000 people in 2012.
It takes between 2.5 3 years to get an entry-level engineer reasonably efficient.
We made all those investments.
And then in 2013 we started tapering off because the investments were made in those earlier years.
And so far year-to-date we've only added a couple of hundred new people into subsea.
And so as you look into 2014 the headcount addition should be fairly modest particularly in the area of technical talent which is what we're most focused on.
So we've already seen the manpower adds taper off this year and we'd see only modest growth next year.
All those adds were made several years ago.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my last question is you announced the award of 10 complex in October.
Was that booked though in the third quarter? Was that in your inbound order number? It was in the third quarter inbound number Tullow TEN yes.
Our next question is from Jim Crandell from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> My questions has been answered.
The next question is from Byron Pope from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> You answered most of my questions.
But Maryann I just wanted to get your thoughts on 2014 CapEx.
I guess you have an additional Light Well Intervention stack but I wanted to just get a feel for how you're all at this point are thinking about 2014 CapEx.
And then would there be any dynamics with the working capital intensity that would be dissimilar from what you've experienced this year? Byron yes.
So obviously we're still working through final 2014 budgeting.
But at this point in time we're expecting similar ranges probably somewhere in the neighborhood of $400 million.
A lot of -- as John explained earlier a lot of our capacity expansions to meet the subsea growth have been completed.
There's a few things that's left to be done but we are as John also said talking about or completing our fourth stack.
So we'll see some requirements to support the growth in the services business.
But right around that $400 million level is probably where I would anticipate at this juncture.
But we'll give some clear guidance on that as we get further out probably in that range to slightly higher.
As it relates to working capital we've been talking about the change that we're expecting.
The fourth quarter is still a pretty significant change for us in terms of the working capital that we are expecting.
So as it relates to next year for 2014 we believe that the efficiencies that we should be seeing as we get back on track that is sitting in an uncollectible position longer than we would expect should help us to see improvements in the efficiency.
Having said that our top line still will grow.
So there will probably be working capital needs.
But from an efficiency standpoint we will improve.
And our final question comes from Jim Wicklund from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mr.
Potter I would like to say thank you and congratulations.
It has been an absolute pleasure to know you and work with you over the many years.
And I have no question you will have a fabulous retirement and I will keep up with you on Facebook.
Congrats.
Thanks Jim.
Research Division</strong> Guys one thing we haven't talked about is orders for next year.
According to Quest which we all realized is imperfect but they're looking at 195 trees ordered by Petrobras this year and only 90 next year.
And they say that recently that the pessimism in terms of order rate they're getting more comfortable around the bottom end of their projected range rather than the median case.
How much do you think subsea tree orders will be down in '14? Well Jim they're going to be -- I think they're -- well my belief is they're going to be down by the Petrobras amount.
Petrobras awarded 200 trees in -- 208 or something I think in 2013.
The total number of trees in 2013 is going to be somewhere between as my guess 570 to 600 trees minus the 208 means there's 400 others.
And so I'm a little suspect on the Petrobras additional trees meaning most of their pre-salt requirements have been awarded.
They're not under a lot of pressure in my view toward a whole bunch more trees.
So I would take close to 600 trees are awarded this year and back out Petrobras 200.
Will we be able to achieve 400 trees next year for the industry? Possibly.
The only issue I have is that when you look at the large projects they're back-end loaded.
So if any of those like Big Colombo [ph] or something if that doesn't make it in 2014 it will be hard to hit 400.
And so that's the only concern I would have.
I believe that there's certainly enough activity out there to equal both years to be strong years minus Petrobras.
But we've got to watch those projects towards the end of the year if they slip in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question.
You were disappointed a little bit in the Eastern Hemisphere orders about $600 million or so and so you're overstaffed there.
Since you've hit record orders I would have to believe that the Western Hemisphere has been a upside surprise to you.
Is there a cost issue for that as well? No no.
And there has been upside in other -- including Brazil has been an upside as well.
But yes you're exactly right if Eastern Region is down and Total were up then other regions are above our expectations and that's a plus.
That means that -- for me it's a plus because those other regions are executing extremely well.
And that execution performance I believe is sustainable.
And so our better performing organizations will have a bigger backlog to execute well on so I'd say I'll call it a plus.
This concludes our third quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our fourth quarter 2013 conference call on February 7 at 9 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
John you may now end the call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the FMC Technologies Fourth Quarter Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn the call over to Brad Alexander.
Brad you may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
With me today is Maryann Seaman our CFO.
I'll start with some highlights from the quarter and for the year.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and our outlook for 2014 and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Regarding the results for the quarter and full year earnings were $0.74 per diluted share for the quarter and $2.10 for the full year an 18% increase over our prior year performance and our 12th consecutive year of earnings growth.
Our operational performance in the fourth quarter was strong especially in Subsea Technologies where we achieved record subsea revenue and subsea margins were 13.6% when excluding an Angolan tax adjustment that Maryann will discuss later.
Record quarterly operating profit was driven primarily by year-over-year growth in our Subsea Technologies segment.
We've taken actions to improve the operational efficiencies in the Eastern Region.
Specifically we've reduced our contract workforce and implemented process improvements and organizational changes over the past few months.
The initial benefit of these actions contributed to our improved fourth quarter operational performance.
We are now implementing a plan to reduce staff and support employees in the first quarter and we will continue to focus on ensuring that the improved performance as a result of these actions is sustainable.
Subsea Technologies record revenue of $1.4 billion in the quarter represented a 24% sequential and 13% year-over-year increase and drove the segment's full year revenue to $4.7 billion.
Our subsea revenue has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 20% since 2010 thus reinforcing our decision to invest in capacity ahead of the growth in the subsea market.
We anticipate year-over-year quarterly and full year revenue growth in 2014 although the first quarter we'll experience significant sequential decline.
And we're forecasting that activity will return to higher levels in the second quarter.
Subsea Technologies inbound for the fourth quarter was $1 billion and it included the recent Statoil award for the Snorre B workover system in Norway.
We were awarded 6 trees in the quarter bringing our 2013 total to 193 trees.
Our full year market share for the industry tree awards is approximately 35%.
Operators continue to award subsea projects in all the deepwater basins throughout the world consistent with their strategic development of their deepwater portfolios.
Our 2013 total inbound was a record $6.5 billion and includes significant year-over-year growth for both Multi Phase Meters and Schilling Robotics.
As a result of our strong order performance this year we exited the year with $6 billion in Subsea Technologies backlog.
Surface Technologies fourth quarter revenue was $489 million on the strength of our international surface wellhead business.
In the quarter we inbounded a record amount of orders to our growing position in the Middle East.
Our Fluid Control business has performed well in the current North American market and this is the result of strong activity and related demand for our repair and replacement flowline equipment.
Looking forward we expect subsea revenue in 2014 to exceed $5 billion a more modest growth rate than what we experienced over the last few years.
This is due to lower backlog conversion associated with awards we received from Petrobras last year that have a multiyear delivery schedule and Total's Egina project that also has a longer delivery schedule.
We expect continued subsea margin improvement achieving full year subsea margins of 13% to 14% through improvements and execution and conversion of a better priced backlog.
Turning to subsea order activity for the industry.
Total tree orders will be down as Petrobras will not repeat the 2013 awards related to their multiyear pre-salt requirements.
Excluding these trees we expect awards for the industry should be equal to if not greater than 2013.
There are a large number of projects expected in West Africa with the possibility of the industry's largest award Kaombo in Angola being made this year.
It's also likely we'll see the first major awards from East Africa along with year-over-year order strength coming from Asia-Pacific.
The Gulf of Mexico should again be strong as a large number of newbuild ultra-deepwater rigs enter the market and our partners BP Shell Anadarko and Hess increase their activity in the Gulf.
We believe we can inbound at least $5 billion in subsea awards in 2014.
The large number of industry subsea awards over the last couple of years has filled backlogs and the pricing environment remains positive.
When evaluating the projects that are likely to be awarded in the next few years we don't expect this trend to change.
Looking at our growth platforms in subsea services we expect to bring our fourth Light Well Intervention stack into the market later this year and is planned to be used in our joint venture with Suez.
We further expect to expand our market reach in this growing subsea services market.
Our service facility expanses [ph] in Norway and Brazil will allow us to meet growing customer demand for customer refurbishment.
And the continued focus on maximizing reservoir recovery is increasing the demand for the life of field services that we have developed.
In Surface Technologies the international market should remain strong in 2014.
North America looks relatively flat from an industry perspective.
But with better integration of our products and services we expect to improve our market position.
We recently received a multiyear Pemex contract renewal with a potential value of $64 million and our backlog for the Middle East and Europe is at record levels.
Conversely North America has seen flat activity over the last few years and we believe this is likely to persist throughout the year.
In the long term we continue to view the shale plays as a growth opportunity and are taking steps to further integrate our products and services to better serve our customers in the shale markets.
In summary we delivered strong operational results this quarter.
Subsea Technologies' improved execution and project mix resulted in significant sequential margin expansion in the fourth quarter.
Subsea Technologies' 2014 outlook includes increased revenue and improved margins with inbound awards that will remain at high levels coming off of our record year in 2013.
Surface Technologies' outlook includes another strong year of international surface wellhead activity and we expect to deliver our 13th consecutive year of earnings growth.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter and for the full year and provide a more detailed explanation of our 2014 expectations.
Thanks John.
Our fourth quarter operational performance was solid.
Included in our earnings in the fourth quarter is an $11.1 million charge or $0.05 per share for the increased liability associated with the earnout from our Multi Phase Meters acquisition as performance was better than forecasted.
This compares to a $17.5 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This is the final quarter for the earnout associated with this transaction.
This payment will be made in the second quarter.
We have been very satisfied with the performance of Multi Phase Meters over the last 2 years as revenue has grown over 60% and the global opportunities to include Multi Phase Meters in subsea equipment purchases has increased.
Subsea Technologies operating profit was $210 million in the fourth quarter with an operating margin of 15.1%.
This quarterly result includes $23 million of recognized revenue and operating profit associated with an adjustment for Angolan withholding taxes which our customer is contractually obligated to pay.
Excluding this from our operational results our Subsea Technologies margin was 13.6% in the quarter consistent with our expectations.
This benefit consequently increased our tax expense by $22 million.
This adjusted quarterly result is more indicative of the operational performance we expect while at the same time recognizing that we need to effectively manage all the risks and opportunities inherent in our large portfolio.
Additionally the actions that John mentioned that we have taken to reduce cost and improve operational performance combined with the headcount reductions that will occur in the fourth -- first quarter should provide a more sustainable level of performance.
Surface Technologies generated operating profit of $68 million with a margin of 13.9%.
Operating profit increased 5% from the prior year quarter but declined 9% sequentially.
Surface wellhead sales were at record levels in the quarter but carried a less favorable margin mix than in the third quarter.
Fluid Control operating income and margins were down sequentially as North America slowed due to our customer's activity.
Backlog for Fluid Control has shown no improvement in 2013 due to the lack of demand for new capital equipment in the North American market.
Our sales have largely been limited to repair and replacement work.
Completion services activity saw only modest increases from the third quarter as Canada activity has progressed slower than anticipated.
Orders for Surface Technology for the quarter were $622 million.
This record level of orders is driven by our international surface wellhead business that continues to see strong activity in the Middle East and Europe.
Backlog now stands at $742 million for this segment.
Energy Infrastructure generated fourth quarter operating profit of $23 million with a margin of 13.1%.
Now for the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $13.1 million.
Other income and expense net reflects expense of $10 million.
This includes the $11.1 million charge associated with the acquisition of Multi Phase Meters as their performance was again better than expected but was offset by favorable foreign exchange variances and changes in the LIFO inventory costs.
Our fourth quarter tax rate was 33.7%.
The rate excluding the effect of the Angolan withholding tax adjustment was 25.6%.
For the full year our tax rate was 29.8%.
Excluding that Angola tax adjustment the annual tax rate was 26.7%.
Capital spending for this quarter was $77 million primarily directed towards Subsea Technologies infrastructure and service asset investments.
For full year our capital spending was $314 million.
We repurchased 884 million shares of stock in the fourth quarter at an average price of $51.38 per share.
For the full year we repurchased approximately 2.3 million shares at an average cost of $51.57.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had net debt of $973 million.
It was comprised of $399 million of cash and $1.4 billion of debt.
So in summary for 2013 we earned $2.10 per diluted share on revenue of $7.1 billion and 18% year-over-year increase in earnings and a 16% increase on revenue.
Subsea Technologies revenue was $4.7 billion an increase of 18% with adjusted margins of 11.2%.
Surface Technologies revenue was $1.8 billion an increase of 13% with margins of 14.2%.
And Energy Infrastructure revenue was $617 million an increase of 8% with margins of 12%.
Looking at 2014 our earnings per share guidance for 2014 is in the range of $2.55 to $2.75 an increase between 21% and 31% year-over-year.
This guidance includes an estimate of $21 million for settlement charges associated with the derisking of our defined benefit plan that we will incur primarily in the fourth quarter.
In Subsea Technologies we expect revenue to exceed $5 billion with our backlog conversion rate slowing to approximately 50% as we have a greater number of multiyear awards in our backlog.
We do expect the conversion rate to increase in 2015 and subsequently we will see revenue grow at a higher rate than 2014 as we execute backlog and grow our services business.
As John mentioned we forecast subsea awards of at least $5 billion in 2014 and this will keep our book-to-bill ratio close to 1.
As we have seen in Subsea Technologies in prior years we anticipate a sequential revenue and margin decline in the first quarter of 2014.
The overall revenue decline should be very similar to what we experienced in 2013.
As we typically see each year weather affects our subsea services business and our supply chain activity decreases.
The sequential revenue decline for the quarter also includes the effect of 2 of our well intervention stacks going through their 5-year recertification process.
We will incur cost associated with this process along with absorbing the fixed cost related to these stacks while they are inactive.
Additionally we'll incur severance charges in the first quarter related to the reduction of permanent employees in the Eastern Region as part of the changes we discussed.
As a result our EBIT margin performance in the first quarter will be further impacted by these actions.
We anticipate these items will affect earnings in total in a range of $30 million to $35 million in the first quarter.
Subsea margins should see sequential quarterly improvement beginning in the second quarter.
For the full year we anticipate margins should average 13% to 14%.
Moving on to our Surface Technologies segment.
In the surface well -- in surface wellhead with our large international backlog and a healthy international rig count we expect to have another strong year of sales in North America.
Rig count looks to remain relatively flat and has kept our expectations for 2014 modest.
In Fluid Control we expect our repair and replacement activity to remain healthy.
We are however forecasting another year of minimal sales associated with fleet replacement or expansion.
Overall we estimate full year Surface Technologies margins to be stronger than 2013 on the strength of the international surface wellhead business.
In Energy Infrastructure revenue growth could approach double digits in 2014 on improved performance in our loading system and measurement solutions businesses.
Margins for this segment are likely to improve over 2013.
We expect a decline in both revenue and margins in the first quarter for Energy Infrastructure with better activities in the second half of the year.
Regarding corporate items we expect corporate expense to average approximately $15 million per quarter in 2014.
We expect other expense net to average $19 million per quarter in 2014 subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
Included in our full year estimates is $21 million of higher pension expense associated with plans to derisk our defined benefit plan.
Our fourth quarter expense will include the majority of this charge.
We expect our interest expense to average $8 million per quarter.
We anticipate our 2014 tax rate to range between 30% and 32% for the full year.
We expect capital spending in 2014 to be approximately $400 million.
The majority of our 2014 capital spending will again be directed towards subsea including increased spending related to growth of our service offering -- service -- subsea service offerings.
We are now reaching payment milestones on many of our projects which are improving our free cash flow position.
This will continue as we improve our execution on a greater number of projects.
In conclusion we expect Subsea Technologies revenue to exceed $5 billion and continue to see operating margins expand sequentially beginning in the second quarter.
With our current backlog and the expectation of at least $5 billion of inbound in 2014 Subsea Technologies revenue should see higher revenue growth rates in 2014 and continued subsea margin expansions from pricing effective execution and improved cost structure.
Our Surface Technologies business will also grow as our strong international presence should continue to deliver solid performance.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Doug Becker from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess as we start dissecting the subsea margins Maryann maybe you could give us a little reconciliation between the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
What really drove the margin improvement? And what gives the confidence around sustainability? Yes sure.
So as you know in the third quarter we did have the benefit going forward into the fourth quarter of some of the first round of headcount reductions that we took.
We were expecting our subsea services business to continue to perform well in the fourth quarter and it did.
And again our mix of our lower margin projects as we complete those improved in the fourth quarter as well.
As we think about why the margins should continue to improve over the second third and fourth quarter of next -- or excuse me this year and again we are looking at sequential improvement each quarter post the first quarter.
The lion's share of those lower margin projects that we've talked about are past us.
We are seeing growth in the subsea services business.
We will have the benefit of both rounds of headcount reductions that we have discussed previously in the Eastern Region: one that took place in September the other that took place in December.
And as John talked about we are in the final stages of completing around permanent headcount reductions that will happen in the first quarter.
So we'll get the benefit of all of those things happening beginning really in the second quarter of 2014.
Research Division</strong> So is the company in a position to exit 2014 or fourth quarter 2014 above mid-teens margins in subsea? Yes.
So when we look at the margin progression we expect by the second quarter to be in the teens and then in the back half of the year third and fourth quarter we'll be in the 15-ish range.
Research Division</strong> Okay makes sense.
And then John maybe if you could just address a lot of the concerns about slowing subsea tree order growth just your thoughts on that just generally.
But then as we think maybe a little bit longer term about the 5-year outlook what type of levers does FMC have to really continue the growth that you've seen in the past? Great.
Thank you Doug.
With regard to the near-term industry outlook we -- I think you have to look at it by backing out Petrobras.
So there were 551 trees ordered in 2013 that came after 400-plus in 2012.
So you had 2 years of back-to-back 30-plus percent increase in industry tree awards.
But in 2013 180 of those trees were for Petrobras for 4-year requirements so you got to take that out.
When you take that out we're estimating that the tree count for 2014 excluding Petrobras could be in the 400 range.
So you're talking about another very strong year of tree awards.
And this is backed up by the number of deepwater projects particularly in West Africa they're scheduled to be awarded; the strength in the Gulf of Mexico and new projects in Asia-Pacific.
And so they support tree awards in 2014 again excluding Petrobras as strong if not stronger than what we saw in the record year 2013.
So that gives us confidence that in the near term the industry tree awards will hold up pretty well.
Now there's obviously -- we know that the operators are under a lot of pressure in terms of capital allocation and improving earnings.
What they're not doing though is they're looking at their large portfolio of undeveloped discoveries and they've had a lot of deepwater discovery success.
And they're not backing off of that.
Instead they're looking at that portfolio how can we improve the returns? And a lot of our conversations with our customers is not about reducing their development cost.
It's how can they improve the returns and how can FMC help them.
And one of the ways of course we can help them do that is through standardization.
So that's what gives us quite a bit of confidence that looking at 2014 we're going to have another healthy year of tree inbound.
Now your second question about the 5-year outlook for FTI in terms of growth obviously we're going to -- our plan is to hold on to our leadership position and we'll benefit by the strength going forward.
But in the out-years we'll be able to continue to grow with the implementation of our subsea growth platforms particularly subsea processing.
There's a number of subsea processing awards that should materialize in the 5-year time frame that you described.
That'll add to FTI's growth.
And then we're very encouraged I mentioned this in my prepared remarks about subsea services.
We expect subsea services growth to kick in during that 5-year period.
So when you look at FMC 5 years out we're going to hold our leadership position.
Even if the industry growth of unconventional equipment is relatively modest we'll get that growth plus the growth from our new growth platforms.
And that's what will sustain above-industry growth for FTI over the next 5 years.
Our next question is from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Maryann or John just as far as reconciling the new guidance on average margins for subsea and given your answer to the question regarding first quarter it seems like margins in subsea may be frankly high-single digits 1Q.
And I'm guessing this severance charge that you guys are taking in the Eastern Region is that new as it relates to our guidance outlook? And is that really the kind of the 100 basis point difference here between the guidance ranges as we think about the margin for full year '14? Bill Maryann.
So first yes you're right.
We will look at sort of low-double digit in the first quarter and then again sequentially seeing us ramp up each quarter after that.
The severance charge is in the first quarter but it is not 100 basis points.
As we talk about we've got a lot of things that we continue to focus on as it relates to those margins first of all being the fact that our margins and backlog have continued to grow as we talked about.
And clearly our performance in the fourth quarter has demonstrated that as we execute properly.
But the other impact occurring in the first quarter is we now have 2 stacks that are going through their 5-year certification.
You may remember we had one stack first quarter of last year.
So all of the costs associated with that and there'll be added service essentially for the lion's share of the quarter.
And that's what causes really -- we have a slower seasonal impact from the services business and then those 2 units down for the better part of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So Maryann just so I'm clear so if we think about the 14% to 15% average subsea margin for '14 that you guys had thought prior to this call and the 13% to 14% the 2 differences are the severance charges and this -- the higher well intervention cost that we're going to incur in 1Q? Yes Bill we certainly knew we had well intervention costs in our forecast.
We are about 2 quarters behind if you will as you know in the third quarter.
And we did really well as we expected in the fourth quarter.
And we think we're going to be able to continue to maintain that level of performance and again improve based on our performance in that quarter.
So as you talk about 14% to 15% versus sort of the 13% to 14% we're guiding now we obviously feel very confident in that 13% to 14% given where we have been given the actions that we have taken both in September December and those that we will take in the first quarter along with the good margins and backlog and our execution improvement.
Bill this is John.
Let me add and Maryann made a point but I think it's very important we are delighted that we saw margin and backlog grow again in the fourth quarter.
The margins and backlog easily support subsea margins going forward in the mid-teens in the 15% plus range.
Our issue is about -- in addition to the severance charges -- our issue is around our ability to execute.
We're pleased that we -- the actions that we took after the third quarter resulted in improved execution.
That wasn't perfect execution but it was in the range that we expect.
What we're working hard at is making sure that execution performance is sustainable.
And it just seems reasonable that we not get too far ahead of ourselves in terms of the pace of execution improvement going forward.
We're very confident -- actually after the steps that we took in the fourth quarter we're even more confident that we're going to be able to get these execution improvements on a sustainable [ph] -- although it just made sense that we not get too ahead of ourselves in terms of the pace at which we make these execution improvements and particularly in light that we'll be operating at a level we've never operated before.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And just one follow-up.
Maryann you offered up I guess just generalities around '15 subsea top line.
You talked specifically about conversion this year out of backlog being 50%.
I think that historically is right around 60% for the company.
What do we think about it in '15? I mean do we split the difference between the 2? Or can we see conversion from backlog be as high as 60% in '15? Yes.
Bill tough question sitting here today.
It will all depend on sort of how that backlog comes in.
But we would expect to see it move closer to where we have been in the past to the 60%.
As you know what's causing the 50% kind of conversion rate now is the large pre-salt tree award and the manifold award as well as the long tail on Egina.
So we would expect to progress closer to the 60%.
Sitting here today a little bit difficult for me to project not knowing exactly how the inbound is going to come in.
But we would expect to be well above 50% in 2015.
Our next question is from Thomas Curran from FBR Capital.
Research Division</strong> Maybe shifting gears first to the surface side.
Could you share some of the key assumptions for surface in North America at the low and high end for that division of your guidance? Well first Tom we're assuming that surface North America activity is essentially going to be flat.
So the improvement is largely going to come from our international business which where we -- as I mentioned in my remarks is a record backlog.
I'll let Maryann talk about the range in surface what would drive either end of that.
But basically for North America we're assuming the market is largely flat.
Yes so as I mentioned in my comments we clearly expect to see full year average Surface Technologies margins exceed where they were in 2013.
So we're in the range of 14.2% full year.
We would expect based on the strength of the international segment to see growth over this year.
We'll see that a little more back-end loaded than it is front-end loaded but we expect to see improvement in the first half versus the back half -- in the first half of 2014 versus the back half of 2013.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just so I'm clear though when you say the expectation for -- on toward [ph] the market is flat do you mean in terms of demand on an average annual basis or from here forward from end of 2013 forward? No we would expect to see improvement in the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got you.
So that is for North America okay.
Turning back to subsea John how would you expect the award flow to come in over the course of 2014? You've spoken to that previously in your annual outlook.
Some years it's been evenly distributed; others it's been heavily front or back-end loaded.
What would you expect for 2014? I'd say it's more even.
For the whole industry the big -- the largest subsea award ever is Total's Kaombo project.
And that could move all over the place.
So wherever that lands will drive the whole industry.
But looking at FMC's inbound and our projections I would say it's more even.
A lot of our inbound I referenced the $5-plus billion let's talk about where that will come from.
It'll come first and foremost from our partners.
These are projects that we know that we're going ahead.
We know that we're going to participate and they're pretty evenly distributed throughout the year.
Second is from subsea services which we expect to continue to grow.
That's evenly distributed except for the first quarter.
Other than the first quarter its pretty evenly distributed throughout the year.
And then the balance of the inbound will come from targeted projects that are being tendered.
And I think even those are fairly evenly distributed.
So not front end not back end probably a little bit more evenly distributed.
But for the industry depends on some of these the timing of the big West Africa projects.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then on the subsea processing front how about an update on 3 topics Marlim the expected subsea processing award slate for this year and then the latest on bids outstanding for the helico-axial multiphase pump? Okay.
With regard to Marlim essentially no charge.
Marlim continues to perform as expected no issue there.
I think the issue is really just Petrobras which I don't have a lot of insights in.
But it must be very complex for them.
They've got to evaluate how to apply this technology.
They've got -- I'm sure they have issues over their priorities for capital allocation and it's just taking a long time obviously for them to complete their evaluations to how they want to apply this new technology.
There's no question that they need it in order to boost production in their legacy fields.
But really no change from what we reported before.
It's -- still under evaluation by Petrobras.
Regarding the subsea processing award outlook for 2014 there's about 9 projects that are named.
Not all of those projects are equipment projects about 5 or 6 are equipment projects.
And we expect at least some if not all of those to go ahead.
Most of them are boosting.
And then for FMC and our helico-axial pump we have one tender outstanding and there'll be more opportunities in 2014 on the projects that I referenced for us to -- which we fully expect to be qualified to participate in additional tenders in 2014.
Our next question is from Robin Shoemaker from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> John I wanted to ask here again about the $5 billion of revenue this year and you indicated 50% outflow backlog.
So with $3 billion coming out of backlog $2 billion roughly from customer support book and turn type of activity.
So is there anything that you could comment on there in terms of the trends that you see in customer support book and turn? Is there any notable upturn or anything that's changed about that part of your revenue stream? Well first of all Robin the $3 billion out of backlog that's right.
We normally look at subsea services as about $1.5 billion and then about $0.5 billion come from book and turn equipment not services and that's sort of been our historical amount.
So back to your question the $1.5 billion of subsea services each year that has grown which you'd expect it to grow because there's more installation and so forth.
And with our 3 intervention stacks fully utilized other than the first quarter when they'll be down for this recertification all that at least historically has been contributing to year-over-year growth in subsea service.
And that's the $1.5 billion represents some growth from where we were in 2013.
And I'm sure there's -- we'd -- well I'm not sure.
I know that that number will continue to grow year-over-year not only as the installed base and the normal growth in installation services.
But as we continue to offer new services to our Light Well Intervention stacks and other services that we're offering that number is going to continue to grow and it will grow faster than the equipment growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I see.
Okay.
My other question then about -- you mentioned in earlier some of what you're hearing from your customers who -- your frame agreement alliance partners some of whom have issued comments here lately about scaling back of CapEx and lowering production targets in order to improve returns.
And you commented that you didn't see too much impact on subsea.
Is there any part of your business in the -- in this either in surface or Energy Infrastructure where you expect to see some of the impact of that? No we haven't seen any impact in the non-businesses [ph].
I wanted to be clear though on the subsea side.
There's no question that the operators are under pressure and we're seeing the impact of it.
The impact though is not so much dramatic reductions in CapEx as it is attempts to work -- change their approach with regard to their development plans so they can improve their returns.
That's the focus that we're seeing from the operators.
I don't want to leave you with the impression that we're not seeing any impact.
We're seeing an impact it's just that it's manifesting itself in the operators reaching out to us to help them improve their returns and one of the best ways to do that is to move towards more standards where you can -- we can improve the first oil date you can reduce cost.
So that's the reaction that we're getting.
But they're under -- clearly they're under pressure to have more discipline on returns and capital allocation.
Research Division</strong> Well just on that point does it -- do you think it impacts their appetite for frontier kind of technologies including some of the more ambitious aspects of subsea processing that that might be a lesser priority now? I haven't seen any evidence of that.
I mean you can argue just the opposite that it's this new technology that can boost reservoir recovery rates.
So I mean if you just look at it economically I mean you're going to get better returns if you can improve your reservoir recovery.
And that's exactly what subsea processing and some of this intervention technology does.
So it should work just the opposite that they would be more interested in implementing this new technology because it improves their returns and reduces their CapEx.
So I'm not sure that it doesn't drive them more towards implementing this new technology.
Our next question is from Brad Handler from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wasn't necessarily going to ask this but just to follow on with Robin's line of questioning and your thoughts.
Are there some timing implications though if your customers are reaching out to try to do something different? It's easy for us to conclude that there might be a longer digestion a longer processing time if they are thinking along different lines your customers.
Yes and we've seen some examples of that.
Mad Dog is a good example of that.
We expected Mad Dog inbound early 2013.
And BP had to rework their plans and now we believe Mad Dog could be awarded in 2014.
And so yes I think that's reasonable to assume there would be some delays.
But it hasn't been wholesale.
I mean there's been more awards happen and I think Total Kaombo was a good example.
Here's a very large award that by West Africa standards is moving at a pretty normal clip.
So I think there have been those exceptions of timing delays as these alternatives are reworked but it hasn't been a wholesale delay in projects that I've seen so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right fair enough.
If I may now turn just to a couple of other questions which I was going to hit on away from subsea actually.
Maybe Maryann could you help us understand the negative mix in the fourth quarter in surface and international that you mentioned? And how do you calibrate the issue -- with that how that recurs if that recurs? Yes sure.
So as we look to kind of the fourth quarter performance we saw slowing clearly in North America really by customer activities.
As we look out over the forecast in the next couple of quarters the international market as I mentioned is continuing to grow.
And we certainly are not anticipating a repeat of that.
The repair and replacement business has been strong and we certainly expect to see that continue over the next couple of quarters.
So it was really a mix issue in our business in the fourth quarter.
We don't expect it to repeat as I mentioned so -- and we are expecting kind of that first half of 2014 to look better than the back half of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Oh I think I -- maybe I misunderstood.
So just in other words I thought it was a negative mix shift within the international wellhead segment but you -- that's not what you're saying.
You're saying it was negative in North America looking forward.
No no no.
It was our North America business our North America surface wellhead and Fluid Control.
Research Division</strong> I see I see.
And just very quickly I noticed your tax rate guidance is I think pretty meaningfully above where it has been.
Is there something driving that? And is that -- is something north of 30% what we might think of as the new norm? Well for 2014 as we look at our earnings mix we've got a different mix of earnings that we had in 2013.
You may remember us also talking about in 2013 we were receiving the benefit of some work that we were doing with respect to restructuring in our European region.
And there's been some tax law changes.
So we'll lose a little bit of that benefit but it's largely mix-driven this year.
We've got quite a bit of revenue coming through from Egina which is Nigeria.
So our mix looks different this year than it did in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I guess just going forward if the Gulf of Mexico starts to become a bit larger I suppose that might push you to a little bit of a higher mix again higher tax rate mix again? That's correct.
And we are expecting that mix to be greater in 2014 than we have seen in '13.
So you're absolutely correct Brad.
Our next question is from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question I have I just wanted to get a little bit more clarity on the dynamic around the guidance for 2014 because I think if you strip out the pension and the severance from -- I think your pension and severance are included in that $2.55 to $2.75 guidance.
Do I understand that correctly? You understand that correctly Kurt.
Both the pension and the severance charge is included in the $2.55 to $2.75 correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we wanted to just focus on the operational dynamics of what's going on at FMC Maryann and you took the pension and that severance out of the equation what would that equate to in terms of the guidance range? Yes that's roughly $0.08 to $0.09 between the pension charge and the severance charge in total.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay great.
And then the -- I'm sorry? Oh no it's okay.
I was just going to say when we think about that just for the sake of clarity we will incur the severance cost largely in the first quarter.
The lion's share or the majority of that pension expense will be in the fourth quarter just as you're trying to calibrate that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right okay great.
And then John you mentioned about $1.5 billion in aftermarket -- service/aftermarket I guess is how we would phrase it and then another $500 million in book and turn.
Is that the -- was that the numbers for 2013? Or is that kind of a run rate you would expect to achieve in 2014? The $1.5 billion in aftermarket or services is higher than what we had in 2013 but it's one we should expect because our activity levels are higher so we would expect that to grow and it is higher the $1.5 billion that I mentioned.
And the book and turn is just a little bit higher than what we normally see and what we saw in 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then the I guess the other follow-up I would have for -- is on the surface side.
I know Maryann you said that 2014 would be higher than 2013.
If I happen to recall correctly I think the prior guidance for surface margins in 2014 I think was -- wasn't it around 15% to 16% or something like that? So how do we calibrate the higher than '14 relative to maybe that 15% to 16% range provided in the past? So you have a good memory Kurt.
Yes you're correct.
That is a reasonable range to think about for Surface Technologies for 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> So that hasn't changed your guide point on surface margin then really hasn't changed? That's correct.
Our next question is from Jim Wicklund from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You guys have always been terribly efficient in most everything that you do and so having headcount reductions in September December and again now is this related to the completion of CLOV and Laggan? Is this a result of projects being over? Or is this just an efficiency push to make the Eastern Region more streamlined? Jim it's the latter.
This is I mentioned in my prepared remarks it's staff and support.
We're not taking anybody out that we need for capacity for project load.
We're -- this is a leaning out of the organization and so it's staff and support to make it more efficient.
Research Division</strong> Do we have a number on the headcount an approximation about how many people? Well we haven't really given much of one -- the entire reductions including the ones we took last year and the ones we intend to take in the first quarter is something less than 10% for the entire region.
So order of magnitude it's something like that.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And CLOV and Laggan can you give us an update? Are they done now? Yes Laggan-Tormore is -- all the equipment is completely shipped.
It's just some [indiscernible] Documentation that's done.
And CLOV is mostly -- almost done.
I think it's in the high 80% just complete.
The only thing that remains is the final assembly and test in Angola.
So almost done -- completely done in Laggan-Tormore almost done on CLOV.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on those.
Maryann let me ask you a question if I could.
Your subsea intervention stack could you give us an approximation as to what one of those stacks generates in terms of revenues for a year for you guys? I know they're JVs but how much revenue it generates for you a year? So let me try this Jim.
We -- the 3 stacks that we have operating now are actually operating through the Eastern Region.
We don't have a stack operating through the JV as of yet so just to be specific when we talk about the addition [ph] of JV.
Yes no no it's okay.
So those 3 stacks have been operating in the Eastern Region actually one started back in 2006.
And we have not quantified the amount of revenue associated with those.
To kind of calibrate for you the impact in the first quarter I talked about it in the range of $30 million to $35 million.
That included the cost of the recertification for the stack if you will and then covering all the cost i.e.
the loss margin as well as the restructuring.
And I'll tell you the lion's share of that I think 2/3 if you will of that estimate is really focused on the impact from those 2 intervention stacks being down if that helps you.
Our next question is from Marshall Adkins from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maryann could you give us a little more color on the Angola accounting issue? And it sounded a little like that may happen again in the future.
Is that not right? Sure happy to do that for you.
So as it relates to this particular issue we do not have an obligation to pay the tax.
The obligation is actually the customer's.
So this $23 million is actually really a catch-up for services against all of the prior not all but the majority of the prior revenues on a particular contract.
So it is part of the new Angolan law.
And yes it is possible that going forward we would have a similar situation.
But if the law is applied correctly then obviously we would be obligated to pay the tax.
In this particular situation we are not so that's why you see the benefit if you will in the segment and then it is offset in the tax piece.
Right now we do not have a good estimate in terms of our full year forecast as to how that might shake out depending on how other customers might go forward with that.
But yes there is clearly possibility that we will see charges going forward.
It would obviously not be of that magnitude given that that particular -- this particular issue was a catch-up if you will.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay that's helpful.
John one I have for you is on the pump quarters.
Are you seeing any light at the end of the tunnel there for the fracturing side? Or is it mostly just kind of Chiksan replacement parts and stuff like that? Well I would say no light at the end of the tunnel but no we have not seen any capital equipment orders.
I think the pressure pumpers are not -- they're going to be loathe to say that they're increasing their fleet.
So I don't think you're going to get that indication.
Even if we do get some CapEx orders it's probably not going to get advertised.
And so...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's my question.
Yes so what we're -- yes we're not seeing any CapEx requirements and we're not planning for any CapEx requirements in 2014.
Having said that the replacement parts particularly with the increase in frac stages and well counts and that kind of stuff has held up pretty good all things considered.
But no we're not counting on any capital.
Eventually this stuff wears out and they'll have to order some CapEx but it's not in our 2014 plans.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I was thinking the Chiksan business ought to be pretty healthy and probably steady-state from here maybe even improving just because it is kind of a replacement cycle part right? Right.
Our next question is from Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the certification question could you -- did you say that it's a 5-year certification requirement for the intervention stacks? Yes and 2 of our stacks will be recertified in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Now is it an annual requirement as well that we may see every year some downtime on them and some cost issues associated? No? Okay.
No.
As part of the recertification there's always a risk of downtime although our equipment has had extremely good uptime in the years we've been running it.
But no certification other than the 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I know we can do it ourselves too but just if you could provide guidance on what will be the margin guidance for subsea if we had excluded severance from that.
We have not called out specifically the total amount of severance.
So when we think about the $30 million to $35 million that I'm talking about in the first quarter as I mentioned earlier about 2/3 of that really is associated with the stack okay? Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then just on Canada what's the outlook for the year as a whole? Do you see some improvement coming in there? Yes our fourth quarter performance in Canada well actually for the whole year was pretty weak.
So we've got some improvement baked in for Canada in 2014.
Our next question is from Scott Gruber from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All my questions have been answered.
And our final question is from Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on your comment about the tree orders in '14 and then '15.
The big West Africa projects how much could that move around I guess the pacing of inbound orders through the year? You kind of said maybe evenly split across the year.
Just trying to get a feel for if that evenly split includes some assumption about some of these bigger orders or if that is kind of outside of that commentary.
Yes the even distribution of ours I was talking more about the ones FMC is focused on.
In terms of the industry the big one out there is Total's Kaombo project 66 trees.
Right now when you look at the pace of the tender it can very well be awarded this year.
And it's probably just because it's West Africa we ought to assume that it's towards the back half of the year.
So that's the big one.
But if it moves out if it were to move out in 2014 would have a material effect on the total awards driven.
But there's a couple of other West Africa projects Eni 15/06 ENI's project in Ghana.
These are big West Africa projects that are likely to be in the second half of the year.
And those will be the ones if they moved out would have a pretty big impact on the industry's award total for '14.
And I'll turn it back over to you Brad for any final remarks.
This concludes our fourth quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our first quarter 2014 conference call on April 23 at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
John you may end this call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the FMC Technologies First Quarter Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is Christine and I'll be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Alexander.
Mr.
Brad Alexander you may begin.
Thank you Christine.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our first quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today is Maryann Seaman our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll discuss highlights from the quarter.
Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we’ll open up the call for your questions.
Earnings were $0.57 per diluted share for the quarter total company quarterly revenue was $1.8 billion and operating profit was $245 million.
Subsea Technologies recorded a strong level of inbound orders in the quarter totaling $1.9 billion which included 16 subsea trees.
Segment backlog now stands at $6.8 billion.
Revenue for the quarter in Subsea Technologies was $1.2 billion an increase of 10% over the prior year quarter.
As projected our subsea margins were down sequentially but increased from the first quarter of 2013.
We expect this trend of improving margins to continue through the remainder of the year as both our execution and margins and backlog continue to improve.
Our subsea inbound included the Jangkrik Subsea System Award in Indonesia for ENI.
The total value of this award could exceed $700 million.
We also recorded the inbound for BP’s Shah Deniz projects in Azerbaijan late in the quarter.
The Shah Deniz award includes four subsea manifolds associated controls and connection equipment and is valued to more than $300 million.
We remain confident and our expectation of receiving more than $5 billion of subsea awards in 2014 and subsea order exceeding our subsea revenue.
Given our company’s exposure to deepwater I want to address the outlook for future subsea activity and growth.
Clearly the pressure to improve returns and demonstrate more capital discipline has driven the E&amp;P companies to look at their development plans differently.
What is not different is their commitment to developing their extensive deepwater opportunities.
The recent as well as historical discovery success in deepwater explains why deepwater development is so important.
Over the past six years more than half of new reserve discoveries were in deepwater and last year nine of the 10 largest discoveries were in deepwater.
Today deepwater exploration success has led to a record inventory of undeveloped deepwater discoveries.
Half of new oil production is expected to come from deepwater.
For many IOC’s certain large independence and NOC’s like Statoil and Petrobras more than 50% of their new production will come from deepwater.
The focus now is to improve the returns associated with developing and producing these discovered reserves.
I believe there is real confidence that the returns can be improved and it's being demonstrated by the continued strong outlook for deepwater development activity.
We believe three awards excluding Petrobras will increase year-over-year.
And the announcement of several major project – Subsea project awards early this year including the industries record largest Subsea award also supports the confidence.
The need to improve of capital returns on these deepwater projects has created an opportunity for our company to provide standardized solutions in both lower development costs and accelerate first oil production.
Our success in standardization has helped several of our partners achieve industry leading returns on the most challenging deepwater projects.
We expect more operators to adopt a similar approach to their field development.
Our technology and experience in improving operator returns over the life of the field is what drives our Subsea processing and services technology development.
These new technologies not only reduce costs but improve production and recovery rates all of which contribute to improve returns.
Now let me return to the results for the quarter.
Subsea services activity delivered positive results despite the seasonal slowdown in the North Sea and two of our light well intervention stacks being out of the service while receiving their five-year recertification.
We experienced strong sales in the first quarter driven by activity in all the basins particularly the Gulf of Mexico.
We expect growth in subsea service revenue to outpace our traditional subsea project businesses.
The significant growth in Subsea awards over the past two years has raised Subsea supply our backlogs to record levels and continues to support a positive pricing environment.
2014 as poised to be another strong year for the subsea industry.
West Africa should be stronger year-over-year while other regions including the Gulf of Mexico the North Sea and Asia-Pacific remain at solid levels.
Early indications are that the market in 2015 should remain strong as operators continue to focus on developing their deepwater portfolios.
Our Surface Technologies segment reported solid results with both strong orders and revenue in the first quarter.
Our international surface wellhead business continued to deliver solid performance and this included a significant order from Pemex.
North America orders increased in the quarter fluid control was able to convert some of these orders into revenue as operators restock their depleted inventories.
This activity positively impacted the segment margins.
Looking forward the subsea market remains healthy as recent Subsea awards early in the year demonstrated.
The significant portfolios of deepwater opportunities we believe operators will continue to develop these discoveries.
Our technologies capacity and experience position us to help our clients to improve deepwater returns through lowering cost improving production recovery rates and reducing lead times.
Margin in our subsea backlog have been improving for the last two years and with industry capacity type we expect this to continue throughout 2014.
In Surface Technologies we see improving results in the North American market while we continue to expect our international surface wellhead business to perform at record levels.
Overall we believe we positioned ourselves to deliver better results from all of our businesses and continue to be a leader in the markets we serve.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details for the quarter Thanks John Our operations performed well in the first quarter Subsea Technologies operating profit was a $142 million in the quarter with the margin of a 11.8% Subsea Technologies operating margins improved 290 basis points year-over-year with operating profit increasing 45%.
Sequentially margins were down as forecasted this is due in part to the recertification of two Light Well Intervention stack which takes a net of operation and the seasonal impact of the North Sea service work.
As expected both stacks returned to service in the second quarter.
The year-over-year operating profit improvement reflects better margin projects rolling from our backlog and increased service activity in the Gulf of Mexico is the timing of activity in this region was favorable.
It also reflects the progress made toward overall improved execution and the cost reductions that resulted from lower headcount in the Eastern regions.
Headcount reductions that occurred in our Eastern region resulted in severance charges as we indicated what happened last quarter we should benefit from these actions through the reminder of the year and see quarterly margin improvement in the next three quarters.
Moving to our Surface Technology results Surface Technology operating profit for the first quarter was $88 million a 53% increase from the prior year quarter margins in the quarter were 18.3%.
North American Fluid Control orders was stronger than we initially anticipated the improved sales related to repair and replacement as operators restock their inventories this activity was weighted towards the back half of the quarter.
Our international Surface wellhead business continue to perform well as activity grew year-over-year our backlog growth supports the strong revenue performance that we expect to continue through the year.
We expect Surface Technologies second quarter margins to decline sequentially due to our Canadian exposure.
Third quarter margins are expected to recover.
The sustainability of Fluid Control activity we experienced in the quarter is difficult to gauge but land activity growth has provided us with greater confidence of delivering full year segment margins around 16% which was the high end of our previous full year guidance range.
Orders for Surface Technologies for the quarter were $527 million as both Surface wellhead and Fluid Control delivered year-over-year growth.
Backlog exiting the quarter stands at a record $790 million for this segment this supports our continued confidence in our full year revenue and operating income growth expectations.
Energy Infrastructure operating income for the first quarter was $16 million with the margin of 10.7%.
This was primarily due to our measurement solutions and loading system businesses.
We recently announced our intent to divest our material handling business from the energy infrastructure segment we expect this transaction to be completed in the second quarter.
We have excluded estimated earnings from the business as well as the anticipated gain from its sale in our full year earnings guidance.
Let me turn to the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $14.9 million we expect this expense to be approximately $15 million for quarter throughout 2014 other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $19.7 million.
We expect this to average $18 million to $20 million per quarter in 2014 subject to foreign currency fluctuation included in our full year estimates and guidance is expense of $21 million or $0.06 per share associated with the pension plan de-risking the majority of which will be incurred in the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter tax rate was 33.2% which reflects a different mix of earning than we previously expected.
We now anticipate our 2013 tax rate to be between 32% and 34% for the full year.
Capital spending this quarter was $92 million primarily directed toward Subsea Technologies expansion initiative.
We expect capital spending in 2014 to be approximately $400 million.
At the end of the first quarter we had net debt of $1.1 billion comprised to $290 million of cash and $1.4 million of debt.
We averaged 237.8 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter and we repurchased 899 000 shares of stock during the quarter at an average cost of $50.98 per share.
So in summary subsea margins in the quarter were improved from last year we are executing better and the orders we are converting have better margins.
We are also seeing the benefits of our cost reduction initiatives.
First quarters subsea margins for Surface Technologies was strong as our international surface wellhead business continues to perform well and we saw sales activity in North American Fluid control increased in the later part of the quarter.
Looking forward our guidance range of $2.55 to $2.75 excludes the material handling business from our energy infrastructure segment going forward and the anticipated gain we expect to recognize associated with the sale.
This range also includes the cost associated with our pension de-risking.
We are confident that our subsea revenue and orders will exceed $5 billion in 2014.
We continue to expect subsea margins to improve as we progress through the year and continue to forecast Subsea Technologies margins to average between 13% and 14% for the full year.
Surface Technologies margins should be around 16% the top end of our previous guidance for 2014 and full year North America activity should come in near the high end of our previous expectation.
So with the solid start to the year we have increased confidence in our ability to deliver these full year results.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Robin Shoemaker from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning Robin.
I wanted to start with Surface and the restocking that you sited that occurred making the quarter which clearly help that we saw.
Is that a early sign of recovering in other words it has been quite impressed so does it continue – do you continue to see that phenomena in the second quarter and with the ongoing increase in the rig count and how would you expect that to play out if it is a restocking when would they be restocked I guess.
Well Robin it’s certainly a good sign I’m not sure yet if it’s an early sign.
Our fluid control business is one step back in the supply chain.
And so you need to be a little bit careful about how the pressure pumpers are going to flow the orders through.
But it’s certainly a good sign I’m not sure yet if it’s an early sign what we want to do is see a couple of more months a couple of more quarters with that level of activity exist.
And then I think we would be in a position to call it an early sign and realized it sustainable.
But right now well I think it’s just a good sign not necessarily an early sign we are encouraged by the pressure pumpers optimism no question about that.
We just want to make sure but that’s materializing in a steady stream of high level activity to fluid control.
So its sounds like the 16% the upper level that you had guided or was the effort of your guidance that looks like an achievable number for this year based on what you’re seeing.
Absolutely.
Yes okay.
And on the – just wanted to go back to the issue was discussed at the beginning of year-on-year on your call about the backlog conversion in subsea this year.
Do you still expected to be lower than it normally as at around the 50% level for 2014? Yes we do.
Historically it’s been around 60% we have been pretty consistent in saying would be lower than that in 2014 primarily driven by the multiyear Petrobras order which doesn’t flow through the P&amp;L in a year or year and half a close over four years.
So yes more in the 50% range for 2014 but Deniz we get into 2016 we start to see an approach the 60% level that we’ve historically had.
Okay good.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
John I was curious about your observation that the early walk into 2015 with regard to tree orders looks encouraging.
I’m just curious how you think about that this for the next call it two or three years if you will record backlog with deepwater discoveries continued resilience with regard to IOC in deepwater NOC prosecution of deepwater developments notwithstanding all the negative rhetoric also you just right size your business in the Eastern region as well.
So for planning purposes are we think about kind of an annualized tree award world of what by 400 per annum going forward how do you think about that?  The way we think about it let me just take the real high level for a minute Bill and was in my obviously in my prepared remarks.
The number of undeveloped discoveries and inventories is a record level.
And in every conversation that we have with the operators is their intent to develop that portfolio and we need to help them do that by working on improving returns.
I think the way I look at it in the future is that’s going to be accomplished.
And we look at the Total Block 32 Kaombo project it’s almost a poster trial.
But here is a huge project that could have been problematic in terms of cost local content in Angola and yet that project was able to be reworked and looked out into different way fairly quickly and would be allowed to proceed with good returns and they awarded early this year.
And I think that was going to happen going forward is that these – this inventorial portfolio of deepwater discoveries will be – those that are challenged in terms of the returns will be reworked and the operators are proceed to develop their discoveries.
Now what were the number look like I think if you took 500 or so trees that we had last year you backout the 180 for Petrobras yet to a 400 range and then going forward we’ll see growth of that 400 in the high single-digit range going forward.
And that matches up nicely with the number of deepwater discoveries that need to be developed and production increases and so forth.
And that’s how we envision it going forward over the next two or three years.
And that’s in term you mentioned a little bit about our capacity and that’s what we’ve planned for is that kind of growth going forward.
And based on the 2014 results the list of named projects major projects in 2015 it supports that kind of high single-digit growth off of a base of 400 trees going forward.
Okay that’s very helpful.
If not encouraging Maryann with regard to fluid control and surface in general just given what happened to surface margins which were considerably better than I think most expected is it safe to say that fluid control revenues grew by something along 20% to 30% year-over-year? Yes hi Bill yes.
So fluid control as you know last fourth quarter we saw a little bit of weakness last year and we’re little conservative kind of going into the first quarter.
But we certainly saw as I said in the later part of that quarter fluid control improving.
So yes we saw double-digit growth there in the fluid control topline.
We are little conservative I’d say in terms of as John said what that will be for the rest of the year.
We’d like to be able to see some continuation of that before we get too aggressive in the back half of the year.
But we saw strong growth year-over-year in double-digit.
And so given the improvement in North American revenues and operating income going forward I know it’s early but I’m just curious with regard to 2015 how should we think about the tax rate high 20s low 30s where would a sort of prudent analyst be I guess positioned on the tax rate front for next year? Yes so as you heard me say we’re looking at a slight pick up this year and it’s largely driven by earnings mix.
There is a couple of tax changes that are going on in Europe U.S.
but probably somewhere in that low 30s just depending on how we see that mix going forward would be where I would suggest a prudent analyst to look at that.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Jim.
John with the alliance between Baker Hughes and Aker announced just recently to develop technology for subsea production.
Now some of your customers now forming alliances.
In your opinion is that becoming more likely that the industry is going in that route and then FMC will have to respond in someway to that? Jim I think what is it most likely is the subsea production companies will respond to the need by the industry to optimize subsea production systems lower cost improved production and recovery rates and that’s – that is what’s likely how we go about doing it I think may differ by company to company forming alliance I think is a good idea not necessarily with an Oilfield service company that maybe the way that we view it is by forming alliances to achieve that with our customers to the operators.
And we’ve been pretty successful in using those alliances with the operators to define and develop a new technology that’s required to improve Subsea production system efficiency deal with the challenge of improving production or recovery rates lowering the life of field cost.
And I think it’s using those relationships that’s been the foundation of our company’s strategy which is to develop the technologies for the companies need develop the subsea processing capability to help improve recovery rates.
And to develop the expanded subsea services including Riserless Light Well Intervention so operators can cost effectively go back into interventions and recovery.
And it’s worked for us it’s what allowed us and created our leadership position in those subsea processing and subsea services.
So I think rather is it likely that more these kinds of relationships that we see with Oilfield service companies not in our case.
What is more likely is that we will even more aggressively pursue developing the technologies that the operators need expanding our leadership position in Subsea processing and expanding our position in Subsea services.
So for us I think we’ll pursue that option much more aggressively than some other kind of alliance to achieve the same thing.
Okay that’s a thoughtful response John thank you for that.
As a follow-up you have spoken I think on the last call about different many subsea projects that they would be coming only two companies involved in the bidding and even the pre-engineering stage and given that is already happening is it disappointing to you to miss the large Kaombo water or is there so much business out there the fact that competitor will probably be really pretty occupied with this major project that capacity of he and then maybe another company will be flown it just increases the – your optimism on pricing going forward? Right well first of all I think I mentioned early that they awarded Kaombo are actually is very positive for the industry.
Because it says the industry on fairly short order and short order is able to rework projects boost the returns and proceed.
So they have the world’s – the industries largest Subsea production order 2 plus billion dollars in West Africa get awarded so really by historical centers so quickly as a real positive for the industry.
And so that example of I think what we can expect to happen in the future.
Now the answer to your question more directly are we disappointed first of all we were very interested in the Block 32 Kaombo project.
Why because we are the primary supplier to Total we’ve delivered most of it not all as many of the Total projects in West Africa they have the highest level of local content in Angola and we were extremely well positioned plus I think we had the most demonstrated available capacity to handle such a significant order that’s 65 trees with the first deliveries in just next year that’s a huge task.
And I think our company was probably really the best position to accomplish that.
So we saw a lot of things in our favor and we’d very much I’d like to participate on Kaombo but we also realize that the market certainly coming off of two extraordinary years 2012 and 2013 and then strong order outlook for 2014 and 2015 we realize that the market was going to continue to be tied and filling up our backlog our available capacity with the project that maybe the margins weren’t as good as we envision they can be in the future wouldn’t be a wise choice.
So we’re not willing to expect to fill up our backlog at less than optimal margins that we think are available in the market today.
And the results was disappointing but we have many other options to continue to grow our business and this will in fact I think two of them arguably the most aggressive subsea suppliers now are very very loaded and the awarded block 32 that one of them makes that situation even more solid.
So I think going forward competitive pricing environment will continue to be positive as a result of this one.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Byron Pope from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning even with the two notable subsea projects that you mentioned in your prepared remarks that FTI want your subsea inbound in Q1 was still fairly helping.
So John  Right Byron the strong unannounced projects were driven as they usually are through our alliance partners a lot from the Gulf of Mexico the size of the Gulf of Mexico projects because it’s not a production showing contracts environment and so forth tend to be a little bit smaller there tend to be more step outs because of the exiting infrastructure.
So I think the unannounced inbound for the first quarter was – look pretty much like our usual suspects Partner awards Gulf of Mexico awards.
And then follow on projects some of which were in West Africa projects that we had already won.
So and then as Maryann point out pretty strong subsea services despite the fact that we didn’t have recertification.
So we had the two stacks being recertified.
So strong subsea service.
A lot of smallish awards from our partners strong Gulf of Mexico and then follow on business from our big projects we had previously won internationally.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then and thinking about subsea services it’s kind of like the Gulf of Mexico was particularly healthy on the subsea services side.
As you think through where to deploy that fourth Light Well Intervention stack it seems as though you guys are looking at the deepwater golden triangle at this point just given the health of the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico are you leaning toward that fourth vessel coming to the Gulf as opposed to West Africa or Brazil?  Byron it’s been ago whoever signs the first contract for us so but I think you are on the right track that we’ve had a number of really important conversation with operators in the Gulf of Mexico are very interested.
So Gulf of Mexico certainly a likely candidate that fourth stack is going to go and wherever we can get our first contract.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks appreciated.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Could you remind us again how many trees just say that you booked in the first quarter  16.
So 16 trees.
And you mentioned that the Kaombo of $2 billion was 65 trees.
Yet you booked $2 billion on 16 trees.
So could you discuss a little bit the nature of your backlog? There seems to be something going on here which disconnects your business from trees? Well.
Our business has been disconnected for trees for several years now and we have moved to become a full subsea system supplier and to strengthen our ability to develop manifolds and the connection systems that’s really where we sort of pulled away from trees being kind of the governor of our inbound activity.
And you can see that all maybe the last four or five maybe around that five or six years where the revenue per tree has consistently grown.
And I think the first quarter was a really good example of that I give you a specific as you know we have frame agreement with BP.
The big shot in these projects we’ve been working with BP on for long time.
BP also has a frame agreement with the one Subsea they chose I think wisely chose to split up their projects is so large and critical to them.
And the tree award these are more repetitive trees I think started maybe something that the one Subsea that’s a one Subsea would be more interested in.
And then the more technically complex manifold system is what went to us.
And so we got as I think was pointed out on the comments well in excess of $300 million up from BP Shah Deniz for the manifolds and connection system with no trees associated with them.
And that’s been a pattern you see the same thing in Petrobras where the bulk of Petrobras’s manifold requirements come to FMC again driving the revenue per tree number up that’s what’s going on there.
So is this way out of kilter here in the first quarter or is this a fair kind of estimate of what we should expect going forward? And we're talking about revenue per tree but it's not really revenue per tree it's different streams of revenue some as trees? Exactly that’s why I think we have to probably stop talking about revenue per tree.
I would never think you're liable as [Tonio Coal] (ph) seems to be oodling on about how many trees they're going to book.
Can we just talk about really what's going on in your business? Yes first about trees and then it’s more about Subsea Systems and that’s for the revenue on the first quarter show that it is a little out of kilter to win a 300 plus million project manifolds only that’s unusual.
And that’s because BP shows to separate the trees from the manifold on the award normally you wouldn’t see that normally you would see the entire infrastructure the entire project trees and infrastructure being awarded to one supplier.
So I think the first quarter was a little bit unusual.
Turning to subsea processing.
A year ago we called around mostly potential customers and there seemed to be sort of a wait and see attitude towards using this technology.
What is your sense now in terms of new customer adoption rate? People looking at it? Right I think we move beyond wait and see I think most of the operators have adopted this technology some are little faster than others of course.
But most of them have adopted it.
When you look at the operators from 2014 2015 and beyond who have main projects where they are considering it is across the board it is virtually all of the IOCs and a significant number of the independent team and some are the smaller ones they are operating in the Gulf of Mexico are now not just considering that are including Subsea processing alternatives in their design concepts for developing the deepwater fields.
The phase of awards for processing is now less about adoption rates and more about a natural if you will lag time from venue are starting to consider subsea processing and alternating your design select phase of deepwater development which can precede an actual tender and award by three years that’s what’s happening.
And I think that’s why in 2013 and maybe even in 2014 you are going to see maybe a more modest number of subsea processing projects but then as we look out to 2015 and 2016 you see that lag time start to catch up and the number of projects started to increase.
I think that’s what we’re dealing with here as natural lag time not so much an adoption rate.
And Brazil is hot topic at the moment; the drilling activity has gone down a lot year-over-year.
Could you talk a little bit about work over activity and other activity completion activity if there really picking up? So what are you seeing in Brazil when it comes to some of these new technology is that a focus area or it’s a little about trees in Pre-Salt? Petrobras has a long-term vision in terms of developing technology and we’re working closely with them to help develop those new technology.
So they do have a longer-term vision that we’re actively working on something like four five very specific projects with simplest that R&amp;D and on the Petrobras to develop these new technologies.
But it’s very forward thinking.
They are talking about technologies that we required in 2020.
In the sort-term Petrobras is very focused on proceeding with Pre-Salt.
I think that’s they’re just moving forward with Pre-Salt included I think in some of our inbound was more Subsea Manifolds work fell below the threshold.
They are proceeding with acquiring the hardware that they need to develop Pre-Salt and I’d say that’s where their focus is right now.
But in terms of technology nothing installed it’s just further out.
o they're sort of Marlim's still a pilot et cetera despite being very successful at connectivity it's put on the back burner at the moment? I think it is on the back burner but it’s not on the back burner because the technology is proven the pilot on Marlim was the success.
They proceeded with their evaluations on how to apply it in the campus basin.
And now I think it’s in the larger Brazil capital priorities.
Do they put their attention on Pre-Salt on boosting production from the more conventional fields? I think that the implementation of the Marlim activity is in the middle of their prioritization by Petrobras right now.
And that’s kind a beyond my view is to when it’ll move up in the priorities.
And sorry just one last one.
You mentioned -- we've been through a capital freeze by the IOCs and that's never good news.
But there's a lot of pressure on how to lower costs [as he] (ph) correctly.
[High lack.] (ph) There's not just negotiating with rigging companies or – it's sort of negotiating with governments.
So can you give us a little bit of your view on how this is going to get resolved? I mean you mentioned Kaombo and maybe you said as an example.
What is it exactly that happened that make this project suddenly go from being not so attractive to very attractive? Well stuff is been in the press as they were on $15 billion to $20 billion project; they were $3 billion to $5 billion over their original plans which got the returns.
And they went back and we looked at their approach on using FPSO’s and they are using existing refurbished tankers to do the FPSO which took a couple of $1 billion out of the project they did some descoping on the Subsea production system which took some money out.
And then they renegotiated with the national oil company on the level of local content and that system on it that’s what I know.
There is probably other things that they did to rework that project that they took something like $3 billion to $5 billion out of the project and made the returns acceptable.
And I was disclosed that one on that just what’s in the press.
But I’m closer to be BPs Mad Dog because we’re a partner with Mad Dog.
And the same thing seems to be occurring there where they are reworking their development plans the number of wells that they drill they are revising their specifications after a more standard FMC industry spec is a oppose to a unique BP spec.
And its adding a fairly dramatic effect on the capital with bill spend and its boosting returns and my understanding is BP is considering FID on Mad Dog later this year as a oppose as a result of reworking that project.
So these are just two examples one I am little more familiar with the other but they are happening pretty fast and I think they are demonstrating which was in my prepared marks.
They are good examples of how the industry is addressing the pressure they are under to improve returns it still proceed to develop their extensive deepwater portfolio.
So they’re not asking you to lower price.
Well they… Let me rephrase it are they asking for price or they asking for technology?  The problem with the price in our case because we’re dealing mostly with our partners they have visibility where our margins are.
And they know that they can’t get the returns to where they be just by squeezing our margins.
And I think there is a really good understanding of that and we’re not spending a lot of our time on shrinking the price because we know we can’t get there.
And its there is a much much more productive discussion early that is taking place.
And everyone of our partners and even some were non-partners have come to our company and said John how can we adopt more industry standards as a oppose to our unique company standards and specs.
And if we do adopt industry standards how much could we say or maybe more importantly how much could we reduce the lead times one of the best way to improve the return on a deepwater project is accelerate your first oil date.
And that’s the conversation that we’re having with Statoil with BP with Anadarko with Shell virtually every E&amp;P company that we deal with that’s the conversation there has been some terrific movement by the operators to adopting our standard and with not only reducing their cost but improving their lead times that’s the conversation not about reducing our price.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Maryann I wanted to just come back to the Subsea margin outlook here just think about the 1Q I’m assuming that it probably came a little bit better than which also expectations were given the headwinds around that the downtime on the Light Well Interventions and the restructuring you guys are doing in the Eastern region.
How we think about 2Q margins here should – is 4Q 2013 probably a pretty good both in terms of that recovery and just was at less negative impact that you guys saw on 1Q do you seen that leading the 2Q or is it just you had a much better mix here on the sales side during the quarter.
Hey Bill.
So sequentially 2Q of this year we expect to be improved over Q1 not a bad place to look at Q4.
But keep in mind remember Q4 when we talk about it we have that $24 million tax adjustments.
So if you want to if you want me to exclude that tax adjustments which was favorable and in terms of your question about kind of a shifting we saw strength in the first quarter coming out of the Gulf of Mexico and in partner services we’re optimistic.
But we’re not sure whether it’s just timing right now.
So first quarter was probably a little bit better than what we thought from a full year perspective back half will be strong stronger than the first half but sequentially second quarter up from the first quarter in a meaningful way obviously as we don’t have the cost of the severance we don’t have the recertification and we bring the North Sea back and the two intervention stacks.
Okay I think a 4Q kind of clean margin was around 13.5% that’s probably not a bad starting point Maryann? You got a good memory Bill.
Okay I guess just one follow up I know in terms of the guidance staying intact yes we have this material handling product sale Yes so we had two things going as you know you are absolutely right we have excluded the estimated profitability from material handling – the material goes through as we expect.
And as I mentioned we’re looking at a slightly higher tax rate.
So yes we are cautiously optimistic as I mentioned about our ability given the strength of the fourth quarter the strength of the first quarter and top end of the guidance there when we think about Subsea Technologies as we look at this a lot of things going well.
We certainly have more things that need to go well but a lot of things that we’ve been talking about are going well.
So we should be at the top end of that Subsea Technologies margin guidance is similar – we think about surface as well.
I guess just one more just on just the Surface Technologies called out in the quarter here in North America strength was there anything relate to new products or new pressure pumping related equipment or just as all existing capacity that’s just again looking for refurbs and upgrades here? Yes no new product is existing and as existing equipment with refurbs and replacement but no new product sale? Okay thanks.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
So John you’ve been talking about standardization as a key for improving returns for a bit now that seems like it’s starting to catch on.
I was curious on your outlook for kind of 2014 and 2015 subsea trees is that a material driver do you think as an encumbered incremental orders obviously we’ve seen a lot of delays out there.
And also development projects is that something do you think that you kind of move that forward I am just kind of curious that you already booked about 40% of your current full year number in the first quarter as you are looking out.
I am just wondering can the standardization kind of drive that higher this year or is that cover a little bit more of a longer term goal for you? Well I don’t I do standardization primarily as the opportunity to help the operators to improve the returns and improve execution.
And what a very unique position here we’ve been talking about standardization as long as I’ve been in the business so far decades.
But getting a lot of operators stacks we move on that clearly has been challenge because of the pressure that they are under to improve returns for the first time it really feels like some of the operators are really serious about adopting industry standards and that creates an opportunity for FMC because of our size and scale.
And the work that we’ve done in standardizing our product offering.
We’re in a really good position to take advantage of the situation right now and push standards to operators who in the past have not use them.
And it’s – because I mentioned in my earlier remarks I mean it’s compiling it can make a material difference in cost and ability to execute and improve returns.
So I think it’s a real opportunity for our company to protect our market leadership position by promoting the standards.
Now incremental tree awards for the industry or for us well it is to the extent that standardization is part of the solution from making some of these subsea projects have more acceptable returns.
But I think for us it’s more really cementing and protecting and sustaining our market leadership position because we can use these standards to our advantage – to our competitive advantage in the market.
Well for some standardization might imply weaker pricing can you talk about that and does that actually will need better margins or how should we think about kind of standardization as it relates to profitability going forward? Yes well I’m talking about standardizing on our standard.
So it’s not – there is nothing out of our weaker margins and I think and in fact is just the opposite.
When you look at our ability to execute we execute better when we are executing on our standard product line.
So I think in terms of better execution to the extent and that does obviously improve the net margins I think it’s better.
Okay.
And my last quick follow-up here.
Is that some chatter about kind of changing local content requirements to West Africa.
Can you elaborate a little bit on that kind of – I heard there are some changes on the Block 32 award how does this impact a country that just had impact on the Egina project or is that already kind of signed sealed and moving on from that.
Right well it has no impact on the Egina project that’s done we’re actually well prepared for developing assembling the trees in country and as well as doing a lot of fabrications.
So that’s that no impact of all that’s done.
I would be very careful about looking at the Kaombo situation and saying that local content is going to reverse itself.
Local content remains very very important aspect for the national oil companies and I think you just look at the size of Block 32 and maybe the uniqueness around that they were able to get some adjustments to local content requirement.
But I’d be careful about thinking about that trend.
How does it affect our company? Either way it’s fine.
I mean we’ve manage to sell a developing real legitimate local content and challenging places has become a competitive advantage of ours.
We’ve won a number of awards simply because the national oil companies favored us because we had the highest level of local content and we are going to maintain that position.
It’s the low content requirements of backed off at all I don’t think that will impact us one way or the other.
But I don’t see them going away it’s too important for the national oil companies.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lamotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning Mike.
First I’d like to follow-up on – good morning.
First I’d like to follow-up on David’s observation 40% of your backlog guidance having been booked in the first quarter.
Maybe John if I could ask you to speculate on what could happen that to take that $5 billion number higher this year? Well first of all we are pleased that we’ve got almost $2 billion in the first quarter that sets things up nice but it’s also because of the two very large projects firstly happen to fall early in the year which is the way we like it because now it’s helps us on our conversion rates of those projects through the P&amp;L.
So that’s a good thing.
We are – right now obviously with the $2 billion in the bank we’re pretty confident of more than $5 billion.
What could take more than $5 billion is really a couple of projects towards the end of the year that involve national oil companies in Africa and if those were to slip which as you know there inclined to do they could easily go into 2015.
So I don’t think it’s really healthy for us to get too far ahead of ourselves in terms of the possible inbound when an order to get away above but would require some major project awards late in the year that could very easily slip into 2015.
So I think our guidance that the $5 billion plus is right for now we got to see how these big projects – couple other projects that we’re looking at how they – where they fall.
Okay.
You mentioned that in the first quarter too there was follow-on work from previously awarded projects.
What's the cycle time and the visibility of that type of order? It’s good; I mean these are our partners we’d have to wait for the envelope to be opened up to see who is going to win it.
They’re almost always direct awards to us so there is quite a bit of visibility.
Okay.
So not necessarily a source of further upside and later in the year is where I'm going with that? No the upside later in the year will come from the timing of major projects that we’ve targeted and if they stand schedule and move up a little bit and they land in 2014 and there could be upside but as you know they could just as usually and more likely slip to the right and land in 2015.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
And if I can ask a question on the surface side as well.
It strikes me that surface wellhead business that you’ve been growing share particularly overseas.
I just want to ask about the strategy there the value proposition that you communicate to the customers.
And where you’re seeing the most notable impact and penetration.
The biggest impact has been in the Middle East the activity is very strong the equipment is used in the Middle East is pretty sophisticated for surface wellhead equipment it’s usually – oftentimes is platform equipment actually in the Emirates anyway.
And the kind of competition that we experienced in North America with a lot of smaller players doesn’t exist internationally they’re not qualified maybe the barriers to entry are higher and so the competitive environment is quite a bit different for us internationally and particularly in the Middle East.
And the type of equipment is a little bit more sophisticated which is also barrier to entry.
We’ve been operating in the Middle East for a long time to develop really strong relationships with E&amp;P operators in the Middle East and that’s what’s driven our growth primarily in our international markets.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Yep.
Thank you.
And our final question is from James Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning John.
Good morning Jim.
The biggest disconnect I have seen in my career seems to be timing between what the financial world thinks and what happens in industry.
I'm just curious how long was Block 32 delayed? You said it was changed quickly and it was.
How long was it delayed? A year or two? Six months? No no no actually Egina was delayed longer than Block 32 I’m thinking back for the last year and a half we’ve been calling Kaombo is the potential for 2014.
I’m thinking just a couple of months.
And I don’t - Egina was delayed longer than Kaombo.
Let me ask you a broader question how long do you think it will take for the entire deepwater supply chain to adjust it’s cost efficiencies and practices which is what you are doing? Get back for the growth rate we’ve seen over the last five years? I don’t think this is about the supply chain this is about and this is why I use those examples of Mad Dog and Kaombo it’s wasn’t the supply chain that adjusted.
It was the operators changing their development approach.
It was Total deciding that they we’re going to use a different approach on the FPSO’s it was BP deciding they we’re going to use a different approach on the field layout and the number wells they were going to drill.
This is what changed Jim not the supply chain.
Okay so then we can seen much faster change than you have to see if you are expecting supply chain? That’s my belief Okay thank you all very much.
I appreciate it.
You’re welcome.
Yes thanks.
Thank you.
Would you like to proceed with any closing remarks? Yes Christine.
This concludes our first quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 PM Eastern today.
We will conduct our second quarter 2014 conference call on July 23 at 9:00 AM Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Christine you may now end the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the FMC Technologies Second Quarter Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is Paulette and I'll be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Brad Alexander.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin.
Thank you Paulette.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our second quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today is Maryann Seaman our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll discuss highlights from the quarter Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we’ll open up the call for your questions.
We delivered strong quarterly operational results driven primarily by our subsea performance.
Total company quarterly revenue was $2 billion and operating profit was $291 million.
Earnings were $0.72 per diluted share for the quarter when excluding the gain related to the sale of our material handling products businesses.
Subsea activity remained strong overall despite no large contracts awarded during the quarter.
We received $850 million of subsea awards in the quarter and these inbound orders included small project awards many from your partners and continued growth in our subsea service revenue.
Subsea margins increased sequentially as we projected.
Our focus on improving project execution and reducing our cost structure over the past few quarters is reflected in our increased subsea margins.
More importantly we are demonstrating our ability to more reliably execute complex subsea projects to meet our customers' requirements in this growing market.
Examples of this focus on execution include our progress in completing Petrobras Pre-Salt trees with a high level of local content on time.
And successfully achieving critical equipment deliveries for Total's CLOV project in Angola that recently delivered first oil on schedule.
One of the emerging areas for deepwater subsea growth in the Gulf of Mexico is the Paleogene trend also referred to as the lower tertiary.
This geological trend is characterized by extreme reservoir conditions with well pressures at the seabed of up to 20 000 psi and temperatures of 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
To address this challenge we have reached an agreement with Anadarko BP ConocoPhillips and Shell to develop the next generation of high pressure and temperature subsea production equipment.
This milestone agreement for the industry establishes a comprehensive program for collaboratively designing and qualifying subsea equipment to enable production from these fields.
This collaboration on achieving standardization of these systems will improve our customers' returns by reducing the overall upfront cost of developing the technology and this will also increase the reliability of the hardware and shorten the time to first oil.
We are very encouraged to see this level of demonstrated commitment to standardization within the industry and are hopeful this will be a model for approaching similar challenges in the future.
Turning to our surface technologies segment we reported strong sequential revenue growth in the second quarter as both our surface wellhead and fluid control businesses performed well.
Our surface wellhead international business continues to be strong as a result of active Middle East North Sea and Africa markets our strong market position and our industry leading execution performance.
Fluid control activity also continued to strengthen as repair and replacement revenue increased and the first signs of some capital equipment orders materialized.
We are very well positioned to successfully meet the demand of this recovering market.
To strengthen our surface technologies position in the dynamic North America market we have restructured our surface wellhead and completion service businesses to both integrate services and introduce new commercial and technical solutions.
These steps will reduce cost and shorten lead-time for sale of products and services unique to the shale plays and pad drilling sites.
In addition we have combined our flowback service capability with water treatment technology to address the critical water usage and disposal challenges facing the industry.
We have completed a number of pilot projects for customers with positive results and expect to advance to commercial products and services.
Briefly looking at the second half of the year.
In subsea we are pleased with our execution improvements to the first half of the year and are on track to deliver mid-teen subsea margins in the back half of the year.
We continue to see strong subsea market environment.
Most of our competitors have large backlogs and our customers want to proceed with developing their extensive deepwater portfolios.
We are on track to exceed $5 billion in both subsea orders and subsea revenue this year and based on named projects under development we expect continued strength in 2015.
In surface technologies our international surface wellhead business continues to deliver solid performance and this bodes well for strong full year 2014 results.
North America orders primarily in fluid control increased sequentially.
And we have gained confidence that this higher level of activity should continue throughout the second half of the year as customers have begun to now place capital equipment orders.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks John.
Our operations performed well in the second quarter.
Subsea technologies operating profit was $194 million in the quarter with a margin of 14.6%.
Subsea technologies operating margins improved 390 basis points year-over-year with operating profit increasing 61%.
Stronger growth margin performance and an improved cost structure in our subsea systems business contributed to the expected improvement.
Sequentially margins increased as our subsea service activity increased and both our project portfolio and execution on our backlog continue to improve.
This quarterly progress continues to give us confidence in the full year performance that we have been forecasting.
We expect to deliver similar subsea operating margins in the second half of the year.
We continue to see very strong performance in both our western region and Brazil operations.
Additionally the headcount reductions and other operational improvements that have been executed in our eastern region created a cost structure that is better aligned with our level of activity.
This structure and operational efficiency should continue to support our improving performance going forward.
Moving to our surface technology results.
Surface technologies operating profit for the second quarter was $79 million a 38% increase from the prior year quarter.
Margins in the quarter were 15.5%.
North America fluid control orders were strong throughout the quarter.
Repair and replacement activity is the primary driver of our stronger orders.
However we are now beginning to see some customers place capital orders associated with new fleet construction.
This is offset somewhat by sequentially lower levels of customer restocking which appears to be nearing completion.
These developments have increased our confidence in the state of the North American market as we look at the remainder of the year.
Our international surface wellhead business experienced the anticipated sequential increase in activity and continued to perform well as activity grew year-over-year.
Our backlog supports the strong year-over-year revenue performance that we expect.
As forecast completion service was negatively impacted by Canadian breakup this quarter.
As we come out of this period we expect its performance to improve as the Canadian market outlook appears to be strengthening.
Surface technologies margins will grow in the coming quarters and allow us to deliver better full year margins than we previously forecast.
We now anticipate delivering margins in a range of 17% to 18% for the full year.
Orders for surface technologies for the quarter were $502 million driven by the uptick in fluid control orders.
Fluid control sales are now at their highest level in the last two years.
Surface technologies backlog exiting the quarter stands at $779 million.
This supports our continued confidence in our full year revenue and operating income growth expectations for this segment.
Energy infrastructure operating income for the second quarter was $18 million with margins up 12.2%.
This excludes the gain from the sale of the material handling products business which was completed earlier in the quarter.
Let's turn to corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $16.8 million.
We expect this expense to be approximately $17 million to $18 million per quarter throughout the remainder of 2014.
Other revenue and expense net reflects income of $68 million.
This includes the pretax gain on the material handling sale of $86 million.
We expect other revenue and expense net to be approximately $40 million of expense in the second half of the year.
This estimate is subject to foreign currency fluctuations and includes and expense associated with a plan de-risking of our pension plan of approximately $20 million which should be incurred in the fourth quarter.
Our second quarter tax rate was 32.2% which reflects a larger concentration of U.S.
earnings.
We now anticipate our 2014 tax rate to be between 32% and 34% for the full year.
Capital spending this quarter was $88 million primarily directed towards subsea expansion initiative.
We expect capital spending in 2014 to be approximately $400 million.
At the end of the second quarter we had net debt of $928 million.
It is comprised of $382 million of cash and $1.3 billion of debt.
We averaged 237.2 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter and we repurchased 471 000 shares of stock during the second quarter at an average cost of $55.67 per share.
In summary we had a solid operational quarter as our subsea technologies results continued to improve.
The result of our better execution on an improved backlog and the realization of our implemented operational and cost efficiencies.
Our surface technologies operating results were driven by the strengthening North America land market and an international business that is continuing to perform at the high levels we began delivering in 2013.
Looking forward we are increasing our diluted earnings per share guidance to a range of $2.70 to $2.80 which excludes the gain associated with the sale of the material handling products business.
This reflects increased belief in the full year sustainability of the North American recovery and its impact on our surface technologies business.
It also includes increased confidence in our ability to deliver full year subsea EBIT margins in a range of 13% to 14%.
We continue to forecast that our subsea revenue and orders will exceed $5 billion in 2014.
We are very pleased with our financial performance throughout the first half of the year and look forward to continuing to deliver solid results throughout the remainder of the year.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Brad Handler from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I guess I will target surface.
Perhaps a little bit more color around your conversation with respect to the orders.
So the $502 million in orders were down sequentially and yet your narrative suggests strength in fluid control.
So maybe just a little bit more color about some of the segments within that order book and perhaps an understanding as to how it stepped down sequentially please.
Brad for fluid control in the first quarter we had kind of a rush of restocking orders that came in on the first quarter and that wasn’t repeated in the second -- we didn’t expect it to be repeated in the second quarter.
So that’s one reason why we are optimistic about fluid control orders going forward is because the first quarter was kind of anomaly.
But I think when you look at the second quarter fluid control orders they were solid in terms of consumables and then as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we saw the first signs of capital orders and that’s what gives us -- and then also some comments from the industry now the pressure pumpers saying they want to add capacity.
These are all good signs for fluid control.
But if you are worried about the sequential drop off I would say fluid contributed a little bit because first quarter was unusually high.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Perhaps as a follow up and related to the same.
What lead times are you able to quote now I suppose on pumps.
I imagine your turn on treating iron is still very short but on pumps what lead times are you quoting? And maybe the basis for the question is we are starting to see a lot of indications of build in fracking equipment.
Not sure whether there is any delay in you receiving your order for the pump relative to the indications or other long lead items for building out a frac fleet.
Brad during the last ramp up in 2011 we had substantially increased our capacity at our Stephenville facility where all this equipment is being manufactured.
So whether it's for treating iron I know you asked specifically about pumps but whether it's for treating iron or pumps we have more than enough capacity to meet demand.
But you are right in that market there is really no backlog.
When the calls comes for your treating iron you have to have it.
Not that what I have said in my prepared remarks we are especially ready for a ramp up on treating iron for sure.
And also for the pumps.
We geared up.
We are relatively new pump manufacturer but we geared up for a lot larger volume then actually what we ever saw in pumps.
So I don’t anticipate any lead-time issues or capacity issues with regard to serving the market whether it's for treating for iron ore for pumps.
And I think the supply chain -- we have been pretty careful in anticipation of this recovery to make sure that our inventories and our supply chain was well stocked.
We don’t want to miss any part of this recovery.
And our next question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
I wonder whether you could just give a little bit more color on the surface side with respect to what's relating to pressure pumping given that this appears to be sort of at the very early stages of an upswing.
How much of your surface revenues in the quarter roughly were driven by either fluid ends and treating iron or any kind of complete product or spreads.
Yes Ole hi.
Good morning.
So we have seen as you know from the first quarter some strength coming out of fluid control in the back half of the year.
And that largely was being driven by sort of the replacement cycle you know the restocking if you will.
In the second quarter we continued to see the repair and replacement and now what we are beginning to see is somewhat of a tailing off if you will of that restocking.
And beginning to see sort of the new orders for the capital expansion.
So a lot of the change quarter-to-quarter sequentially was driven by the strength in the fluid control business as we saw kind of continuation of the back half of the year.
So would it be fair to say that this is still a smallish part of your surface technology revenues? I am sorry was -- is it a what please? Would it be fair to say that this is still a small part of your surface technology overall revenues? Sure.
That would be fair to say.
Okay.
On the subsea side the margins very strong compared to what we see out of any of your peer group.
So just want to get a little bit more color on whether there was something unique in this quarter.
That timing of orders shipments anything along those lines? I know your accounting method should really smoothen that out but versus something with just more structural as a shift in your business relates to new products from subsea intervention.
For example you had some downtime on both in the first quarter dockings etcetera.
Now you're rolling out a much more capital intensive service part of that business that could in my view structurally change the margins.
But I just want to get a little bit of an understanding of if you could walk us through the rather large step up from first to second quarter.
Yes.
Ole it's almost all exclusively related to execution.
I think I am ensuring in these calls for the last year and a half that our margins and backlog have continued to walk up as a result of more favorable market conditions.
And the second quarter quite frankly reflects that better price backlog flowing through the P&amp;L with substantially better execution.
I don’t think there was anything abnormal about it other than this is how we intend to run the business going forward and these are the kind of margins you should expect from a company that’s executing well.
And our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
John back to the subsea outlook for a second here.
Given the strength that we have witnessed in the first half especially in the first quarter with regard to inbound I think there's not a crisis in confidence with regard to the $5 billion target for this year in orders.
What would be helpful is really in terms of the roadmap for second half.
In terms of what do you think is a decent estimate for book to bill on the one hand and also the composition of orders in the second half of the year? I would expect that you would embed it in your forecast be counting on a major project or two in addition to the onesies and twosies? Right Bill.
The roadmap -- so let me just address that head on.
The roadmap for the second half is what I am going to call our base business which we are really encouraged from the second quarter with no major awards won to book.
$850 million of what I am going to call base business.
It's coming from strong subsea service revenue and call outs from our partners.
I was impressed by how good that number was and certainly hopeful that that will continue through the second half of the year.
And then you put on top of that and so are looking at $2.8 billion in inbound orders for the first half.
You add this base load for two more quarters and put on top of that one or two probably two targeted projects which we fully expect to book this year and you get over $5 billion.
Good.
That’s helpful.
And then secondly on the Q1 call you had sold a pretty constructive multiyear outlook for subsea orders.
If memory serves kind of a high single-digit rate of annualized growth predominantly driven by the strong development backlog that currently resides with deepwater end of season IOCs.
Does that outlook still stand? It sounds like you remain encouraged for 2015 for example.
Bill I absolutely do.
We will start with you just said and I won't repeat everything I said in the last quarter's call but we know that the backlog of undeveloped deep water discoveries from all the major operators remains very high.
We have seen no major deferments or postponements as a result of returns or cash flows.
So we haven't seen any major changes in their interest in developing their deepwater portfolio.
And then as I look -- and you know in this industry we have a great deal of visibility.
So I can look out into 2015 and I can see named projects and the named projects for 2015 significant projects in 2015 exceed the named projects that I saw in 2014 and that's what gives me confidence in the multiyear outlook.
And our next question comes from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
John I was hoping you could spend a moment talking about the press release you guys put out on Monday.
I mean clearly we have heard hear a theme from you this year about standardization.
Wanting to see more of that with your clients.
You have announced this joint industry program if you will.
I guess first when I look at this it looks like you are really kind of starting what I would say the top of the food chain in terms of standardization here.
I mean this seems to be high spec type equipment.
And I am just curious one when do you start realizing orders from this initiative and I guess two does this joint venture ultimately trickle down to what I think we all believe are the more traditional subsea type of hardware sales that I am assuming is probably a larger percentage of your current orders.
Any thoughts there? Yes.
Well thanks for the question Bill.
It took -- I had to wait till the fourth quarter to talk about what I really wanted to talk about which is extraordinary agreement that we were able to broker with four important operators particularly in the Gulf of Mexico.
You are right it's the top of the food chain in terms of the -- it's the highest level of technology.
Which you could say is there is a certain amount of risk associated with that and cost associated with that which is what brought these four operators together to do something that’s really unprecedented in the industry and that is agree on not a science experiment but to agree to develop and qualify and ultimately build standard equipment for high pressure high temperature which is required for the lower tertiary.
So it's groundbreaking in terms of what it means for the industry.
It's exactly what I think and I think the industry thinks needs to happen to improve the returns for these major deepwater projects.
And I am hopeful as I mentioned in my prepared remarks that this will set an example or a model for how we might go forward with more conventional equipment.
To answer your specific question when will this materialize in terms of orders it's a couple of years out.
We are on track to deliver this technology when each of the four operators require it but it's a couple of years out.
But you know it's significant for the industry.
Clearly it's significant for us because we are the ones that will be providing this unique equipment that will be needed throughout the Gulf of Mexico.
But I am hopeful that we will be able to expand this approach to more conventional equipment.
Great.
My follow up would just be on Brazil.
Last year you had still a healthy level of callout awards.
We know that the delivery schedules took a little bit longer there.
Can you just talk about the pace of delivery on those orders that you've received? Is Petrobras still taking those in an orderly fashion in expectation of what you had and maybe talk about future orders there? What does the outlook look like for on the Pre-Salt side going forward? As you know Bill two year ago we won the Pre-Salt tree award which delivered over four years.
In 2014 we would have delivered about 50% of that.
So over the next couple of years we will finish out that backlog for trees.
We were awarded the first Pre-Salt manifolds.
They have called off almost two-thirds I think 14 of the 19 manifolds that we received they have called those off.
We expect further call offs potentially this year.
And then beyond that again we will have a couple of years of Pre-Salt backlog to work off but beyond that we would imagine that Petrobras will have to reload up on the requirements for Pre-Salt and we will participate in that.
And your next question comes from Doug Becker from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
John I think you pretty well detailed a positive outlook for subsea orders in 2015.
Curious what role you expect Petrobras to play in the 2015 outlook for orders.
Well Doug it's hard for me at this point to know how Petrobras is going to approach that next supply awards for Pre-Salt.
I think there is a lot and lot of factors in there.
But it wouldn’t be unreasonable in 2015 for them to start to layer back up on their requirements.
But that’s a little hard for me to say at this point.
And they haven't indicated what their plans are but if you just look at how they are consuming the equipment if you look at their concern that they have had in the past of not being able to ensure supply of equipment.
You know that happened two years ago when all their Pre-Salt equipment was with one supplier and they had issues.
So I would imagine they are going to be somewhat conservative and not get themselves into a bind again.
So it's possible that at 2015 we could see a reloading but I am not real clear on that.
Fair enough.
And then on subsea margins as we think about the second half of the year is there still execution upside there? Or is the 15% margins give or take are we kind of capped there just given what's in backlog and likely to be converted in the second half at this point? Yes.
Hey Doug.
So the second quarter margins gave us increased confidence on our ability to deliver that back half of '15.
The way that I would characterize that for you is we see and obviously the second quarter gave us more confidence that these margins in the back half are very achievable.
And so obviously we manage a lot or risks and opportunities in those and to the extent that we continue to do that well we see that back half of the year being extremely achievable in subsea.
And our next question comes from David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick question on the subsea pricing out there.
Are you starting to see that on the onesies and twosies kind of some of those smaller awards that seem to be making up a bigger portion of your order book? Can you just give us a sense where that stands now John? Well obviously in the second quarter it was all onesies and twosies plus our service for us.
Most of -- I think for our company we could allow the onesies-twosies because it's a call off from our frame agreements.
If you don’t have frame agreements you don’t have alliance then the inclination for an operator is to order and tender the entire field or a lot of the field.
When you have a frame agreement and you are not tendering why do that.
And you have standardized on your equipment you just call it off.
So I think our company tends to get more onesies and twosies as a result of these call offs.
In terms of pricing of the onesies and twosies most of our call offs are part of our frame agreements so we get good pricing on those because of the frame agreements.
And you kind of get market rate on those is that correct? If I recall then the (indiscernible)? Well at least market rate.
I mean in a down market we always get better than market rates but in an up market yes we get market rates.
Around subsea separation Marlim I've been hearing pretty positive things from Petrobras in private but I haven't heard them say anything publicly.
Can you give us a sense as to where that stands and when you think the next one could come from from what you can tell right now? Right.
Well as far as we are concerned it's in Petrobras' hands.
It's not about the technology it's not about whether it's proven or they want to use it.
That’s all been settled.
It works.
It met or exceeds their expectations.
They like the technology they need it.
This has to do with other strategies and considerations that Petrobras has and how they want and when they want to go back into those legacy fields and deal with their production declines.
I am glad you are hearing positive remarks from them we hear positive remarks from them as well.
But I don’t see anything in the near term from Petrobras with regard to an order at least they haven't hinted that to us.
They have got other issues and priorities that they need to sort out before they put together their plan for ordering Marlim type equipment.
And our next question comes from Marshall Adkins from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hey John I want to come back to that standardization consortium.
Is it just for high temperature high pressure stuff? It’s for all the equipment that’s required for the lower tertiary which is 20 000 350 degree subsea production is the scope.
So yes all the subsea production equipment that those four operators will need to develop their lower tertiaries included in the scope.
And I don’t know if you are -- yes? Does it represent a change in customer attitude and say you come up with a standardized package are other industry participants going to have access to that or is that just an FMC thing? Right.
It absolutely represents a change in the industry.
We have seen standardization in the industry before.
Sometimes an operator will standardize within their own portfolio in a region.
Sometimes they will accept an FMC standard.
But we have never seen four operators agree upfront that they are going to agree on what the standard is and then buy that standard.
So that’s what is ground breaking in this that each of those four operators are going to buy the same part number to develop their lower tertiary fields and they will buy that from FMC.
It is exclusive in the sense that they will only buy the equipment from FMC.
But other -- this equipment and this technology will be available to the market.
And our next question comes from Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good quarter guys.
I know that BP and Shell are frame agreement customers.
Are Anadarko and Conoco as well? Anadarko is an exclusive alliance partner with us.
Conoco is a little different.
We have provided most of Conoco's subsea equipment over the last couple of years and although we don’t have a formal relationship with them at this time I'd say we have informal partnership in that they have used a lot of FMC equipment.
But you are right three of them actually have exclusive agreements with us.
Congratulations on getting four of the oil companies to agree to anything.
Good job.
John you're talking about water treating and that you've done some pilots and that you're moving toward commercialization of the technology.
Can you talk about you know water treating has been the Holy Grail for onshore for a long time.
You guys bought Pure to get in the flowback business.
Can you talk a little bit more about what that technology is and what it could mean? Right.
The technology is separation systems which is -- you know bought a separation company years ago to develop separation technology to be used on the seabed.
As it turns out that technology is pretty applicable to the shale plays so we just tapped into that.
I think it's fantastic technology but the real secret here Jim and you already alluded to it is we have access to the flowback.
And the Pure Energy acquisition was really what made this happen.
There is a lot of people out there that do water treatment and we get that.
But we actually have access to it through Pure Energy.
So we get the flowback.
We are the ones who get it.
So now we get to apply what was originally acquired as subsea separation technology to the shale plays.
And our next question comes from Jim Crandell from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Can you tell me how many tree orders you had in the quarter and what the Quest total number was for the second quarter? We inbounded 15 subsea trees Jim.
The Quest numbers haven't been published but because Kaombo will fall in the second quarter and that was 65 trees I would look for a 100ish or around 100 or less a few less trees to be shown by Quest when those numbers come out.
But we were 15 and the total will be around 100 when you include the Kaombo numbers.
Okay.
And could you give us a range for the full year for the industry and your thoughts about magnitude of increase in 2015? Well Jim we have talked about this before.
The tree count is starting to lose some of its significance because of the manifold work and subsea services are growing.
So I want to be a little bit careful when I talk about tree counts.
We should be around 150 trees when the Quest numbers come in for the first half of the year.
The Quest tree number is in the 400 plus range for 2014.
I think at this stage you have to be a little careful because these big awards particularly ones in Africa they are coming towards the end of the year could easily flip into 2015.
So I am a little hesitant to call what the tree count will be.
One because it's starting to lose some of its significance in terms of subsea inbound dollars and two we are getting a little closer to the end of the year.
But we are probably at about 150 or so half way through the year.
And our next question comes from Byron Pope from Tudor Pickering.
Please go ahead.
Just have one question on the subsea business.
With your guidance of fiscal '14 revenues of call it the 5 billionish it's looking at roughly close to double digit top line growth.
And I thought that the subsea services element of that business as being faster growth business and higher margins.
So it sounded in your prepared remarks like you're still constructive on that element of the subsea franchise.
And so just wanted to get your sense for which geo markets are going to drive the services side of subsea as you think about the back half of the year and into 2015? Well Byron you are absolutely right that we are looking for subsea service growth in the coming years.
You know we are already very strong in the North Sea.
So for our company we would see revenue growth in markets that we haven't served as strong as we have in the North Sea.
So look to the Gulf of Mexico look to Brazil and look to West Africa as new geo markets where we would see subsea services to continue to grow.
And our next question comes from Chuck Minervino from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Two questions for you.
Number one Maryann I think you talked the last quarter about the backlog conversion rates for '14 I think it was something around 50%.
And then I believe you said kind of approaching 60% by '16.
I'm not really sure if that's correct from the transcript or if it was more supposed to be '15 but can you give us a little color on where you expect backlog conversion to be in '15 and then '16 if you kind of have an idea on that? Sure hey Chuck.
So you are right.
In '14 we are seeing obviously a lower conversion rate and that’s because of sort of the longer tail of the backlog we have with the project like Egina and certainly the backlog that John's being talking about with respect to Petrobras and Pre-Salt.
If you look it this year and as just we have kind of reconfirmed we are looking at about another $5 billion of inbound coming.
And that inbound has got a little bit of a different makeup than last year.
So it's a smaller tail etcetera and we would expect to be able to see in '15 that backlog convert at a more traditional level.
And when you take the backlog that we have got from this year and that what we are adding we begin to see 2015 returning closer to that more traditional high 50s 60s sort of turnover and then you take the subsea services growth as we were just talking about.
So a little too soon for me to make any kinds of prediction on 2016.
That will obviously depend on what the makeup of the inbound of 2015 looks like.
But given what we see right now and the outlook for the balance of the year inbound we think that '15 will see the conversion rate return to a more normal level as we have seen in the past.
Great so kind of closer to the 60% number okay.
And then on the subsea margins kind of similar to a question you got earlier.
You guys have made quite a bit of progress over the last 12 months in subsea margins.
Can you just help us understand how far along we are in that? I mean have we kind of got towards the seventh inning here in the margin expansion story or is there more to go? I know a lot of it was kind of fixing the labor force geographically and getting that right in the execution side of it.
Is there a next step here that we could be focused on over the next 12 months? We are clearly in the seventh inning.
I mean Maryann's talked about exit margins of 2014 in the mid-teens and that’s what we thought we would be with good execution.
So I think further margin expansion will come from the market.
And our next question comes from Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Actually just to sort of follow up on the last question.
John when you look at the sort of I guess creeping up of pricing on the subsea side over the last year and you talked a little bit about the better backlog that you executed in the second quarter.
Where does it stand now as far as sort of that margin mix in the backlog versus say the beginning of the year even a year ago? Well a year ago we had low margin projects as a result of a combination of some of our execution challenges and pricing from two and three years ago.
And those throughout last year and into the first half of this year have been exiting our backlog and being replaced by better margin business that we have obtained over the last year as the pricing environment has improved.
And so I think when you get deeper into the second half of this year you are going to see most of the backlog reflect the margins that we have experienced in this more favorable pricing environment.
So that’s where the -- when you got the response I did to the last question was I think we are starting to see the margin expansion slow down a little bit both as a result of our improved execution and the backlog now starting to almost entirely reflect the better market environment.
And our next question comes from Michael Lamotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
If I could just follow-up on the subsea services discussion a little bit with a question more specifically about intervention tool utilization visibility over the next call it six to nine months.
And also John if you could talk about the refurbishment business and general trends in that segment.
With regard to the intervention tools you know we have the three tools that have full contracts.
They will be fully utilized.
In the first quarter of course we had the recertification but going forward all three of the stacks will be fully utilized as we expect.
I am not sure if you are referring to the new stacks we are building.
Our fourth stack will be available -- well it finishes construction at the end of this year and it will go into service really next year.
And we are working on developing contracts for that stack.
So I don’t see any underutilization in our capital equipment.
For intervention we are on track.
With regard to refurbishment thank you for bringing that up.
I think this is an important new trend in the industry.
As the subsea equipment starts to mature it needs to be refurbished.
We have been making investments to prepare for that.
We have more than adequate capacity but this is a market that will for us anyway because we have the largest installed base this is a market that’s going to continue to grow and we are ready for that.
And you will see it in the more mature basins like the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
Okay.
Are you making plans at this point to add a fifth stack or are you going to look for contract on the fourth before you begin to initiate construction on the fifth? Actually we have launched manufacturing of both stack no.
5 and stack no.
6.
And our next question comes from Jeff Spittel from Clarkson Capital.
Please go ahead.
I think we've covered a lot of relevant ground so just one for me.
On the surface margin guidance pretty encouraging for the back half of the year.
Is there any element of some pricing momentum embedded in those expectations or is this more just looking at execution and some better throughput there? It's the latter.
I mean we are executing well in our surface business this is about volume.
And our next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Investors.
Please go ahead.
John earlier you said that FMC would be the exclusive supplier to the alliance the four E&amp;Ps but the equipment would be available to other producers.
Just kind of thinking about standardization.
In the best case scenario it sounds like we're almost talking about producers standardizing around FMC's efforts in the joint alliance.
But is there also some kind of standardization that the rest of the industry would participate in? Well Jeff you mean the rest of the industry -- if you mean other operators it will be available to other operators from FMC for that standard.
It is not a standard that will be available to the industry to build and manufacture.
Okay.
And then I guess as a follow-up to just the idea of standardization and you were saying that this might trickle down to more traditional subsea applications.
Can you just kind of comment broadly on what you see in the subsea kit that is possible to be standardized and what's in the kit that will unlikely ever be standardized? Right.
And just to be clear I said I am hopeful that this approach will be used because I think it's well I don’t even know if it’s arguable it's really the best way to improve returns improve project execution and improve reliability.
So I am really hopeful that it will trickle down to other products.
What can best be standardized is the key components of a subsea production system.
And when I talk about standardization I am talking about the quality specs the configuration the design and so forth.
What doesn’t need to be standardized in my view is the layout of the entire field.
That’s not nearly as important.
And that probably should be customized for the unique geology or geography of that subsea development.
What's really critical and what makes the difference in terms of cost lead times and reliability is those key components.
The tree the manifold technology the connection system the controls.
This is what's critical to be standardized and that’s what the partnership with the four operators is geared towards standardizing.
The actual configuration of the field how the equipment will be positioned in the field that will vary field by field.
And our last question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks for giving me another shot here.
Just some longer-term just quick updates on technologies.
If you could just bring us up to speed about the performance of the subsea what the separation system on Marlim how it has performed since you installed it.
And also just give us a quick update on where you stand on your developments on subsea boosting pumps which will service as well as the ESP initiative.
And also if you could comment on how you sort of see the trend between boosting and separation play out regionally over the next couple of years when should we expect things to pick up and where.
Okay.
To start with Marlim.
The Marlim equipment was fully tested in a live environment.
The separation capability of the system met or exceeded Petrobras' original requirements and they were successful in achieving that.
The pumps worked the reinjection happened as planned.
So it's now in Petrobras' eyes fully qualified and meets their functional specs.
So I don’t know -- and that was the system installed on a well tied back to the production platform.
The top side modifications were completed.
Pretty much everything to my knowledge everything that needed to be qualified and tested and proven out was done so.
So now Ole it's beyond the technology it's about where do they want to apply it and their plans to do that.
So I think we are done with the technology qualification.
With regard to boosting where do we stand.
On multiphase helico-axial boosting we are tendering multiple projects as we speak and hopeful of course that we will be -- and which we are fully qualified for and which we fully hope that we will be successful when those awards are made which could be at the end of this year or early next year.
With regard to that outlook for subsea processing there is almost two times what we saw in '14 and '13 the number of subsea processing projects both boosting and separation.
I would say about two-thirds of them are boosting only.
A third or maybe 40% include separation.
You get out to 2016 and you have almost a doubling of the potential projects.
And we know all these projects won't necessarily go forward.
I might add these are not studies or feed studies these are actual hardware -- named projects that include hardware.
So that’s the outlook and the mix is somewhere in there out maybe a third or 40% include separation the balance is boosting.
2015 twice as many projects as we saw in '13 and '14.
2016 even stronger yet.
Okay well thanks for that quick rundown and I understand why you think that the tree count is becoming irrelevant.
So thanks a lot.
I will now turn the call back over to Brad Alexander for closing comments.
This concludes our second quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our Web site beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m.
Eastern time today.
We will conduct our third quarter 2014 conference call on October 22 at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Paulette you can now end the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the FMC Technologies third quarter earnings analyst call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Brad Alexander.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin.
Thank you Ellen.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our third quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today is Maryann Seaman our Chief Financial Officer.
I'll discuss highlights from the quarter Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we will open up the call for your questions.
Total company quarterly revenue was $2 billion with operating profit of $319 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.72 for the quarter.
Earnings were negatively impacted by $0.07 for a nonoperating item that Maryann will discuss in her comments.
We delivered strong quarterly operational results driven by outstanding performance in our subsea business growth from our North America fluid control business and continued strength in our international surface wellhead business.
In subsea technologies margins were 15.7% on $1.3 billion of revenue in the quarter.
Our focus on execution the strength of our backlog and the growth of subsea service revenue drove these results.
We received $1.1 billion of subsea awards in the quarter which included another pre-salt manifold award from Petrobras and the Edradour project from Total.
In addition we continue to see consistent levels of smaller project awards along with increasing levels of subsea service activity.
We're confident in exceeding $5 billion of 2014 subsea inbound which is supported by our 2 recently announced fourth-quarter project awards.
The first of these was the $280 million Wintershall Maria project located offshore Norway.
This is the first call up award received from Wintershall following our recently signed frame agreement to supply subsea production systems for their developments offshore Norway.
We were also awarded the Total Glenlivet project located West of Shetlands in the UK.
Our 2014 awards will provide us with a year-end backlog of approximately $6 billion.
This positions us well in 2015 to deliver another year of record subsea revenue and earnings as our backlog conversion improves and our subsea service revenue increases.
This will drive our 14th consecutive year of overall Company earnings growth.
Our expectation of another strong year of subsea orders in 2015 remains intact with a belief that will be as strong as it is in 2014.
We have a significant list of projects we're currently tracking and conversations with our customers indicate they plan to move forward on these offshore developments.
Because operators remain focused on improving the returns of their deepwater portfolios their interested in standardization has increased significantly.
A good example of this is our joint development agreement with Shell BP Anadarko and ConocoPhillips for the next generation new high pressure high temperature equipment technology.
This was formed as a way to reduce development cost reduced lead times and establish an industry design standard.
For conventional technology the industry recognizes the success of standardization the plays for operators with the lowest development cost and shortest lead times to first oil.
And we've had the most success in driving standardization where we've established long-term relationships in the form of frame agreements with the operators.
Recently we've successfully executed on this strategy by adding 3 new frame partners.
In addition to the frame agreement we signed with Wintershall we've added 2 additional global frame agreements.
We signed a global master services agreement with ConocoPhillips and we're very close to finalizing a global frame agreement to be their preferred supplier of subsea equipment and related services.
As a long-time customer this agreement demonstrates the confidence that they have in FMC Technologies to partner with them in developing their growing portfolio of deepwater assets.
We've also signed a 10-year global frame agreement with BG Group to provide subsea equipment and services for their developments worldwide.
This frame agreement expands on the existing frame agreement that we signed in 2010 with their Norwegian subsidiary.
Turning to our surface technology segment we experienced strong sequential and year-over-year revenue and margin growth.
Our North America fluid control repair and replacement activity has remained strong as customers have increased their overall frac activity and intensity.
Additionally in the quarter we're continuing to receive capital orders but the volatility in recent oil price does pose some risk.
Our surface wellhead business is also performing well.
The international markets have remained robust and we expect this to continue while our North America business continues to improve.
To summarize our current performance subsea revenue continues to grow we're demonstrating solid subsea project execution and we are achieving the margins that we expected.
Subsea inbound is strong and will exceed our $5 billion full-year target.
We will end the year with strong subsea backlog and position 2015 for both revenue and earnings growth.
Lastly we expect 2015 subsea inbound to be as strong as it is this year.
In surface technologies our business continues to strengthen.
Revenue growth in fluid control continued strong performance from surface wellhead international and improved performance from surface wellhead in the US will deliver record earnings this year.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks John.
We delivered strong performance this quarter with record subsea technologies and surface technologies operating profits.
Subsea technologies operating profit was $204 million in the quarter with a margin of 15.7%.
Subsea technologies operating margins improved 490 basis points year over year with operating profit increasing 69%.
We benefited from continued solid execution and higher volumes in all our regions conversion of a favorably price backlog and an improving mix of service and activity.
The quarterly performance is consistent with the mid-teen margins we expected in the second half of the year.
In surface technologies operating profit in the third quarter was $110 million a 47% increase from the prior-year quarter.
Margins were 19.7%.
North American fluid control orders were strong throughout the quarter as both repair and replacement activity and capital orders associated with new fleet construction contributed significantly to the results.
Our international surface wellhead business continued to perform well and turned in a record quarter for both revenue and operating income.
Our positive order flow in the quarter kept our backlog at high levels and positions us very well to finish the year strong.
In the US we're beginning to see the improvements in our service wellhead business as the organizational changes we put in place at the beginning of the year are improving our performance.
Completion services earnings improved in the quarter as we came out of Canadian breakup and activity increased as we forecast.
Surface technologies margins in the fourth quarter should remain strong.
There is however the risk of a late fourth-quarter slowdown in the North American market.
Energy infrastructure operating income for the third quarter was $5 million with a margin of 4.1%.
This performance reflects the negative impact of a correction of previously reported 2014 quarterly operating results made in our automation and control business.
I'll turn to the corporate items now.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $16.1 million.
We expect this expense to be approximately $17 million to $18 million in the fourth quarter.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $35.1 million.
As John indicated we had a nonoperating charge in the third quarter related to an inter-company foreign currency transaction of $17.1 million net of tax or $0.07 per diluted share that caused our actual result to differ from our forecast.
We expect other revenue and expense net to be approximately $30 million of expense in the fourth quarter.
This estimate continues to include an expense associated with the planned de-risking of our pension plan of approximately $20 million and is subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
Our third-quarter tax rate was 34.7% which reflects a larger concentration of US earnings.
We anticipate our 2014 tax rate to be between 33% and 34% for the full year.
Capital spending this quarter was $104 million primarily directed towards subsea technologies' strategic growth initiatives.
We expect capital spending in 2014 to be approximately $400 million.
At the end of the third quarter we had net debt of $836 million.
It is comprised of $512 million of cash and $1.3 billion of debt.
We averaged 237 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
We repurchased 1.019 million shares of stock during the third quarter at an average cost of $56.67 per share.
Let me summarize.
We delivered a strong operational quarter on our subsea technology results came in at the high end of our expectations the result of solid execution on a favorably priced backlog and an improving mix of service activity.
Our surface technologies operating results were driven by the strength in the North American land market as well as continued strong performance in our international surface wellhead business.
As we look to the balance of the year we expect our diluted earnings per share to range between $2.75 to $2.85.
This excludes the second-quarter gain associated with the sale of the material handling products business.
This estimate does include the pension cost estimated in the fourth quarter and the foreign currency charge in the third quarter.
Both our subsea revenue and orders will exceed $5 billion in 2014 as subsea activity has continued to exhibit sustainability throughout the year.
We expect our fourth-quarter subsea margin to be around 15% and now expect full-year subsea technologies margins of at least 14%.
This margin performance continues to support our confidence in 2015 subsea margins of approximately 15% for the year.
The North American land market should remain strong in the fourth quarter absent a slowdown in the – late in the year.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Chuck Minervino with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
John Gremp Good morning Chuck.
Hey I just wanted – John you know in light of the recent move in crude prices I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your updated views on field development CapEx in 2015? It sounds like you upped your order outlook for 2015 a little bit from maybe your prior PowerPoint presentations.
Can you just talk a little bit about that development CapEx? And in your conversations with your customers have you sensed yet any changes in plans or expectations for spending? Chuck our conversations with the customers have been and remain pretty much the same as they have been all year.
And that is they are clearly – they are focused on capital discipline.
They want to proceed with developing their extensive deepwater portfolios but they're very focused on improving returns.
And that's the discussion that we're having with them.
And they've had some success.
I mentioned in the last quarterly call the award of Kaombo the progress that BP has made on Shah Deniz and what they're making on Mad Dog are all examples of how the operators are actually being successful in re-working these projects to improve returns so they can go forward with the development of their projects.
I think in 2014 we saw that happening in the sense that there's been a number of awards that have been made recently over the last 2 months.
We announced awards that were in the third quarter and then we announced 2 awards that will show up in the fourth quarter fairly significant ones.
The smaller project activity remained very strong.
And in fact the third quarter it went up to almost $900 million of subsea inbound for us up from the previous quarter which was about – a little over $800 million.
So that remains strong.
And then we are quite confident and expect to book another major subsea award between now and the end of the year.
So from our perspective operators are in fact proceeding with their development plans despite the pressure to demonstrate lower capital discipline and improved returns.
As you look into 2015 the list of subsea projects remains very healthy.
Now a lot of those projects the major projects anyway are African projects and are always subject to national oil company risk of being moved around a little bit.
But that list is – remains healthy.
The activity in the Gulf of Mexico is expected in 2015 to remain strong and that's what gives us confidence that the 2015 inbound will be as strong as what we're seeing now in 2014.
And I think this is all – again it's driven not so much by the very recent changes in commodity prices but more what we've seen over the last year in terms of their desire to improve returns and proceed with developing these deepwater projects.
Thank you.
And just one follow-up.
You've been around this space for quite some time and it's obviously well-known that floater day rates have been falling for quite some time.
In your experience in this space how much of a factor does falling day rates play in maybe stimulating some new demand by your customers that may not have been there before? Chuck I don't know about stimulating new demand but we know that the drilling component of a deepwater development is the single largest component.
And obviously rig rates are the single largest component of the drilling cost.
So deepwater rig rates dropping whatever they've dropped 30% plus will have a material effect on the overall cost of developing a deepwater prospect.
And it should improve the returns and lower the capital required.
Whether or not it opens up new projects or just secures the projects that they were intended to go forward with I'm not sure.
But clearly it improves the returns.
The next question is from Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
John how much of your surface business is the frac tree manifold rental frac water flow back and wire line stuff these days? How big is that business? It's still in the minority.
The biggest part of service and as you know the most profitable part is fluid control followed by surface wellhead particularly in our international market.
And then the third largest component is flow back completion service and frac rental.
So it's third-highest component of surface technologies.
Okay.
That's good.
I appreciate that.
And orders this year will exceed your $5 billion.
They will hit $6 billion or so.
And they should be that level next year.
On your revenue for subsea I know at the beginning of this year there was talk about the book to bill issue possibly being below one-to-one.
Is 2015 going to be above one-to-one in your current forecast and plan? Let's start with 2014.
You said $6 billion and our target is above $5 billion.
$5 billion I'm sorry.
Yes.
We are well on track to do that when you add the 2 announcements that we've made.
Our expectation of another major project to be award to us between now and the end of the year and strong smaller projects in service.
We will be above well above $5 billion this year.
Our current book to bill in 2014 is 1.0.
I'm confident full year it will be above 1.0 in 2014.
We will roll into 2015 with very strong backlog better conversion rates as Maryann said and we'll show revenue growth in 2015 over 2014.
Now I said that we expect 2015 based on the list of projects to be as good as 2014.
How much better than 2014 to have a book to bill at 1.0 or better is going to – we have to wait till we get there.
And we have got to see if these Africa projects which are named and they are being tendered if they actually stay in the year.
If they stay in the year then we've got one situation.
If they don't we have another.
So I think – I guess I could say I would expect to certainly be close to 1.0 book to bill but we've got to wait until we get a little bit closer to call that out.
I understand.
Thank you very much and good quarter good margins.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
And thank you very much.
And yes very impressive margins in the subsea.
Norway looks like it's slowing down a little bit near-term.
A year ago when you had margin issues it was because of a mismatch of cost and revenue and largely centered around Norway.
How confident do you feel about your margin outlook in light of a geographic mix that is likely to play out? Ole you are right.
I think there is going to be some shifting geographically.
You're going to see Africa very strong.
I think you're going to see Gulf of Mexico strong.
Clearly the North Sea is not going to be as strong given by our largest customer in North Sea Statoil's pullback.
But our Norwegian organization also supplies most of our major projects to Africa.
So although the Norwegian market may be a little soft while Statoil goes through what they going through our Eastern region will be there to support the big projects in West Africa.
So I don't see – we have no expectations of any margin erosion coming out of Norway.
They will just shift their activity from being more Norway-centric to Africa-centric as they have historically.
And as I mentioned the Africa market is going to be one of the strongest in major project awards in 2015 and our Eastern region will benefit as a result of that.
Okay.
Just checking that we're not missing anything on the sustainability of the margins.
The follow-up question would just be in terms of what you see for next year in terms of order intake you mentioned a similar dollar number.
I presume that entails maybe a subtle mix shift within how that's put together.
Could you shed a little light on what's going on at that level? Are you assuming more revenue per tree the same number of trees more of a subsea after-market component? Or how is your business shifting within that similar – let's say similar dollar in order intake number? You're right Ole.
If you look at the number of trees that we think were awarded in the industry year to date including the third quarter it's going to be just barely over 200 I think.
And we will obviously have should have – the industry should have a reasonably good fourth quarter.
But trees are becoming less relevant to the overall subsea revenue market for exactly the reasons that you mentioned.
We see service revenue growing.
We see more infrastructure cost.
And I know something that you have talked a lot about is the coming importance of subsea processing which all these things will keep raising the revenue per tree.
And I absolutely see that in 2015 that you're going to see revenue per tree growth in 2015 as you see subsea processing projects awarded the continued growth of additional subsea services.
You see more manifolds and infrastructure and also even the more complex.
We talk about high pressure high temperature trees.
The cost of this high pressure high temperature equipment is going to be more than lower pressure equipment.
So all these things contribute to revenue growth per tree.
And I think that will be an important part of the shift really going forward.
The next question is from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Back to the order front here with subsea.
Composition of your orders this year has been pretty much – you've had Jangkrik Shah Deniz you've had the TBR Manifolds.
And then now we've had the Wintershall Maria and Glenlivet.
So really West Africa or Africa in general or sub-Sahara Africa hasn't been all that prominent.
And it looks to be disproportionately weighted for next year in terms of importance.
Is that correct? With Agbami Cameia 1506 maybe Bonga Southwest et cetera there could be a very large concentration of orders coming from that particular region? Bill that's exactly right and we need to start talking about Africa instead of West Africa.
When you start – when you think about Golfinho and Mozambique and what happens in Tanzania you're exactly right.
Yes.
You're right.
When I look at the project list for 2015 it is heavily heavily weighted towards Africa.
When I look at the composition for 2014 we were successful in Africa mostly on where we were the incumbent like follow-on orders for Agbami or our partners like Cobalt Cameia and so forth.
But you're – and we also entered I think a BP blockade teen project.
So there we did have West Africa inbound but year-over-year comparisons? Big shift.
But with regard to – there have been 3 projects that you guys have been targeting and maybe you've been awarded them.
I haven't noticed them.
But Cobalt Cameia Agbami and 1506.
What's the status of those 3 particular projects at this juncture? Agbami we are the incumbent having provided all the Agbami trees for Chevron throughout the life of the project.
And they have real requirements.
We're working with Chevron to have those manifest into awards.
But the progress is we expect those awards to come to us whether they'll make it between now and the end of the year is – that's kind of a West Africa thing.
That's well – we're well into that.
When you look at Cobalt Cameia there's a – we are Cobalt's partner so they have standardized on our equipment.
So we're in the favored position to provide that equipment.
But again it's West Africa so Cobalt has had conversations to finish up with Senegal before they proceed.
There's a possibility that they could be between now and the end of the year possibly into next year but it's imminent.
It's not going to move outside of 2015.
And then 1506 with ENI in Angola that project is well into the evaluation and proposals and approvals from Senegal.
So we would expect 1506 to also be imminent.
So those are 3 projects that FMC targeted and are close to being awarded if not this year early next year.
The next question is from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Maryann my question for you is – I guess it's really just looking at more than your term subsea backlog numbers here.
And John I know you gave a $6 billion target for year end.
But I'm just looking at 3Q here and I just doing the typical formula of bookings less revenue.
It looks like your backlog is actually about $250 million less than otherwise one would think.
And I'm just curious was there some FX translation adjustments there? I know that had been an issue in years past.
But is that causing backlog to be a bit less than it otherwise would be? And maybe can you talk about that as how it impacts 4Q if at all? And how to think about the conversion factor for revenue if that is in fact stated lower? Sure Bill.
So you're absolutely right.
We had about $280 million worth of impact in the backlog due to translation on that backlog.
If you go through the math of what we recognized what we inbound et cetera we've got translation there.
As you know when we look at where the backlog comes from we've got a lot in the Eastern region followed by Brazil and the strength of the dollar certainly had impact on that.
So you're correct.
When we talk about [indiscernible] that backlog into 2015 as I think we have talked about in the past this year we had lower conversion rates partly because of the makeup of the projects that we had.
That being the large Egina project of $1.2 billion and then also the orders from Petrobras having a longer tail.
When you look at the inbound that John has talked about for 2014 it follows if you will that more traditional S-curve.
So our expectation for next year that being 2015 in terms of top line for subsea would be a return to more traditional conversion rates.
We would expect to see at least in these early stages higher growth on the top line than we did this year.
The other thing to keep in mind in the backlog when we talk about that $6 billion of backlog in subsea is it is largely equipment.
For the most part we do not backlog services.
So when we talk about a $6 billion backlog in subsea it is largely equipment backlog.
Hard to predict actually what's going to happen in terms of the strength of the dollar going forward.
But absent that that would be somewhat of a landscape that we talk about for 2015.
And the FX translation impact doesn't really affect I guess since cost are also in those local dollars.
There's no real P&amp;L impact.
Is that a fair way to think about it? That's correct.
Okay.
My follow-up question is just a way to think about 4Q and we think the full-year guidance here.
And we've got a $0.10 spread for the full year.
I'm just curious it's a pretty big wide fairway here for just one quarter.
What kind of puts and takes as we think about it John or Maryann as to how you bridge the gap between the low end and high end here in terms of expectations? Yes so let me focus on subsea for a moment and then I'll address surface.
With respect to subsea we had a really good strong quarter as you saw in the third quarter.
These margins for the back half of the year are very consistent with what we've been talking about.
I think as you might have heard in my guidance we certainly think margins of at least 14% from a full-year perspective are what we see for subsea.
We do have a mix of things coming through in our backlog as you know right? Depending on the allocation of the amount of services the projects that come through.
It's not a perfect science.
And then of course how well we execute.
We did really well in the third quarter.
The other impact in our fourth quarter for subsea we have a higher R&amp;D budget.
It's consistent from a full year but higher R&amp;D.
On the surface side we see continued strength in the fourth quarter absent a slowdown as we talked about.
So the margins that we projected last quarter in the range of 17 to 18 we certainly see achieving the high end of the range as I mentioned in my guidance.
So nothing abnormal there.
The next question is from James West with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning John Maryann.
Good morning James.
John is there any reason to think that subsea orders in 2016 shouldn't show a pretty significant ramp-up relative to (inaudible) 2015 – relative to (inaudible)14? It seems like we're troughing out here in orders.
I recognize there is a lot of stuff from West Africa which can be pushed around a little bit but what's your gut feel in terms of the order rate? Do you think we could be in a position where we see a nice acceleration in orders? 2016 is a long ways away given the volatility.
Sorry 2015.
My bad.
Okay.
Let's get that right.
Okay 2015.
There we go.
My – now I feel better.
My – it's really what I said in the prepared remarks.
I'm impressed with the list of projects identified discoveries that the EMP companies have targeted to develop.
First oil in the 2018 2017 range which means they have to start buying equipment in 2015.
And if that list of projects that I've been describing throughout the call if that weren't strong then I wouldn't have as much confidence in 2015 inbound.
Secondly when I look at the strength in the Gulf of Mexico and the development of lower tertiary they don't get as much play because they're not large enough to announce.
But they represent an increasingly large portion of our inbound.
And as the market leader in the Gulf of Mexico built on the many many alliances and frame agreements we have that gives me further confidence that 2015 inbound should be solid.
Now a lot of these big projects are going to be dependent on the operators and quite frankly our success in helping improve the returns so they can go forward.
But the inventory of deepwater discoveries sizable discoveries that the operators would like to develop is there.
The question is can we develop in a cost-effective way at the high returns that the EMP companies demand now.
We've had some success with Kaombo Mad Dog and some of the others.
And I understand even Rosebank is being reworked to proceed.
As long as that success continues I'm confident that deepwater portfolios of these major operators will be developed.
And that will give us a robust 2015 subsea inbound for FMC and possibly for the industry.
Okay.
Good.
Then we definitely agree with that.
And under your fracturing related businesses with the recent pullback in commodity prices are you seeing any kind of change in the order rate or the conversations you are having with the fracking companies about the ordering of equipment? Or is it just all systems go right now? James first of all this is a short cycle business.
So it's going to turn on a dime.
So I think I wouldn't – it may be all systems go for the next hour and then it could change again.
So what they are – we have not seen anything.
We've heard that maybe some of the smaller frac companies are pulling back on CapEx.
Maybe the larger – some of the signals from the larger pressure pumping companies are more steady as she goes.
So I think there's a couple of different messages there.
Secondly there's a difference between additional capacity and the possible increase in consumables.
We know that the frac intensity is growing.
We know that the consumable portion of our business has a better chance of staying strong if there is a pullback.
And if anything is pulled back it would be on capacity addition.
So that's pretty much what we're hearing on the frac side.
The next question is from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Kurt.
Hey John.
Giving a lot of really good color and insights vis-a-vis what you're seeing out there.
Obviously the mentality on the marketplace and the investor base is that the subsea order growth rates are going to slow substantially over the course of the next couple of years.
And a lot of that obviously driven by the drop in oil price over the past 3 or 4 months.
Given what you guys are trying to do with standardization and reduced cost dynamics and so on and given your experience in this business are we looking at a period of time where things are going to get pushed to the right more frequently now do you think? Or have the oil companies in 2014 gone through their cost reassessments and ready to move forward more aggressively? Kurt I think they're just working through that process.
You see some operators maybe like Statoil being more aggressive in their prioritization and pullback.
But then you see other operators with their big portfolios proceeding ahead.
So at this point to claim that there's a slow substantially and a decrease in subsea orders I don't think it's good to declare the patient dead when there's still breathing.
This is not – I don't see anything like that.
I think that's maybe an over-reaction.
I think they have to work through it.
We know that they want to develop their – every operator that we have talked to remains completely committed to their deepwater portfolio.
And they've got to work through their capital allocation.
They have to work through projects where they want to improve their returns and they are in the process of doing that.
So I think that would be overstated to say that there's going to be a substantial reduction in subsea activity.
All right.
Thanks.
And then one follow-up for Maryann.
So Maryann you indicate that subsea margins in 2015 of 15% or so looks to be achievable.
Now given the improvement in margins that you have had throughout the course of the past year and a half and the exit that you are seeing here in the third quarter of 14% 15% would almost seem like a disappointment relative to what you guys have put up in the third quarter.
So can you provide some additional maybe color or clarity on that 15% for 2015? Yes.
Sure Kurt.
So as you know it's certainly not meant to be guidance here for 2015.
As we get into our – when we provide you full-year results in our fourth quarter we will provide more comprehensive guidance.
Certainly just trying to give you an indication on the strength and the conviction of our ability to maintain the execution and the performance we have.
We're seeing our margins and backlog improve.
So when we get to next year 2014 we will give you – or excuse me 2015 we will give you some real solid guidance.
But that's not meant to be guidance.
It certainly just meant to give you an indication of our confidence.
The next question is from Doug Becker with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
John you highlighted that Africa is going to be a disproportionate amount of the subsea order growth going forward.
This has obviously been an area that's been difficult to execute in for FMC and others.
What steps have you taken to address this growth in the region and make sure that the good execution we've seen in the last couple of quarters is maintained? A number of steps.
First of all a lot of the equipment that goes into Africa comes from our Houston organization as well as Norway.
And so all of the improvements in execution that we put in place last year then you have seen the results of this year in the margin improvement.
That's the same execution improvement that will be applied to Africa.
So I think the work that we've done over the last year and a half has strengthened our ability to execute.
We're now producing a record number of subsea Christmas trees.
Our on-time delivery performance is at record levels.
And you have seen in the last 3 and 4 quarters a significant change in margin erosion liquidated damages and so forth.
So when we think of Africa execution we should think of our Eastern region and Houston organizations improvement on execution.
And that will all accrue to the projects in Africa.
Now Africa does require a substantial amount of local content and we're getting better and better and better at that.
The Egina project for Total in Nigeria has the highest level of local content that the industry has ever provided into Nigeria.
And that project is on track and we're managing the in-country portion of that very well.
We've made substantial investments in Angola adding a machine shop expanding our assembly and test facilities so we have more than adequate capacity to handle the in-country component of our Angolan business.
In Ghana we are the only in-country manufacturer of an assembly and test of subsea Christmas trees demonstrating the on-time delivery for the Ghana Jubilee tree.
So we feel very confident about where we are in really all locations in Africa.
So I – when you're providing equipment in Africa there's always execution risk.
But we think we've made a step change in our execution of subsea equipment for the African market.
Sounds encouraging.
And then on subsea services obviously an area that you've been highlighting for growth.
Maybe just some of the puts and takes there.
What could drive expectations higher in subsea services growth in 2015? And was it services that accounted for the base orders approaching $900 million in the quarter versus say $850 million or so in the second quarter? I'll answer the second part of your question first.
Services certainly did help the growth but we had a lot of call-off orders in the third quarter from being the incumbent or from our alliance partners.
It was something like 80% plus of the small orders that we got in the third quarter were related to either an alliance partner or we were the incumbent supplier.
But services were up in the third quarter over the second quarter so it did contribute.
Going forward in 2015 we expect our joint venture with Edison Chouest FTO to contribute to revenue – or inbound growth and revenue growth in 2015.
As you know we had our fourth Riserless Light Well Intervention stack later this year and early next year and that will contribute to revenue growth.
And our whole services strategy starts – services growth strategy starts to mature and we will see the results of that or the effects of that in 2015.
So we absolutely have an expectation that services will grow and subsea services will grow in 2015 versus 2014.
The next question is from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Company Securities</strong> Good morning.
Just one question for me and it actually relates to Doug's question on subsea services where I wanted to get your thoughts on the longer-term drivers for subsea services.
And here I'm thinking specifically – I've thought of the insulation piece of the service – subsea services portfolio as being the biggest chunk.
But do you see that continuing to be the case in 2015 versus well access and asset management? And then I was hoping you could just frame the order of magnitude of subsea services growth that you saw in 2014 year over year versus what you might be thinking for 2015? Let's start with the second part of your question.
In 2014 we saw services growth.
A lot of that was just coming from our standard installation growth shipping more trees shipping more manifolds the installation services or our conventional subsea services to support that business grew in 2014.
It's the additional services that you're referring to – the Riserless Light Well Intervention.
We had a very strong year in 2014.
Of course we had the recertification of the stacks earlier in the year.
That's now behind us.
So we finished the year stronger.
But it's the additional stack that we'll roll out in 2015.
We'll grow Riserless Light Well Intervention services in 2015.
And then the other service areas like asset management that we expect to contribute to service revenue growth in 2015.
If that gets that covered – Pickering Holt &amp; Company Securities</strong> Thanks.
The next question is from Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning John.
Could you spend a second addressing the pricing that you think might be in backlog? Are we seeing any kind of pricing improvement on the stuff you're bidding right now? Or is it just basically capturing any kind of cost change? Actually Marshall our margins in backlog in the third quarter were again up from the previous quarter.
Again this is margins and backlog now so it's different than pricing.
But it's the exiting of the lower margin the remnants of the lower margin business we took years ago being replaced by stronger margins that we bid over the course of the last year.
So our margins and backlog continue to improve.
But your question was more about the – maybe the pricing environment and we haven't seen much of a change to be honest.
Most of the conversations again that we're having with operators are around how can we reduce costs? How can we improve our returns? As opposed to squeezing the margins of the subsea equipment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But it sounds like some of that lower-priced backlog has phased itself out.
Is that fair? Yes it is phasing itself out.
And then I think the margins that you are seeing will start to flatten out over time as it gets phased out.
But again we're not seeing any – to answer maybe your – try to answer your question.
We're not seeing any deterioration in our margins and backlog.
But you're right as it phases out which it will largely do through this year we will see maybe a more stabilizing of the margins going forward.
The next question is from Rob MacKenzie with Iberia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Great job summarizing so far John.
I guess my question to you – actually first for Maryann.
Maryann can you also help us a little bit more with the margins in the energy infrastructure segment? You had talked about a correction from previously accrued profit in the first half of the year 4% margin this quarter.
How should we expect that to return now? Because we also had an impact of – in the second quarter at least a divestiture of the material handling business right? So what should we think about in terms of going-forward margins there? Yes.
So for the fourth quarter we're looking at more traditional margins in that energy infrastructure group.
We think all of that automation and control issue as I mentioned to you is completed.
So we're looking at margins on a full-year basis in a range of 10% to 10.5%.
We have strength coming out of the measurement solutions division as well as loading systems the 2 strongest businesses within that sector.
Okay.
Thank you and then separately back to John.
What kind of lead time do you think you have on moving parts in the fluid control business? Is it really very short term and unpredictable as to when and how that might wane due to falling commodity prices? The cycle time in fluid control's business is very very short.
They carry 30 to 40 days backlog particularly for their flow line products.
So if there was to be a falloff in demand which is not what we're projecting – a falloff in demand you would see it within really a month or two.
It happens very very quickly.
The next question is from Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good quarter.
And most of my questions have been answered but John just maybe a general one for you.
Beyond the obvious execution and the impact of the recent drop in oil prices what are you watching closely as you go into 2015? Are there any concerns within the organization things that are within your control? Thanks Michael.
The things that we are focused on is strengthening and expanding our partnerships with the operators.
This is the foundation of our Company's market-leading position in deepwater.
Regardless of what happens next year or the year after the strength of these partnerships is what's going to keep FMC in a leadership position.
Having added 3 partnerships which we announced in the call this morning that is a big deal to us.
That means that these operators have decided we are going to use FMC's technology whether they're – regardless of the pace at which they develop their deepwater portfolio.
So adding partnerships expanding those partnerships strengthening them.
Those are foremost in FMC's focus area and is something that we control.
Secondly is technology.
You can't be the market leader in the complex world of subsea if you're not the technical leader.
And that's why the partnership that we formed for high pressure high temperature equipment was so important to FMC.
And so Maryann mentioned our R&amp;D spending in the fourth quarter.
We are going to remain focused on making sure that our Company rolls out the next generation cost-effective subsea equipment.
And then finally sure we are pleased with the progress we made in execution but execution matters in this industry.
And we know that it matters to our partners.
The best way to destroy returns on a deepwater project? Miss the delivery affect first oil and have a big cost overrun.
So we know that to the extent that we can continue to improve execution going forward and shorten lead times that we'll support our partners and help them improve their returns.
So these are the 3 areas our Company is focused on that are within our control.
And we expect 2015 and 2016 to be better years for us in each of these categories.
That's great.
Thanks John.
You're welcome.
The next question is from Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
We've obviously covered a lot of ground.
But I'm curious to come back to the subsea I guess I'm curious for your thoughts around Nigeria.
We have covered like I said West Africa a little bit.
But how important is it to – do you think to the progress of the Nigerian project to get a petroleum law passed? Obviously the Senate is trying to say some nice things about expediting it I guess once it is presented to them.
But maybe your sense of how much of it is – activity is contingent on that please? Obviously I'm a little removed from the impacts of petroleum law but I can speak to what I saw.
3 years ago there was essentially no Nigerian projects that were awarded because they had not successfully passed a Nigerian law and we were worried about it then.
And then the operators maybe because of the price of oil maybe because of things I don't understand decided to proceed with developing their deepwater projects despite the fact that a petroleum law was not signed.
And then came the Shell projects the Total projects the Chevron projects despite – and even the Exxon projects despite the fact that a petroleum law had not been passed.
So it's hard for me to gauge if the absence of a petroleum law will in fact affect the development of the Nigerian projects – the future Nigerian projects that are targeted for 2015 and beyond because it didn't the last time.
Right.
That's interesting color.
Okay.
A related follow-up I guess.
But maybe just one that hardly counts is if you could share the number of trees that were in-bounded in the quarter just for old habit's sake? And then if you could speak to – you mentioned boosting in response to an earlier question or maybe processing more generally.
But could you update us? There been a handful of projects I guess on the list for some time.
Did those – has that list remains the same? What are your thoughts about how 2015 might proceed? Might a couple of those on the list finally get – or come to fruition so to speak and get awarded? I know Appomattox is on that list for example and I think you have some optimism around that coming through in the next year.
So if you could speak to that project list please? Okay.
FMC in-bounded 30 – at least something like 38 trees in the quarter.
Quest hasn't published the whole industry total but I imagine it will be just under 100 or between – I imagine it will be between 60 and 80 or somewhere in that range.
I really don't know.
But we in-bounded 38 trees.
With regard to the major subsea projects that could be awarded in 2015 these are projects that have been fully tendered at least a handful of them – at least maybe 30% or 40% of them have been fully tendered.
And they are in the evaluation process.
So you would think that those projects have a pretty good chance of proceeding and staying in the 2015 timeframe.
You have a couple of others that are just starting the tendering process and those probably are the ones that may be a little bit more risk to move to the right.
The next question is from Ed Muztafago with Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for squeezing me in there.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit – you highlighted the improvement in or expected improvement in lower tertiary work.
And clearly from a drilling perspective that stuff is significantly more service-intensive.
Can you all talk to maybe what the equipment intensity of the lower tertiary project is like? We're hearing that they really don't work without things like boosting or separation et cetera.
That's right.
There's some lower tertiary is developed without – at least in the initial stages without subsea boosting.
But you're correct in that subsea processing is an important technology for fully developing the lower tertiary in the Gulf of Mexico.
Which again is why it was so important for us to have the high pressure high temperature technology to complement the subsea processing equipment that we hope to supply when the lower tertiary gets to that point of development.
Okay.
And further the joint venture we have with Edison Chouest and the activity of our FTO joint venture is also going to come into play in developing the lower tertiary.
Okay.
And does that stuff command 2 times the dollar revenue that a typical subsea development would? And feel for that or… Yes the high pressure high temperature equipment is not going to be less expensive than lower pressure lower temperature equipment.
So clearly it's more expensive.
And when you add the process equipment on the seabed you're going to incur those costs.
But remember that processing equipment that you are putting on the seabed is equipment you don't have to put on the topside facilities.
So I think there might be a transfer of the revenue from topside facility to subsea in developing the lower tertiary.
But all good for you.
And then just as an unrelated follow-up.
The last time things slowed down a little bit I think we were all surprised by the proliferation of tie back activity that went on.
And just as you look forward in the lower oil price environment if we do see a slowdown do you all think there's the potential that in 2015 the onesies and twosies market could substantially surprise everyone? And generate a lot more inflow for FTI than what people might be expecting? I think you're on the right track.
Nobody knows what this new environment – it's just really only occurred in the last 2 weeks; how it's actually going to manifest itself in terms of activity levels.
But one sensible thing is to look backwards on what happened the last time we went through a downturn.
So I think that's meaningful to think about tie backs and small orders increasing.
It certainly makes sense if the infrastructure is there the returns on a tie back are going to be better than a big infrastructure project.
The problem is longer term to really replace the declining oil that's required by the market these bigger fields have to be developed.
You can't meet the world's supply over the long term just by doing tie backs.
But certainly the returns are better maybe in the short term if they go through a little cycle.
And that was the last question for today.
I'd like to turn the call back to Brad Alexander for closing remarks.
This concludes our third quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 PM Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our fourth quarter 2014 conference call on February 11 2015 at 9:00 AM Eastern time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Ellen you may now end the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Brad Alexander.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin.
Good morning.
And welcome to FMC Technologies' fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
With me today is Maryann Seaman our CFO.
I'll begin my comments today focusing on our performance both in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
I’ll then discuss our current 2015 market outlook.
Maryann will provide specifics on our quarterly and full year financial performance and our financial outlook for 2015.
And then we will open up the call for your questions.
2014 was a very successful year for FMC Technologies.
We achieved record revenue and operating income in both our Subsea Technologies and our Surface Technologies segment.
Company earnings were $0.72 per diluted share for the quarter and a record $2.72 for the year.
This excludes the gain related to the sale of our Material Handling business and represents a 30% increase over our prior year performance.
Maryann will provide further detail on two items that impacted our earnings.
Company revenue for the quarter was $2.2 billion taking our full year total to $7.9 billion an 11% increase from 2013.
In Subsea we successfully executed our significant backlog.
Our focus on execution that began four years ago has greatly improved our ability to perform well at a much higher activity level.
Subsea revenue for example is almost double over the same four-year period.
We've also benefited from the growth of our Subsea Services business.
The strategic focus we’ve placed on service has resulted in the development of a sustainable source of growth while raising our margin profile.
Again our focus on execution delivered solid fourth quarter Subsea margins at 14.5% and our full year margins averaged 14.2% a 260 basis point improvement from last year.
Fourth quarter Subsea orders totaled $1.7 billion bringing our full year total to $5.5 billion.
This resulted in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.2 for the quarter and 1.1 for the year.
The total includes our announced awards for the Chevron Agbami project in Nigeria the ENI 1506 award in Angola and the Wintershall Maria project in Norway.
Just as significant our margins and backlog increased again in the quarter.
Surface Technologies fourth quarter revenue was $584 million driven by the strength of our international surface wellhead business and our North American fluid control business.
Our international wellhead business continued to deliver exceptional results.
We've established a significant market presence in the Middle East that’s enabled us to maintain a solid backlog while continuing to improve our margins.
Our North America fluid control sales activity was strong for the quarter as order activity held up until December.
Overall our quarterly segment margins of almost 20% are at the highest we’ve delivered in 2014.
Turning to 2015 we are responding to the slowdown in our industry as a result of the severe declines in oil prices.
We will leverage the momentum of our execution improvements and the strong year-end backlog from Subsea and Surface International.
We are responding quickly and significantly to the slowdown in our North America businesses by reducing discretionary and capital spending.
Most impactful we have begun the process of reducing headcount companywide by approximately 10%.
The most significant reductions will come from North America where rapid activity declines are occurring in this short cycle market.
We were also using this is an opportunity to strengthen our Subsea cost position.
The improvements to processes we made in our Subsea business have not only improved our quality and on-time performance but they’ve improved our efficiency.
These efficiency gains positions us to deliver a level of activity in 2015 comparable to 2014 with the smaller leaner Subsea organization.
Again we expect to leverage our execution momentum and strong backlog to not only successfully manage through the downturn but emerge stronger in the recovery.
Regarding our outlook for Subsea orders we do not expect our 2015 Subsea orders to be as strong as 2014.
As we previously discussed many of the larger awards we have -- had expected this year are in Africa.
Historically these awards involve national oil companies and have a greater propensity for delay.
And in today's current environment the risk of project delay is now greater.
Although Subsea projects are proceeding including the awards we received in the fourth quarter most operators are reassessing their project portfolios looking for ways to achieve significant cost reductions.
This is a process that began last year before energy prices began falling and the importance has now become much greater.
FMC Technologies has been and continues to be active and directly involve in the reevaluation of projects particularly with our partners.
As a partner we are proactive in proposing alternative approaches to project development that includes adopting cost-effective FMC’s standards early acceptance of new technologies and different business models that reduce the total cost of development.
An example of our success and standardization is the 20 000 psi 350 degree standard specification for Subsea equipment accepted by a multi-operator consortium.
Our investments in technology focused on the production system offer a step change in savings on equipment cost.
Through our unique partnerships we have the ability to be involved early in design concepts that can optimize the full field development cost.
And in today's environment operators are much more open to different approaches that can result in significant reduction to their development costs.
Shifting now to Surface Technologies we are now experiencing the effects of the significant slowing in the North American land market.
U.S.
rig count has fallen by almost 500 rigs since the middle of November.
We anticipate this decline continuing over the coming months as oil and gas prices have fallen past levels that suppose most current activity.
We are now taking actions to address the reduced volumes we will experience in 2015 and we are confident these steps will allow us to effectively manage through the downturn while at the same time not sacrificing our ability to adjust when the cyclical market recovers.
Our North America Surface Technologies activity should remain I am sorry our non-North American Surface Technologies activity should remain healthy in 2015.
We have continued to grow our market position internationally most predominantly in the Middle East and expect that backlog that we've built will help us maintain revenue levels similar to 2014.
Customer activity outside North America is typically more resilient through market cycles.
But we are prepared to take action should we see markets soften beyond the current expectations.
In conclusion the performance in 2014 delivered record results but it also established positive execution momentum that will enable us to successfully overcome the challenges in the current market.
We are taking early and meaningful action to stay ahead of the decline in activity.
Deepwater and shale remain an important source for oil over future decades.
As a result continue to be an important part of operator’s portfolios.
To develop these assets requires forward thinking approach and FMC Technologies is proactively engaged with our partners working on new ways to successfully reduce development costs and improve project returns.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details in the quarter and for the full year and provide a more detailed explanation of our 2015 expectations.
Thanks John.
Our fourth quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.72.
Included in the quarterly results is $26 million or $0.09 per diluted share of foreign currency losses due to the further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Fourth quarter operational performance was strong across all of our three segments.
Subsea revenue was $1.4 with operating margins of 14.5%.
Surface Technologies revenue was $584 million with operating margins of 19.9%.
And Energy Infrastructure revenue was $138 million with operating margins of 9.9%.
Other revenue and expenses included $25 million or $0.07 per diluted share of costs associated with actions taken to de-risk our defined benefit plan.
These actions were forecasted.
Let me provide further detail on the segment results.
Subsea Technologies operating profit was $208 million in the fourth quarter.
Operating profit improved 12% year-over-year when excluding the $23 million of recognized revenue and operating profit associated with an adjustment for Angolan withholding taxes included in our 2013 results.
The improving margin profile of our backlog along with the efficiencies gained from the actions we have taken to improve operational performance played a significant role in our full year margin performance.
Additionally we have benefited from the continued growth of our Subsea services capabilities.
Subsea inbound in 2014 was $5.5 billion and provides a solid base for 2015 revenues and profit.
Surface Technologies generated fourth quarter operating profit of $116 million as both our fluid control and surface wellhead businesses activity levels remained strong throughout most of the fourth quarter.
Surface wellhead sales for both the fourth quarter and full year represent a new record.
Fluid control fourth quarter operating income and margins were strong and sales remained at high levels through the majority of the quarter.
However completion services fourth quarter sales activity was flat sequentially and operating income was down due to disappointing activity in Canadian markets.
Orders for Surface Technologies for the quarter were $498 million.
Orders for international wellhead continued to remain at strong levels but order activity began slowing for both North America fluid control and surface wellhead.
Backlog now stands at $654 million for this segment.
Energy Infrastructure generated fourth quarter operating profit of $13.7 million.
Now for the quarter corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $18.5 million.
Other income and expense net reflects expense of $46.9 million.
This includes the previously discussed charge of $24.9 million or $0.07 per diluted share of cost associated with actions taken to de-risk our defined benefit pension plan.
This also includes foreign exchange losses of $26 million or $0.09 per diluted share due to the further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Capital spending this quarter was $121 million primarily directed towards Subsea Technologies infrastructure and service asset investments.
For the full year our capital spending was $404 million.
We repurchased approximately 2.5 million shares of stock in the fourth quarter at an average price of $47.79 per share.
For the full year we repurchased 4.9 million shares at an average cost of $51.01.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had net debt of $670 million.
It was comprised of $639 million of cash and $1.3 billion of debt.
Looking at 2015 we have reasonably good visibility of revenues and operating profits for our Subsea business given the backlog of $5.8 billion.
In Subsea Technologies we expect full year revenue of $4.9 billion to $5.1 billion.
This estimate reflects the few changes in assumptions from earlier estimate a strong U.S.
dollar impacting 2015 projections by approximately $300 million a reduced amount of book in turn revenue given a lower 2015 inbound expectations and a flattish year-over-year service activity.
With the current margins in our backlog and the level of execution we expect to continue delivering we are confident in our ability to attain average Subsea margins for the full year of approximately 15%.
Moving to our Surface Technologies segment while difficult to project given the current pace of rigs coming out of the U.S.
market our Surface Technologies revenue will fall from 2014 levels.
With our large international backlog and our strengthened market position we expect to have another strong year in international surface wellhead with performance similar to 2014.
For our North American business we are currently assuming a U.S.
rig count reduction between 700 to 800 rigs from last year’s peak.
At this level we would expect Surface Technologies segment revenue to fall between 15% and 20%.
In fluid control we are seeing reduced activity and therefore expect volumes to decline sequentially in the first quarter with continued weakening in subsequent quarters given the recent slowdown in orders due to reduced activity levels.
Activity levels from surface wellhead North America and completion services will follow similar patterns.
Headcount reductions commensurate with current inbound volume have been completed and additional plans are in place to further reduce headcount in response to continued weakening in the market.
We will take actions as appropriate for order inbound levels to protect operating margins.
Full year margin estimates in Surface Technologies we expect to be down between 400 and 450 basis points from our 2014 average if rig count fall by 700 to 800 rigs.
In Energy Infrastructure we should see increased revenue in 2015 with margins in the low-double digits on higher activity levels in our loading systems and measurement solutions businesses.
In addition to the restructuring John and I discussed relating to those Subsea and Surface Technologies we are actively renegotiating supplier contracts across all of our businesses to lower input costs.
Regarding corporate items we expect corporate expense to average approximately $15 million per quarter in 2015.
Other expense net should average $15 million per quarter in 2015 subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
We expect our interest expense to average $8 million per quarter.
We anticipate our 2014 tax rate to range between 30% and 32% for the full year.
We expect capital spending in 2015 to be approximately $300 million.
The majority of our 2015 non-maintenance capital spending will be directed toward profit adding Subsea services business investment.
In conclusion our Subsea performance should continue to be strong as we execute our backlog and generate service revenue at a level consistent with 2014.
Operating margins in Subsea Technologies should increase to approximately 15% in 2015 resulting in flat year-over-year operating profit.
Our Subsea Technologies businesses will be challenged in North America but with a strong international presence we think we can deliver revenue between $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion.
We are forecasting our international surface wellhead business to remain at levels consistent with 2014.
The North America business will however experience significant year-over-year declines.
Overall the segment will see operating profits decline at least 30% from 2014 based on our stated range of U.S.
rig count reductions.
Corporate cost should be relatively flat to 2014 and net expenses will be lower as certain costs incurred in 2014 will not repeat.
Overall we expect to deliver solid financial performance from our non-North American land businesses.
We will make the structural changes necessary to minimize short-term margin impact while protecting longer-term growth strategies.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from David Anderson with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning John.
I am not sure if I caught this but did you put out a number for think about what the order book is going to look like for 2015? Did you even I think should I heard the range? No there was not a range.
I specifically said that we did not expect 2015 Subsea inbound orders to be as strong as what we experienced in 2014 so we expect them to be less than what we saw in 2014.
Okay.
Now you talked about kind of the three components within the Subsea Technologies division of orders that -- we have the backlog revenue book in turn and services revenue.
I was wondering if you could just kind of help us understand kind of how you think those three components kind of work out really kind of over the next 18 months.
Does the services revenue I mean is that -- I know we have a partner to the light well intervention which I would thing to hold up.
So is the decline in services kind of more related to the installation on the backlog portion -- on the revenue or backlog and also could you just comment on the 55% on turnover ratios.
Does that -- are you still thinking that 55 it’s sounds like that’s little bit lower than you’re originally thinking? Yeah.
Dave let me talk about service and let Maryann talk about the conversion rates.
Actually our Subsea services inbound in the fourth quarter was the highest for the year.
We actually believe the Subsea service number will hold up quite well.
Where we’re going to see a falloff is in the North Sea and you've heard some of the actions that Statoil has taken.
So we see a -- if there is going to be a falloff in services it will come in the North Sea.
But by and large we think the Subsea services which is a strong margin business for us is actually going to hold up pretty well other than the comments in the North Sea it’s going to hold up pretty well in 2015.
I’ll let Maryann talk about the conversion rate.
Yeah David.
And so as you know we’ve got backlog sitting at about 5.8.
We’re expecting conversion somewhere in and about 50% to 53%.
As we look at the service business year-over-year initially we were expecting some stronger service revenues from 2014.
Our first quarter will be soft and we're seeing that being impacted as your question earlier coming really from light well intervention.
The installation still remains pretty strong.
So about 53% conversion and then Subsea service is about flattish and then the balance is a small book in turn assumption just sort of given what John said somewhat of the uncertainty around 2015.
The next question is from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
John and Maryann can you talk about use of free cash flow and as it relates to the buyback.
The buyback in the fourth quarter was probably the biggest I have seen in several years.
And based on my model with estimates which were quite a bit lower than the Street can you still generate very healthy free cash flow? So can we talk about capital allocation and commitment to the buyback? Should we see more assertive repurchase activity relative to the past few years? Bill this is John.
I’ll make a general comment and then turn over to MaryAnn.
We were pleased with our free cash flow in 2014.
We made good improvements in working capital and obviously we had the earnings.
You know that a lot of the investments we made over the last four years increasing our capacity are starting to wind down.
So it made sense that our free cash flow which we successfully generated in 2014 would be directed at the stock buybacks where we believe the stocks has been undervalued.
So that was the thinking there.
I think you go forward in 2015 MaryAnn commented in her comments that we see CapEx appropriately down.
And we expect with the revenue number and our continued improvement in working capital that we’ll continue to generate strong cash flow going forward.
And as long as the stock price remains where it is and we will continue to be as undervalued I would expect and do expect that our buybacks going forward will probably look more like it is in 2014.
I’ll let MaryAnn comment though more on the free cash flow and use of cash.
Okay.
Yeah.
Good morning Bill.
So clearly as John said we're expecting even with the estimates that we’ve just provided with stronger cash flow and improved cash flow performance in 2015 over 2014 you’re right.
Your memory is correct.
This is the largest buyback that we’ve done since 2007 2008 little bit difference in the price.
We purchased a little over 15.7 million shares in ‘07 and a little over 11.4 million shares in 2008.
So we continue to see this as a very opportunistic way to return cash to shareholders and given the valuation right now we believe strongly in the share repurchase.
We’re sitting on about 8 million shares remaining at the end of the year on our authorization.
Very good.
And then secondly with regard to Brazil all the turmoil that's taking place with Petrobras should we be concerned about the Petrobras backlog at this stage or do you see that kind of converting at a relatively orderly pace going forward? Bill we believe our Petrobras backlog is secure.
Our execution performance on that backlog has been excellent.
Our relationship with Petrobras I think has ever been stronger.
And that's not going to change.
There is clearly uncertainty within the Petrobras organization.
Everybody is well aware of that and how it plays out we will see.
With the backlog secure our relationship remains strong.
Don't envision -- I mean I'm sure there will be some moving around of the backlog a little bit but right now the backlog is secure.
And our relationship with Petrobras remain strong and I don’t envision that change Then next question is from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I wonder whether you could share with us the kind of discussions that you’re having with your key customers at the moment.
They made it very clear that they want to bring their cost down and in the process of that take your pound of flesh out of the oil field services industry.
So to what extent are you negotiating delays of projects in your backlog? To what extent are you -- aiming for price rebates and to what extent are you trying to negotiate with them to change or standardize their work practices so they can take ultimately costs out for better execution? Good morning Ole.
First of all you can appreciate that we are engaged with all our customers particularly our partner relationships.
I don’t think there is a single one who we haven't had exactly the kind of conversations that that you are discussing.
But let me describe the nature of them.
First of all we believe our Subsea backlog is very secure.
There have been no conversations about the delaying deliveries no cancellations nothing of the nature.
The conversations are very direct given the -- remember some of these conversations I talked about in the last quarter have been going on for over a year and that's the declining returns for E&amp;P companies for several years is a huge concern to our customers.
That's now heightened and those conversations are more intense with the change in oil price.
Our customers are telling us that they need to make a step change in the development cost of their deepwater portfolio.
They realize -- with our customers realize there’s lot of pricing pressure they realize they can't get there just by talking about price discounts and so forth.
We need to be talking about something more substantial which means we’ve got to start working in the industry as a whole needs to start working differently.
The conversation centered around standardization.
As you know our company has been particularly successful in driving FMC standards for our partners most notably in the achievement last year of getting four operators to agree on a single spec for next-generation high pressure high temperature equipment.
I think the acceptance of standards by our customer is now greater than it's ever been as a result of their determination to drive down costs.
And we think we are in a terrific position to offer the kinds of low cost efficient standard designs that they are going to need to improve their returns.
The second thing we’re talking about is with the operators is a faster adoption of new technology particularly new technology that makes the step change in the cost of the hardware and the entire production system.
FMC has been proposing for some time our unique technologies that directly lower the cost of their production systems.
And we’re getting a lot -- not only just a lot of interest but I think real commitment to proceed with these new technologies which will make a step change.
And then finally particularly with our partners there's a recognition that something has to change.
This can’t be incremental.
We can't just roll up our sleeves and work harder and shave things around the edge.
We've got to do something substantially different if we’re going to expect a significant change in the development cost.
And there's a real recognition that some of our business models are going to have to change.
We’re going to have to think a little bit differently about the entire scope of the development not just the individual components and how they're integrated and fit together.
We’ve demonstrated to these partners that there are compelling cost reduction for the entire system.
It will change the way we approach the development of these projects.
And I mentioned this in my prepared remarks.
It absolutely is going to require that our company the contractor participate very early in the initial designs and concepts that the operators are using.
Because of the many partnerships we have we’re uniquely positioned to participate early and the operators that we've talked to are now really for the first time encouraging us and encouraging their organizations to let us participate early so we can -- we can really deliver the step change the industry needs.
Thanks for that John.
I would imagine that there is going to some relative winners and losers.
And other than the alliances what it is that makes you confident that this is just not going to be a general cost-reduction across the whole industry but something that you can really as an organization benefit from relative to your peer groups but beyond our alliances which of course give you a tremendous head start? Right.
What gives me confidence is as you pointed out in your earlier comments we're engaged in open discussions unlike anything before and the conversations we are having with our customers is about a recognition that we have to have a step change in cost.
It can’t be incremental.
It can't be 5%.
It can't be a 10% savings.
And I think they recognized that if the kind of traditional or in a down cycle let's squeeze costs you can get there.
And so there's no -- we need to talk about that.
We know there is going to be some pricing pressure.
We know everybody needs to sharpen their pencil but if the conversation isn't more than that they know they won't be able to improve the returns.
And that's what gives me confidence that the operators are likely to adopt at a faster pace some of the alternative approaches that we are proposing.
And as you said our alliances give us the entry to have those conversations with these customers.
The next question is from Douglas Becker with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
John appreciate your expectations for orders to be down in 2015 for Subsea just given the industry backdrop.
Is there still potential for Bonga to be awarded this year and if that’s the case would we see orders up if that played out? Right.
Let me just kind of take it from the top Doug.
A quarter ago I talked about the long list of projects that long list of project projects it still exists.
Projects haven't been completely shelved.
Project teams haven't been asked to stand down.
They are still being worked.
Some of these projects are proceeding and you saw that in our fourth quarter inbound.
There were three projects.
One or two of them -- really we were expecting to happen in 2015 and they got accelerated into 2014.
There are other projects even some in West Africa like Bonga that appear to be proceeding.
But we should expect that virtually all of the projects on this extensive list that we originally thought would be inbound in 2015 are going to be reevaluated.
The pace of that reevaluation it’s unknown.
I mean they are going to be reevaluated.
I think based on the operators’ intent to try to improve their economics I'd like to think that most of them are going to go forward.
But the timing of that reevaluation means that some orders are going to still land in 2015.
But others are going to end up in 2016 as each of the operators go through this valuation process.
So to answer a more specific question yes it's possible that Bonga continues to proceed at the pace we've been watching it and gets awarded in 2015.
But it's also likely other projects that have been proceeding along are going to go through a revaluation process and if that revaluation process takes longer those projects could very well move from ‘15 into ’16.
That's helpful.
If we think a little bit longer-term has anything changed from more of a secular standpoint in terms of the growth that you’d expect for trees more broadly Subsea equipment? Could we see a compound annual growth rate in the high single digits for orders on a secular basis? I think for some time we've been estimating that the future growth rate of conventional Subsea equipment would be in the high single digits.
And again as I said based on the project list based on the inventory of undeveloped deepwater discoveries those growth rates are quite achievable.
It's not going to be a smooth linear line and so we are going to see some volatility in that growth rate and a lots going to depend again on the pace of which these products are reevaluated and they're allowed to proceed and get sanctioned obviously in a different design concept.
But the pace at which they get reevaluated and they get sanctioned will get us back on that growth curve.
But again just looking at inventory of deepwater discoveries that have to be developed that high single-digit growth rate is still achievable in the deepwater sector.
The next question is from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Maryann I wanted to circle back on the conversion out of backlog in Subsea this year and the percentage you outlined on the call.
FMC’s historically been around 60%.
I know ‘14 was expected to be a lower year just given some of the longer lead time orders booked in 2013.
I guess I'm a little surprised as to the percentage being as low as it is in ‘15.
Maybe could you talk a little bit more about that? Is FX having an impact on that to some extent and could you give us an idea should -- I know ’16 is still ways out but the conversion factor should we see that moving back to more of a 60% level in ’16 if you can help us with that it would be appreciated? Sure Bill.
So first of all you're right.
Historically we have seen higher conversion rates.
But keep in mind part of that conversion rate has to do with the size of the backlog and the make-up of the backlog.
But the greatest component of our backlog right now is actually Petrobras and as you know that Petrobras business has a longer tail.
So in part about the conversion for this year we are actually seeing a little bit of slowing coming out of Petrobras what was initially going to be in 2015.
It has asked us now to shift a small portion of that into 2016.
So no overall change in the total but rather a shifting from ‘15 into ’16 point one.
You talked about the FX conversion that $300 million that I talked about really had to do with looking at the average rates in 2014 to 2015.
So that $300 million is really off of our previous estimates.
And then our Subsea service business we are expecting it to be a little bit slower.
We know one of our customers largely in the North Sea has expressed some OpEx slowing and we are seeing some slowing of that as well.
Go on to ‘16 as you say obviously it will depend on the timing and size of 2014.
And if we can get -- depending on the timing of when that order comes in we certainly can see revenues in Subsea in 2016.
Again depending on the timing of that inbound to be flattish with 2015.
If we are fortunate enough to see towards the back half of the year as John talked about all of the reworking of those projects come to fruition then there certainly is an opportunity to see growth in that 2016 Subsea revenue number.
Okay.
Mary can you help us just in terms of the first quarter Subsea margin expectation? I know we typically see some seasonality in the North Sea and shore cycle businesses if you will I guess affecting that margin negatively.
Order of magnitude fourth quarter first quarter any overall expectation of 15% average I’m still assuming you are going to be down in 1Q with some sort of recovery into Q4.
Yeah Bill.
I think sort of what you saw happening in prior year changes.
So Q4 2013 to Q1 of ‘14 will be a similar profile to what we would expect to happen here.
So although we do not have two of the light well intervention stacks like we had last year for recertification we are seeing some slower activity in the first quarter.
So you can assume a similar profile in Q1 of this year like you saw Q1 of last year.
The next question is from Scott Gruber with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
I want to follow-up on the Ole’s question regarding improving the cost structure offshore.
How long do you think it will take for the industry to make those step function changes in project development efficiency? When I think about on the one-hand cycle times are long in the deepwater but on the other hand it’s simply a case of survival for some companies.
So John how do you think about timing with regard to those step function changes? Scott in our conversations with our partners there is a real sense of urgency.
They are anxious to get on with developing their deepwater portfolio.
And so I think you are going to and based on the reaction we’ve seen we’ve seen our partners after proposing some of our ideas whether it’s technology or a different business model essentially almost on the spot make a decision that they are going to rework their project around that different approach.
I know one example on some new technology.
The project was very close to being sanctioned.
All of the design concepts had been largely decided then and the head of the Subsea organization had a chance to review our proposed technology.
And essentially within weeks they made the decision to adopt that new technology.
So that’s just an example but it gives you -- it sort of illustrates the urgency in which the operators realize they have to rework these projects.
So this isn’t about years.
And we saw that even last year even before the decline in oil.
You saw Total's Block 32 Kaombo project.
It wasn’t years that it took them to rework those projects.
It was -- I think in that case just a quarter or two.
So I think given the urgency now and their openness to change I think the operators are prepared.
I hope they are prepared and I think the way they’re signaling to us is they’re prepared to make this step change decisions fairly quickly.
And do you think the overall yield on those efforts and aggregating from a higher level can improve project economics in the 20% 25% range at least similar if not in access of what the shale producers are targeting onshore in the U.S.? I definitely believe that we’re in that range and the operators are looking for numbers of that magnitude.
I think anything significantly less than that we’re talking about incremental change and that’s not going to do it.
And I think that’s what the industry is coming to grips with and it’s what our company understands.
Just rolling up our sleeves working harder we have to look even beyond the -- how we define scope of work because we’ve got to get at the total fuel cost if we’re going to make these significant changes that people are looking for and that are needed in order to improve the returns.
The next question is from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First I want to ask you.
Yesterday Statoil indicated that it had chosen an unmanned wellhead platform concept for its Phase 1 development of the Oseberg project citing cost reduction versus Subsea.
These occur to me as sort of a regression from the earlier days when putting as much production as possible on the seabed we are seeing a as money saver.
Is this a unique instance limited to the North Sea or could this be part of a larger trend? I think it's unique.
I don't think it is part of a larger trend.
Statoil has been quite consistent in their vision for their future and that's everything on the seabed.
That hasn't changed and then our recent comments our conversations with the Statoil that remains intact.
So I would say that's definitely a unique situation and not the vision that Statoil has expressed to us.
Okay.
Good.
That’s helpful.
And further on trying to reduce project costs.
Some of the industries have suggested that potentially large fields should be developed more incrementally to reach production sooner as with managing costs.
Is there any evidence of this sort of thinking in your conversations with your clients? Yes.
We worked on one project with one of our partners and the original project design had significant upfront investment particularly around the infrastructure and preparation for future phases.
And they reworked that project by taking those investments for future phases leaned down to just the requirements for Phase 1.
It made a step change in the investments and improved the returns so they could proceed with that project.
So I think that's definitely one of the different approaches that the industry has to take.
The next question is from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Bryon.
John thinking about your leadership position in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico it certainly sounded like the Subsea service is part of your exposure there should hold up fairly well.
And clearly the long-term JDA will progress.
I’m just curious as to what your customers are thinking in terms of 2015 activity as some of that booked internal work that you tend to get in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and how you feel about the outlook there? Well with regard to services Byron in the Gulf of Mexico we think it’s going to hold up because remember we've got almost $6 billion of Subsea backlog that’s going to get delivered and it has to get installed.
So that's why we're pretty confident.
I mean other than as Maryann mentioned other than that the North Sea situation this equipments going to be delivered and it’s going to be installed.
So that help support solid Gulf of Mexico service revenue related to the backlog of equipment that has to be installed.
But we’re also quite confident based on the conversations we’re having with customers.
And as you know our fourth light well intervention stack is en route as we speak to the Gulf of Mexico.
We've had really good customer acceptance of the idea.
We didn't expect any long-term contracts or pre-commitments just the nature of the Gulf of Mexico.
But we’re quite confident that once the vessel and the stack are available which will happen in the second quarter they will be signing contracts.
That system is very compelling to the operators and based on their reaction to that system entering the Gulf of Mexico.
We’re confident that will contribute to revenue -- service revenue growth in 2015.
And then non-service but our partners and as you’ve suggested that we do have a very strong market position mostly driven by our partners in the Gulf of Mexico with the Gulf of Mexico's large adjusting infrastructure it's common for there to be smaller project awards satellite well step outs.
Now they’ll come under the same scrutiny as a large project with regard to improving returns but probably not as intense.
And we’re hopeful that the smaller projects in the Gulf of Mexico will in fact materialize in 2015.
They tend to be a little bit shorter cycle in terms of the awards.
And therefore -- and probably they will be able to if they even go through a revaluation process it will probably a little bit faster than big multibillion-dollar project.
So you combine all that and we’re pretty confident the Gulf of Mexico in all our regions will probably hold up as well or better than other parts of the world.
Okay.
And then just a second unrelated question as I think about the organizational changes that you put through in the U.S.
surface business well surface wellhead business about a year ago? I'm assuming that that the reductions to headcount is just reacting to the activity as opposed to necessarily changing the strategy in terms of how you approach the U.S surface wellhead business going forward coming out of the downturn? Absolutely.
We and I think both Maryann and I covered that in our comments Byron.
We’re going to take early and significant action but we’re not going to jeopardize the strategy we’ve put in place and one important strategy for us is our approach to the North America land market.
The reorganization that we did a year ago was pivotal for that change.
The new technologies that we’re introducing the acquisition of Flowback Services year and a half ago these are all part of our strategy to strengthen our position to differentiate ourselves in the North America land business and that doesn't change.
I mean there will be a recovery and during that recovery we want to emerge stronger and we've taken steps to implement our strategy to do just that.
So these headcount reductions really are independent out there responding to the downturn in the market.
The next question is from Rob MacKenzie with Iberia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I guess question for you John.
Coming back to the pricing question a little bit? Can you give us a feeling for how much you expect just give up in terms of pricing concessions and how much of that maybe offset by concessions you get from your vendors as well as commentary as to how we should see that play out in terms of timing? Well so far we haven't seen much but there have been many awards that have been made.
But just like the last downturn we expect some pricing pressure and greater competitiveness as we stare at some softness in the market.
Let start though let start with our backlog.
I said in my prepared remarks that not only do we have strong inbound orders in the book-to-bill of 1.2 in the quarter.
We also increased our margin and backlog.
So for FMC we haven't seen a decline in margins.
Clearly our customers are asking for concessions and discounts but they understand that there is limit to that and we’re having conversations with them.
But I don't expect significant concessions particularly on the orders that we’ve received.
Going forward the competitive environment is going to be a little tougher and we’ll see the impact of the slower market in the pricing of bids that are tendered.
Having said that just like last time we will see the supply chain cost come down and we'll see that partially offset some of the pricing pressure.
And hopefully we’ll be able to hold onto our strong margins that have been represented in our backlog for the last year and half.
Great.
Thanks.
My follow-up is I guess on 50 years to the Surface business if I may a little bit focusing on fluid control.
I don’t know we’ve talked a lot about that this quarter or this call.
One of your bigger customers Baker Hughes is going to be acquired by Halliburton who I believe does a lot of their own fluid control internally.
How do you thinking about A how that’s affects your business going forward after the downturn and B that’s been North American levered.
Do you expect to see additional drivers they’re helping to drive that segment in the next up cycle? I’ll start with the Baker Hughes and Halliburton.
Both companies are important to FMC.
I’m sure Halliburton makes their own well service pump.
But most of the treating iron the Weco/Chiksan product line is bought from FMC and has been for decade.
So Halliburton remains an important customer of FMC.
BJ Services before they were required by the Baker Hughes was an important customer to FMC as well.
Again we are selling them treating iron swivel joints Weco/Chiksan product line.
But we also had made roads with Baker Hughes in terms of our well service pump.
Remember the well service pump is a small part.
We were relatively new to the industry in the well service pump.
So it’s not a big portion of our business.
That’s going to be Halliburton decision how they inaugurate Baker Hughes into Halliburton and what they do in terms of rationalizing the equipment that they use.
But on the primary product of fluid control the flow line we sell to both the company.
So I think the way we look at it is there maybe some downside just in the consolidation of the two companies but there could very well be upside.
Going forward when we get to our recovery our fluid control business recognized the importance of improving efficiency and developing shale the developing product and services to do just that.
And I think fluid control will continue to contribute to the successful development of shale and improving the cost contingencies as they contribute to the industry.
So I think they will be part of the changes that has to take place in shale to improve efficiency.
The next question is from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Kurt.
Hello.
I had a great color.
And I want to kind of get your perspective -- collective perspective and do comparison in contrast on how you mentioned some element about margin and pricing and potential dynamics in 2015 as you booked these orders cost reduction by the customer base all that stuff.
You compare what you expect to see maybe in ‘15 and ‘16 to what transpired in 2009 and 2010 because I know as we all look back and do this comparison that the margin pressure and the pricing pressure are very severe in that period.
So can you help us what’s your view of what’s going to happen vis-à-vis what happened in 2008 2009? Right.
I think it make a lot of sense to look back to last downturn and it serves as an example of what we can expect.
So I would say Kurt particularly on those projects that are tendered this one would be outside of our partnerships.
We are going to see competitive pressure that will drive the pricing down.
I think it looks a lot like what we experienced in the 2009 and 2010.
I think some of the differences to comparing contrast I think we have more partnerships today more alliances more frame agreement today than we did in 2008 and 2009.
And it’s in the context of those partnerships not that there weren’t pricing concession in those partnerships but the nature is very different.
Because those projects are tendered so we get to negotiate any changes in the pricing structure.
And that has a real effect on margins a positive one I would say in the context of negotiating with the partner.
So we have more partnerships going into this.
I would say our relationships with our key customers is also stronger because of our execution performance.
And that’s helpful when you’re going into a downturn and negotiating prices.
And then finally our own performance.
You remember I think you remember in 2010 and 2011 we were struggling with growth.
And that had an impact on our ability to execute had an impact on our cost.
Remember we had a lot of people a brand-new people that weren’t as efficient.
We go into this downturn very differently than we did in 2009 and 2010.
Our execution performance has never been better.
Our relationship with our customers has never been better.
And the maturity of the investments that we made in those 2009-2010 is very different.
Those new employees that we brought on in 2010 and 2011 now have three and four years of experience behind them.
Their efficiency levels are much higher than they were when we went through that last downturn.
The investments we made in processes and capacity those are all behind us now.
We are operating successfully performing well at an activity level that’s almost double of what we were four years ago.
And that’s going to matter in terms of our net earnings because our execution is going to be better.
Our cost base is going to be -- structure is going to be better.
So we go although 2008 and 2009 what we learned from that downturn I think it will be an example what we are going to experience this time.
We go into this downturn very differently.
Got it.
That’s a great color.
John thanks.
Now one other follow-up if I may on the surface run.
Could you just give us refresher on what percent of the business in 2014 was international surface versus North America? Yeah.
So our international surface business could have been rough numbers here for 2014 it’s about 45% of the total of Surface Technologies the balance being largely North America.
Our last question will come from Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Maryann.
Thank you again for the detail.
Just one clarification start out with.
You mentioned the sequential Subsea margins in Q1 are going to have a profile similar to Q1 of last year.
I presume you’re meaning the degradation in margins of roughly 200 basis points is going to be similar or not that the margins will be similar to Q1.
Did I follow that correctly? You followed that correctly yes.
I was talking about the degradation from sequentially.
You're absolutely correct.
Right.
Well that’s sort of I want to make sure.
Last question for the call.
You guys have had a heck of an improvement over the last two years improving efficiencies and improving throughput et cetera et cetera.
With this downturn help me understand what happens to those efficiencies do they continue to get better or do we get somewhat less efficient as you’re laying off people and things like that? Marshall this is John.
No we absolutely believe that the efficiency improvements that we made particularly in Subsea over the last 3 to 4 years not only are they sustainable but were going to be able to continue to build on them.
In my prepared remarks I talked about this downturn is an opportunity for us to really improve our cost base streamline the organization.
And we’re going to take full advantage of this opportunity.
So our expectation is the improvements what we made not only are they sustainable but we build on them going through this downturn.
I will now turn the call over to Brad Alexander for their closing remarks.
This concludes our fourth quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 PM Eastern today.
We will conduct our first quarter 2015 conference call on April 22 at 9:00 AM Eastern time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Ellen you may now conclude the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Mr.
Brad Alexander.
You may begin sir.
Thank you Brandon.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman President and CEO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning.
Welcome to our first quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today is Maryann Seaman our Chief Financial Officer.
I'll discuss highlights from the quarter Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Earnings were $0.63 per diluted share for the quarter.
Total company quarterly revenue was $1.7 billion and operating profit was $235 million.
Quarterly revenue for Subsea Technologies was $1.2 billion.
This is in line with the prior year quarter and as a result of continuing to execute our strong backlog and healthy service activity.
Subsea margins increased both sequentially and year-over-year.
Our focus on execution has enabled us to generate strong margins in a seasonally weak quarter.
For the full year we expect to show a year-over-year margin increase as the execution momentum generated in 2014 has been maintained in the first quarter and is expected to continue.
Although our full-year subsea revenue will remain close to last year's record level our ability to execute has improved.
Our focus on standardization process improvement cost reduction supply chain and rationalizing our workforce all contributed to these efficiency gains.
As we continue to lean out the organization we expect to further improve our cost structure throughout the remainder of the year.
Our quarterly Subsea Technologies inbound totaled $552 million.
As we anticipated our subsea service activity remained strong.
We did not announce any major awards in the first quarter and smaller project awards were also low.
This level of quarterly project inbound was not unexpected as the subsea market is going through a period of project reevaluation.
In this environment with operators reassessing their project portfolios award dates are moving to the right.
There's some projects however that we still believe have a very good chance of being awarded this year.
We expect to inbound at least $3 billion of subsea awards in 2015.
This is based on our confidence in subsea service activity as evidenced in the first quarter and our expectation of awards supported by customer discussions that we expect to occur in the back half of the year.
In our Surface Technologies segment we're now experiencing significant declines in North American activity that exceeded the scenarios we discussed in February.
Our fluid control inbound orders have fallen significantly this year.
As this business does not carry a large backlog the impact on revenue occurs quickly.
In response we have more aggressively implemented work force reductions and continue to work with our suppliers to reduce cost and minimize the effect on our decremental margins.
Overall we're not planning for this market to recover before 2016.
Our surface wellhead business outside of North America continued to deliver strong performance in the first quarter.
Activity was down sequentially but increased year-over-year.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver annual results at or near last year's record based on the strong market position we've built particularly with the national oil companies in the Middle East.
Now returning to the subsea market.
Subsea project returns must improve to ensure the market's long-term success and growth.
Our strategy specifically targets shortening the time to first oil reducing subsea development cost and increasing overall production.
As earlier announced our alliance with Technip and the creation of Forsys Subsea our joint venture that delivers vendor-based concept and FEED studies provides a platform to improve returns.
This alliance allows us to take the market-leading subsea production systems and surf capabilities of each company and combine them in a way that was previously unavailable ultimately offering cost savings that are both substantial and sustainable.
With early involvement at the FEED stage we can further drive product standardization and introduce vendor-based technology that cannot be placed within a traditional tender.
In addition we can also eliminate costly interfaces required when the two critical components of a deepwater development are managed separate and independently.
We believe these changes reduce the overall costs associated with the combined subsea production systems and search scope by approximately 25% to 30%.
We're confident these savings are achievable as we've not only tested this on previously executed projects but also on projects currently under evaluation.
Reaction from customers has been positive as both Technip and FMC are discussing projects previously thought to be uneconomic as likely candidates for studies using Forsys Subsea capabilities.
We expect that the first Forsys Subsea commercial study will occur this year in 2015 and as a result EPIC award could happen as early as next year.
Another example of the industry challenging task business models is the unprecedented agreement by four operators to fund the development of standardized high-pressure high-temperature equipment for deployment in the Gulf of Mexico.
Even more encouraging is the level of interest we're receiving from other operators with fields requiring this new technology.
More companies in the industry are recognizing the cost savings that are achievable through this unique collaborative effort to solve an industry challenge and will likely join this alliance.
Looking forward in the near term we will continue to focus on execution while at the same time driving down cost and adjusting capacity to match lower activity levels.
As a result we expect to deliver solid margins as well as create a more efficient cost structure.
Deepwater reserves remain a significant current and future source of the hydrocarbons that will be required to meet both increasing demand and offset production declines.
The subsea industry however recognizes it must reduce overall cost to improve returns and enable operators to proceed with the development of their significant portfolio of deepwater discoveries.
Responding to this challenge we are now positioned to be involved early in project design enabling the integration of critical development scope while further advancing technology and standardization to drive down costs.
Maryann will now take you through some of the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks John.
Our Subsea Technology segment delivered strong results in the quarter offset by both a steep market-driven decline in our North American Surface Technologies businesses and weaker results from our Energy Infrastructure segment.
Subsea Technologies' operating profit was $169 million in the quarter with a margin of 14.6%.
Operating margins improved 280 basis points quarter-over-quarter with operating profit increasing 19%.
Operating margins both sequentially and quarter-over-quarter showed continued improvement in execution while converting a strong project backlog.
Subsea service activities met expectations despite lower activities in the North Sea.
In Subsea we began to reduce head count in the first quarter where activity levels showed weakness.
Over the next several quarters we expect to further reduce the organization where standardization drives efficiency and regional activity levels require more efficient operation.
Moving to our Surface Technology results Surface Technology operating profit for the first quarter was $63 million a 28% decrease from the prior-year quarter.
Margins in the quarter were 14.1%.
We incurred charges in the quarter related to head-count reductions and operational changes which reduced the quarterly result.
Absent that our expectations for cost management and operating margins were essentially in line.
Our surface wellhead business outside of North America continued to perform well as sales increased 13% quarter-over-quarter with margins improving on continued strong execution largely related to activity in the Middle East.
The U.S.
rig count has fallen by almost 1 000 rigs since the peak last fall.
This has decreased our daily orders from pressure pumping activity significantly as customer demand has weakened.
As a result our fluid control sales fell faster than initially expected.
We are also seeing significant sequential declines in our North American surface wellhead and completion services business.
We are in the process of consolidating facilities within our Surface Technologies portfolio in North America.
Independent of the current market conditions we are focused on improving our position in shale.
We are reducing our cost structure integrated-related services on the pad and introducing new technology.
These efforts are all focused on reducing development cost and the overall footprint while decreasing the time to first oil.
This will help us protect our decremental margins in the near term while improving our competitive position as we further integrate our offerings.
We have reduced our North American Surface Technologies head count in line with volume declines.
We will have further reductions in the second quarter as we complete the operational efficiencies to achieve our North America integrated strategy.
Segment backlog exiting this quarter stands at $520 million.
This is predominantly related to our wellhead business outside of North America which continues to show strength.
Energy infrastructure operating income for the first quarter was $3 million with margins of 2.9% which included restructuring costs.
These results while disappointing were in large part due to delayed orders in the loading systems and measurement systems businesses still expected this year.
However execution improvements are required in the coming quarters to improve operational performance.
Overall in our segment operating results we recorded $10 million of restructuring costs in the first quarter.
We expect to record another $4 million to $5 million in the second quarter for further reductions across our businesses.
Let's turn to the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $16.3 million.
We expect spending of approximately $15 million per quarter throughout 2015.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $26.5 million.
Our first quarter equity compensation cost is higher than the remaining three quarters due to the amortization period for certain awards and we also experienced higher foreign exchange losses.
For the remaining quarters of 2015 we expect this to be approximately $13 million per quarter subject to further foreign currency fluctuations.
Our first quarter tax rate was 20% which reflects the lower percentage of overall earnings subject to U.S.
tax.
We now anticipate our 2015 tax rate to be between 25% and 27% for the full year.
Capital spending this quarter was $87 million primarily directed toward Subsea Technologies.
We expect capital spending in 2015 to be approximately $250 million as expenditures will be lower through the remainder of the year.
At the end of the quarter we had net debt of $621 million.
It is comprised of $695 million of cash and $1.3 billion of debt.
We averaged 234 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
We repurchased 776 000 shares of stock during the first quarter at an average cost of $39.75 per share.
Looking forward we expect to deliver full-year subsea revenue that approaches $5 billion with margins of around 15% as we continue to execute well and manage operational cost.
Our subsea services revenue should continue to remain healthy despite slowing North Sea activity.
We continue to expect revenue similar to prior-year levels.
Surface Technologies revenue is likely to be down approximately 25% from last year given reduced North American market activity with operating margins of approximately 12% to 13% for the full year excluding the cost of restructuring.
Energy infrastructure revenue will be down approximately 20% year-over-year with margins of around 10% reflecting improved execution.
Orders delayed from the quarter are still expected this year.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
From Evercore ISI we have James West on the line.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning James.
John a question on – we talked a lot about subsea kind of standardization or conformity on the last few calls.
And I know you're having many more conversations at the sea level with your customer base.
However back in 2009 we did have a lot of these standardization talks as well.
Could you maybe just elaborate on how it's different this time? How much more the market is embracing this idea of standardization of equipment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks James for the question.
You're right.
The industry has been talking about standardization for decades.
But there's been for a variety of reasons resistance to actually adopt standards.
Some operators have been more successful than others.
And I think it's – where they have been able to standardize they've been able to demonstrate better project execution and lower oil development cost.
In today's environment and I don't mean today's oil environment I mean the rising cost of deepwater development with flat oil prices has for the last three to four years created an environment where operators' returns have declined.
And that's the fundamental issue for the industry is to reverse that.
And all the conversations that we're having with major deepwater operators center around how they can improve their returns.
And they all understand the importance of standardization.
Not only does it improve execution it lowers cost and lowers lead time.
What's different this time is the determination by the operators to improve their returns and recognition of standardization is one of the best ways to do it.
We see evidence of this in the high-pressure high-temperature 20 000 psi equipment that we are developing for four operators.
That is unprecedented in our industry that four operators would agree on a single standard a single part number.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And the impetus behind that is their conviction now unlike in the past to adopt industry standards.
The conversations that we are having after our announcement of our alliance with Technip are similar in nature where the operators are very interested in how we can introduce standards early in the design and concept process.
So I think there's a real movement if you will to adopt standards in a way that has eluded the industry for several decades.
And we're now getting evidence of that.
Again high-pressure high-temperature equipment is probably one of the best examples of four operators.
And I think there's – and there will be more to come that will adopt that standard.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks John.
And a follow-up for me.
The alliance with Technip I believe you mentioned and I'll probably get these numbers wrong.
I apologize.
But the projects could lower costs by 25% to 30%.
How much of this is coming from say the subsea construction part? How much is coming from the equipment maybe standardization or using a little bit less equipment on the seabed? Could you maybe break that cost savings down a little bit more? And how much I guess is from just the lowering of the timeline of the deepwater project? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The savings come from a variety of areas.
But if you just look at the scope of the SPS and the SURF scope it's about equally split.
So just looking at the scope you'd expect both scope would find opportunities for reduction and it would come equally split from both pieces of the SPS scope and the SURF scope.
So I think if you had to guess it's probably just 50/50.
But there are very specific ways that this alliance drives down cost.
First as I mentioned the opportunity to introduce standards.
When we're involved through the concept design stage through the FEED capabilities of FMC and Technip through the JV Forsys we'll be able to influence the standards that are established.
We'll be able to – both Technip Technology and FMC Technology would be able to be introduced at the concept stage which can significantly drive down cost.
The other opportunity for reducing cost is the interface between these two critical scopes of subsea production systems and SURF.
And this is in both our testing of this concept and these capabilities with past projects and projects we're currently evaluating for our partners we've found significant opportunities again in that 25% to 30% reduction range by actually eliminating hardware at the interface between SPS and SURF installation.
We've also found opportunities to more efficiently install the subsea equipment including the production flow lines because we're managing the interface between SPS and SURF in a combined manner.
So right off the top of my head more standardization faster introduction to new technology eliminating hardware at the interface between these two critical scopes and the opportunity for more efficient installation because the two pieces are being integrated.
From Morgan Stanley we have Ole Slorer on the line.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I wonder whether you could elaborate a little bit on these very strong margins that you posted in subsea in the first quarter.
You took quite some initiatives on cost savings and efficiency gains last year.
I just wanted to know how much stems from that and how much stems from a different business mix here in the first quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ole I'll start and then I'll let Maryann get into some of the details.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks execution played a very important role.
You've seen over the last 18 months where we have been consistently improving execution and it continues to improve.
So I'd say execution was a big driver behind the strong margins.
We are also even though our activity level in subsea is staying up because of our high backlog we've started to take a number of actions to reduce our cost structure and some of that is starting to appear in margins.
I think there'll be a lot more to come in future quarters.
Let me ask Maryann to give a little bit more color on the margin performance.
Yeah.
Just in terms of the mix Ole we saw a pretty similar mix in the quarter subsea services versus our EPC that we have in previous quarters.
You may remember this time last year we did have two stacks down and we incurred the cost associated with the recertification.
Obviously that didn't happen.
But as John mentioned a lot of this is really coming from the solid execution the good work that's been done at these higher volumes and again the early work on head count this time.
So we feel pretty confident about our full-year margins in a range of 15%.
You may think about the change from Q1 to Q2 perhaps not being as severe as it has in the past quarters because our first quarter is typically our weakest.
But again mix pretty similar as it has been in prior quarters.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
I was just trying to figure out whether there was a big boost in subsea service activity or also something else that really changed the mix.
But the follow-up question would be on the order intake $550 million in the first quarter versus $3 billion minimum for the full year.
I wonder whether you could talk a little bit about this step-up in activity which is of course second half loaded.
Is it contingent upon any particular projects? Is there any region that is important for example new orders in Brazil? Just a little bit of color on the composition of the ramp in order intake.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ole our subsea service inbound held up nicely as we expected.
On a run rate it looks for the first quarter full-year run rate if we maintain that level and we absolutely expect that we will it will mirror what we saw in 2014.
So somewhere in the $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion of subsea services makes up half of the $3 billion.
Where does the rest come from? Some will come from smaller or less than $100 million orders.
The first quarter inbound rate for those smaller orders was about half what we saw in the fourth quarter.
We think that's the result of a bit of a stall or pause by the operators when they revised their budgets.
There was a lot of distraction that first quarter.
They weren't ready to proceed with some of the smaller projects that were on their list because they needed to get their budgets sorted out.
Although we did book several hundred million dollars of small awards in the first quarter it was down from what we saw on the fourth quarter.
And we expect that to get back up to more normal levels in future quarters.
And then as we said in the last call this focus on returns the downturn initiatives that capital pullback by the operators has caused them to evaluate and reassess their planned deepwater projects.
And so we fully expect that these projects would move to the right and start to be awarded in the second half of the year.
We have been targeting several projects that we are highly confident will be awarded this year.
And it's a combination of those larger projects that we have confidence in an increase in the smaller projects that we didn't see in the first quarter and then the run rate for service which we did see in the first quarter continuing that gives us confidence that we'll at least do $3 billion for the year.
In terms of projects and regions again all the projects are moving to the right as they're being re-evaluated.
Some of them will fall in 2015.
Some will move into 2016.
It's a little hard to predict right now whether they'll land this year or move into next year.
In terms of regions we're not looking for much in Brazil.
As you know Petrobras placed their big multiyear contracts several years ago so we don't expect a lot of inbound necessarily in Brazil.
We expect the Gulf of Mexico to continue to be strong.
The big projects in West Africa we just need to watch the timing because they will have a tendency to move to the right.
So I'd say Brazil a little softer.
Gulf of Mexico should stay strong.
West Africa will depend on the timing of these big projects as they get awarded.
From Barclays we have David Anderson on line.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> John a question on kind of the margins in subsea maybe over the next 18 to 24 months not necessarily this year.
Particularly wondering about the backlog.
As the orders come through and the pricing comes through could you first comment on kind of how that pricing is looking on that backlog? And then as we think about 2016 with lower orders coming in how do we think about this? There's a couple big projects I know you have in that backlog as they roll out in 2016.
If you could just give us some color on how you're expecting that mix to play out.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well just – I don't know how – necessarily how material this is but in the first quarter we reported another increase in margins in backlog.
Now fair enough the inbound that we booked in the first quarter was relatively light but that's 12 quarters in a row of increasing margins in backlog.
And that's – that makes us feel good.
It makes us feel like the big backlog we've got we're not showing margin deterioration.
Now we know going forward as you pointed out in the next 18 or so months with the shift of major projects being awarded later in the year of 2015 being a softer year for subsea inbound that there'll probably be more pricing pressure just in terms of the competitive environment.
So I'd see there clearly is the potential for some softening of margins particularly at maybe major projects that would be awarded.
Now remember at the same time we are significantly reducing our costs so the balance in the supply chain costs are also coming down.
So how that actually plays out in terms of net margins to us isn't clear yet.
But we should expect that there's clearly a chance and an opportunity that margins will become a little bit softer as we go through this slower period over the course of the next 9 to 12 months.
Now we get back into 2016 and the subsea awards start to be inbound at a more normal rate hopefully the margins would start to stabilize.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Another question just getting back to your agreement with Technip.
And I certainly understand the concept of standardization you've been talking about but I think you – if I'm not mistaken on the call that you had regarding this that combined that represents around 30% of the overall development cost.
Can you just comment a little bit on the rest of that the 70% that you see out there in terms of what you think are kind of the big stumbling blocks? Obviously we're trying to figure out how economics improve.
And you've been pretty clear about how that works in your business.
I was just wondering how you're looking at the rest of the business.
Where do you think the stumbling blocks are in terms of some of these projects going ahead? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well just – obviously every project is different.
But the ones that we look out the 30% is as you pointed out is the combination between the SURF and SPS scope.
It's split evenly.
The other big number and it's a big number in the sense that it's 50% of the overall development cost is in drilling.
After that it's less than 10% pieces top side and so forth.
So actually the combined SURF/SPS is the second largest component of a deepwater development.
Now what are the stumbling blocks? I mean the stumbling blocks in my view is really the industry willing to accept and adapt very different business models.
It just doesn't make sense to me.
It's illogical to think that we're going to get 30% plus savings over a complete deepwater development without doing something fundamentally different.
And that's what is I think so attractive to the operators of the Forsys capabilities.
They understand that we can't just keep doing things the same way we've always done them and then expect some huge material savings at least in a sustainable way.
And so the reaction that we've got since the announcements of Forsys has been well extraordinary.
Virtually every one of our partners and some of our non-partners have asked to know a lot more about Forsys' capabilities including identifying specific projects that they would like to apply the Forsys capabilities to to either improve their returns or make a project that was previously thought economic now economic so they can proceed with the development.
But they also recognize and I believe this time they're prepared – the operators are prepared in conjunction with Technip and FMC to try a different business model so we can exploit those potential savings.
I think that's the biggest stumbling block is that sort of mind shift if you will or mindset to a different business model.
From Bank of America we have Douglas Becker on line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
John it doesn't sound like there's been any decline in subsea pricing yet but you acknowledge the potential for some weakness.
Maybe just for perspective how much did pricing decline during the last down cycle? And is there any precedent for customers coming back and asking for re-pricing of existing backlog? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll take the last part of your question.
Historically there hasn't been re-pricing of the existing backlog.
Largely it stays intact.
There's been conversations about maybe how we can reduce cost that certainly particularly in maybe some of our service rates and that sort of thing.
But in almost every case the conversation is around how can we change the scope how can we do something different to reduce the cost as opposed to straight pricing.
So when it comes to the existing backlog and again I'd point more to service work the conversations have been around changing scope doing things differently to reduce their cost not necessarily pricing.
With regard to what happened in the past every downturn is different.
I think it varies by projects.
On our partner contracts we tend to negotiate our contracts which look very different than a tendered project.
So Doug I would just hesitate to put a number on what the pricing reduction is in a down cycle.
It really varies.
I don't think – we saw softness in the last downturn but we were also able to offset some of that softness through cost reduction.
I think we have a unique position because of our alliances.
And our projects tend to be negotiated.
So we don't have maybe as significant swings in pricing as you do when you have a major project that is tendered by four different suppliers and the opportunity for one to maybe be more – significantly more aggressive.
So I'd say our pricing declines tend to be a little bit more stable and moderated in a downturn than maybe the industry as a whole.
Sure.
No that makes sense.
And circling back on subsea orders it sounds like services were $400 million or so.
So really implies the onesies twosies were at least relative to history very weak.
As you think about that trajectory going forward how much of that's dependent on customers with frame agreements where you might have a little more visibility or customers that you don't have agreements set in stone? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> When I said at least $3 billion I say it with so much confidence because it's driven by our partners.
So that's just been FMC's history.
Over 50% of our inbound typically has come from our partners.
We added two more partners last year; well 2.5 really.
We expanded one partnership.
We keep adding the partners to our portfolio of companies that are committed to working with us.
Those partnerships strengthen.
So I think that's why when it comes to FMC's inbound projections we've been able – I think the numbers I've thrown out we've almost always hit over the course of the last four or five years.
And that's because it's built on mostly on these partnerships where we have a lot more confidence obviously that we'll win the award and we have a lot more visibility of the status of the project whether or not it's going to go forward.
And I think that's what supports my confidence in $3 billion.
Beyond the $3 billion it's going to depend on our alliance partners whether or not they go ahead with projects and they make it into this year.
And then also projects that are not with our partners where there's more uncertainty.
From Howard Weil we have Bill Sanchez on line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Bill.
John I was hoping perhaps you could update us on the backlog in Brazil just in general.
I know at year-end that number was just over 20% of your total backlog.
And I think on the 4Q call you all had mentioned that Petrobras had asked for about $100 million in shipments to be pushed to next year.
Any updates there you could offer will be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> With regard to the Petrobras backlog which I think you know we won those orders the trees plus the manifolds; that was over a four-plus period.
We're about halfway through that now.
There has been no change in terms of pricing cancellation of that backlog with the exception of that $100 million of trees that was moved to the right.
And I – although we don't like things necessarily moving to the right that wasn't quite so bad for us because it gave us a chance to smooth out production and avoid some capacity additions that we may have had to make.
So it wasn't necessarily a bad thing for us.
So no change to the backlog other than that $100 million shifting to the right.
We have the ability now with that backlog for 2015 and 2016 in terms of revenue to be fairly stable.
And actually some of the backlog rolls into 2017 for Brazil.
So we've got this year and next year in pretty good shape in terms of our available capacity.
And then 2017 part of the year is already covered by our existing backlog.
Again no change other than that – other than those trees that are moving to the – moved to the right.
Is there an opportunity for some initial awards to be made on the pre-salt award on Libra perhaps before year-end? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There's just so much uncertainty with Petrobras right now.
We know that they are focused on pre-salt.
We know that they are focused on Libra.
But given the general uncertainty with Petrobras right now to make a call that Libra's going to make it into this year might be – well that just might be kind of over-forecasting there.
I don't know.
I know that they're focused on pre-salt I know they're focused on Libra.
There will be onsie twosies out of Brazil.
Actually one of the smaller awards that we inbounded in the first quarter was from Petrobras.
So there'll be small ones.
But the big projects like Libra that you're referencing I'd say there's still some uncertainty whether or not that makes it in 2015.
From IBERIA Capital we have Rob MacKenzie on line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
John I wanted to come back to a topic you've already talked about a little bit with a slightly different spin I guess.
And that is how many of the big project awards that are out there that you guys listed in your presentation and others are really contingent on either operators adopting a different business model to make the returns work versus how many of them do you think can be made to work and be committed to with just business the way it has been with some cost reductions and maybe a slight oil-price recovery? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In today's environment I believe virtually all projects are being challenged in terms of what can be done different to improve the returns.
So I don't – if you look at every project on the list and some are way more advanced but by and large almost all of them are being questioned and reevaluated if for no other reason just in light in terms of the industry downturn.
But others are being evaluated in terms of opportunities to do things like the capabilities that come from the Forsys concept.
There are some projects however a couple anyway on our list for 2015 – I'll sort of leave at a couple that right now are probably uneconomic and would not successfully go through the FID process unless they are reworked.
So those would not go forward unless they were successfully reworked.
The rest are being reevaluated but they're still economic.
And I think the operators are looking for an opportunity to improve returns either because of the market environment or some of these new approaches that are now – at least our company is presenting to them.
Great.
And I guess my follow-on would be as a result of the Forsys joint venture can you share anything with us about what might be your biggest opportunity to perhaps pick up some market share that I think you hinted at earlier? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well every single one of our partners has since the announcement called us in to review the Forsys capabilities and how it could apply to their portfolio.
Several of those partners have actually identified candidates to proceed with applying the capabilities.
We have also had conversations with non-partners who are interested in the concept and they too have identified candidates at which we would apply the Forsys capabilities.
So I think Forsys gives us the opportunity to strengthen the partnerships that we currently have and to potentially add new partners or expand our market position.
I might mention though this isn't related to Forsys but it is related to the idea of how our company can offer opportunities to improve returns.
And that's back to the high-pressure high-temperature equipment that we're building for the Gulf of Mexico.
The four companies that are part of that consortium were also FMC partners.
But we now have non-partners that are asking or considering I should say and they're actually well into the evaluation of whether or not they can participate in that consortium.
Well clearly that will be an opportunity for FMC to pick up market share with non-partners if in fact some of those companies join the consortium.
From Guggenheim we have Michael Lamotte on the line.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I just want to follow up on the CapEx number make sure I heard that correctly.
$250 million for the year Maryann? That's correct Michael.
About $250 million for the year.
And how much of that is considered maintenance sort of your ongoing run rate? Yeah.
So in general our maintenance CapEx runs 40% to 45% in the last couple years.
As you know we've been expanding both in capacity for our general EPC business.
And then more recently our spending has been focused on growth in the subsea services business.
So a lesser percentage obviously – excuse me a greater percentage of it now obviously is maintenance as the number gets smaller.
This year we've got a couple of projects in services.
We're continuing to build out the fifth Light Well Intervention stack to go with our JV.
And there's also some drilling and installation tools necessary for the completion of the services business as well.
But typically it's about 40% to 45%.
Okay.
And then on the cycle time for the stacks that's a pretty long lead item.
Is there a risk that in 2016 services revenues essentially stall as a consequence of not having new equipment to drive services revenue next year? So for 2016 our services business you know what? We're a little early days.
But we think obviously we'll still have a strong installation piece as the trees still need to be installed from this growth that we've seen over the last couple years.
Our fourth stack will go into service in the second quarter of this year.
And while there are a little bit of headwinds given this industry we are still confident that we'll continue to see opportunities for contracts for that stack this year.
And then also some of the other capabilities once we have our vessel operating in the Gulf of Mexico should also add to that.
So we're hopeful that we'll be able to see a subsea services revenue in 2016 that looks like 2015 and potentially growing.
But that will be a struggle to grow for growth in 2016.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Michael this is John.
I want to maybe add to what Maryann said.
We're – the fourth stack arrived in the Gulf of Mexico in the first quarter pretty much on plan.
We've spent the last couple months doing commissioning.
It'll be ready for service later this quarter and we've now received our first contract for the Island Performer.
So we'll be performing our first work for that vessel in May and that's really encouraging.
We've got opportunities with projects or contracts after that.
So we're encouraged that the fourth stack that we built is going to be put into service pretty much as we planned earlier this year.
Now that won't – I mean these numbers are relatively small but in terms of our ability to expand our service offering in the subsea market and the operators responding to that we are encouraged.
Okay.
John if I could ask a follow-up with you just thinking through structural changes in the market organic growth has really been the engine for FMC from the beginning.
I'm wondering with excess capacity in the market and perhaps efforts to reduce costs through a broader product offering if M&amp;A doesn't come up on the radar screen as a way to enhance growth in the next few years.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well when you – our organic growth is not done yet.
I just mentioned the fourth stack on services.
We have plenty of potential to grow our service revenue.
We haven't talked much about processing.
That's an important growth platform for our company.
We're expecting two processing projects to be awarded still this year.
And although we'll go through somewhat of a lull in subsea project awards primarily because projects are being reevaluated and shifting to the right.
That recovers in 2016 and we get to a more normal rate of subsea orders.
That provides significant growth to meet our expectations and our company is focused on that.
With regard to M&amp;A opportunities as you know most of our M&amp;A has been focused on adding the capabilities that we need to grow the company organically.
And by and large that's still our plan.
But in today's environment there will be opportunities for us to look at opportunities to maybe more quickly acquire the capabilities we need to add to our current suite of products and services and continue to grow the company.
From Tudor Pickering Holt we have Byron Pope on the line.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
John as it relates to your shale offering as we think about the eventual recovery in North America whether it's later this year or early next year could you just give one or two examples of how your integrated offering should help differentiate FTI in the North America surface business going forward versus some of your smaller competitors that compete in discrete elements of the chain? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Byron you know that there's been a lot of efficiency improvements in shale development.
A lot of them have concentrated on the drilling side on the geology side on the down-hole side; a lot of improvements on the on the fracking side.
We believe there have been less efficiency step changes once the final frac is done and then you're selling your first barrel of oil.
And I think that is a really ripe opportunity for the industry to demonstrate the same kind of efficiency improvements that the more upstream part of the process has already been able to achieve.
FMC is uniquely positioned to drive those efficiencies because not only are we providing the wellhead equipment we're providing the frac rental equipment we're providing the completion equipment and we're providing the flow-back services.
I don't think any other company has that combination of services.
Today the operators are contracting each of those services and products out separately with separate crews.
There's no opportunity to integrate those pieces in a cost effective way no opportunity to standardize.
I understand every metering skid is unique to that particular pad.
Their separation systems whether it be temporary or permanent are unique to that pad.
There are tremendous opportunities for integration and standardization and bundling of services and products that really no other company has that capability or if they do they don't have the leadership position in those capabilities to pull that off.
We've been working with several operators on either bundling these capabilities providing standard equipment introducing new technology for more efficient separation for example.
And we're very encouraged by the at least the early signs of efficiency improvement that we can get from that final frac to that first oil.
That'll give us a competitive advantage and I think gives us a competitive advantage over other companies that don't have that suite of products and services.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Thanks John.
That's it for me.
From Susquehanna we have Chuck Minervino online.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Chuck.
Hey.
Just wanted to ask you John conceptually thinking I know it's a little early to be thinking about 2016 kind of subsea orders but just trying to figure out do you think 2015 is kind of that trough year of orders? Or did 2015 kind of benefit from some stuff that was still pretty far along in the pipeline and you kind of win those awards this year and maybe 2016 kind of trickles a little bit lower or if you think so much got pushed from 2015 to potentially in 2016 that 2016's likely to be up? Just kind of want your thoughts on that right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well thank you for the question Chuck.
Let me start though by describing the conversations we're having with our partners and actually virtually every operator.
The commitment by our partners and non-partners alike in terms of developing their huge deepwater portfolios that they have been so successful at discovering their commitment to development has completely unchanged.
There's been no evidence that I've seen in these conversations that the operators have had any change with regard to their plans to develop their portfolio and deliver future production from deepwater.
Virtually all the conversations are about how can we lower cost do things different improve returns so we can get on with developing our portfolio and delivering the production from our deepwater assets.
So in that context what the operators are doing is they're looking at their long list of projects that they had originally planned a year and a half ago two years ago to go through FID process and award projects and proceed with the development.
That long list for 2015 is being reevaluated.
And those projects – and the process of that reevaluation which takes time is pushing those projects to the right.
And that's one reason why you didn't see a lot of major projects or certainly for us major projects being awarded in the first quarter.
And it's why we believe that the projects that will be awarded this year are going to be pushed to the back end of 2015.
There will be some projects that will move from 2015 into 2016.
But this reevaluation process is a temporary stall or delay while they go through that reevaluation.
The reevaluation doesn't take years.
Eventually these projects get reevaluated.
They get back into the FID queue and you start seeing awards.
You're going to see that in the second half this year.
And then as you get into 2016 you're going to get back to a more normal flow of subsea awards because they would've gone through this FID queue and they'll get back to their developing their project portfolio.
I'm quite confident of that.
Therefore when you look at 2016 inbound and I'm obviously way ahead of my skis predicting what 2016 inbound will look like.
There's no reason to believe that it won't be higher than 2015 because you won't have this six-month delay while they go through the reevaluation process.
So absolutely it should start to return to normal in 2016 as the operators are successful in reworking their projects.
Great.
That's a very helpful description.
And then I just had one for Maryann as well.
I don't think I heard this in the prepared remarks.
But I was wondering if you can give us kind of the restructuring charges by segment just so we can get a sense of kind of what more the recurring margins were in these segments during the quarter.
Sure.
Yeah.
You're right.
I gave you a total.
So in total we spent about $10 million.
About 75% of that or about $8 million of it was actually in Surface some of it obviously in fluid as well.
So $8 million in surface.
I think hence my comment there so if you exclude those the margins that we were talking about within the Surface Technologies segment a quarter ago are really about what we were able to achieve in the first quarter.
Subsea is about 10% small.
We're in the early stages of that.
We've got a lot of backlog to execute.
The lion's share of the work that we'll do in Subsea will happen in the coming quarters.
And then of that $4 million to $5 million that I talked about going forward most of that will be in Subsea.
And then Energy Infrastructure was the balance about 15% of that a little over $1 million in the quarter.
That help? From Citigroup we have Scott Gruber on the line.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Scott.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> John I'd like to get your updated thoughts on the pace of share buybacks.
I recognize that you continued to repurchase.
But just given where the stock is trading at given your current backlog and your optimistic outlook toward recovering and project sanctioning in the second half of the year and into next year would you consider accelerating the buyback at this point? Would you consider putting on some debt to accelerate that pace? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Scott as we continue to manage our balance sheet better and better we would hope that we would continue a strong cash flow.
And with the stock in our view undervalued given where we are in the cycle we'd expect share repurchase to be significant going forward.
We – in the first quarter it was a little lower than what you saw in the fourth quarter.
That was driven solely by us being in a blackout period because of the Forsys announcement.
So I wouldn't look at the first quarter as necessarily being indicative of going forward.
As long as we continue to generate the cash that we expect we can and the stock is undervalued as we believe it is the stock repurchase will be an important part of our returning cash to the shareholders.
I'll let Maryann add some comments.
Just maybe one other thing to add onto John's comments we just received an additional authorization from our board of 15 million shares.
So that gives about 22 million shares left under the authorization.
So I think you can expect in the coming quarters given the valuation as John said that you will see us return to more discretionary purchasing given the valuation that we see but unlikely this year that we'll take on debt.
Clearly in this environment we'll be managing our cash as well as we're watching strong cash flows of course but we'll be managing cash as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And Maryann how much cash is required to run the business? And would you consider drawing down the cash balance a bit to accelerate that buyback? Yeah.
So we've actually just gone through a pretty lengthy exercise as we look out over where cash needs are going to be inside U.S.
outside U.S.
We've just increased our thresholds for cash requirements outside the U.S.
as we see quite a bit of growth.
Given the lower capital expenditure that we've got estimated for this year and probably again for next year we should be generating ample cash to be able to handle the share repurchase as well as run the business.
So really don't – and of course as you know we've got a quite a bit of liquidity available to us.
Very solid balance sheet.
So we don't see any issues with managing the business this year as well as being able to be opportunistic with respect to our share repurchase.
And our last question from Credit Suisse we have Jim Wicklund on the line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Jim.
A question.
You guys have mentioned that there needs to be a step change in the industry and this is a little bit of a follow-up on Chuck's question.
A step-change in the industry in terms of oil company behavior and standardization acceptance and by definition a step change requires some dislocation of the linear trend.
And so the question is and kind of like Chuck's is this the nadir of the year of dislocation and the recovery expectation you have for next year assumes that these step change issues have been resolved? This will be your fourth consecutive year of declining subsea orders so is this the bottom and the recovery we're looking for in 2016 means that these step-change issues that you've talked about the last couple of quarters will be resolved by then? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jim the step change is fundamental to the operators to change their trend of declining returns.
Subsea projects will be awarded.
Some will be awarded with and without the step change as we've seen over the last few years.
The step changes allow the operators to completely develop their entire portfolio of deepwater.
There's over 400 deepwater discoveries that have yet to be developed.
The pace of new discoveries versus projects that are being developed is greater and we need to get on – the industry needs to get on with accelerating the development of their discoveries and that's only going to happen with a step change.
But the 2016 for example and those improvements in subsea awards is going to happen in part because of the step change and also independent of the step change because there are projects in that queue that are economic and can contribute to our customers' production without the step change.
But ultimately the industry needs to do a step change so they can develop all their projects in their portfolios.
Okay.
And my follow-up if I could there's a number of companies out there now doing FEED studies for deepwater and subsea development.
And so you say Forsys will probably win its first commercial award this year and best of luck.
When should we see Forsys winning a FEED study start to turn into actual orders and then revenues for obviously Technip but for you guys? What's my timeframe of this actually seeing results? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
So as I said we expect to get a FEED study this year which is pretty fast.
Once the FEED's done and it demonstrates the savings that we are confident that it will and that project goes forward it still has to go through the final investment decision process and that takes – well it varies company by company but it can take six months to a year.
So we don't expect the first EPC contract until 2016.
Thank you.
We will now turn it back to you Brad Alexander for closing remarks.
This concludes our first quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2 PM Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our second quarter 2015 conference call on July 22 at 9 AM Eastern time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Brandon you may now end the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is Loraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Alexander.
Mr.
Alexander you may begin.
Thank you Loraine.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I would like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning.
Welcome to our second quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our Chief Financial Officer and Doug Pferdehirt our President and Chief Operating Officer.
I'll discuss highlights from the quarter Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Earnings were $0.46 per diluted share for the quarter.
Total company quarterly revenue was $1.7 billion and operating profit was $216 million.
Quarterly revenue for Subsea Technologies was $1.2 billion with margins of 14.8%.
Our focus on execution and the strength of our backlog has continued to drive our strong margins.
For the full year we still expect Subsea margins of around 15%.
Our activity levels remain near our record 2014 levels but our full year revenue will be down as a result of the strong U.S.
dollar.
Maryann will provide further detail on this currency impact.
Our quarterly Subsea Technologies inbound totaled $1 billion bringing our total for the first half of the year to $1.6 billion.
We recently received a $297 million BP Shah Deniz Stage 2 Project Award for Manifolds &amp; Controls in Azerbaijan.
This is a second major award we received from BP for this development.
Our second quarter Subsea orders also included awards for the long lead time materials for two large projects that we've been tracking.
We expect full funding for these awards in the coming quarters.
Second quarter value for each of these awards is relatively small but the total value for each of these projects will be significant.
Smaller project award activity increased sequentially and Subsea service activity remained strong during the quarter.
With year-to-date Subsea orders of $1.6 billion we now have increased confidence in exceeding $3 billion of Subsea awards.
This is supported by continued strength in our service activity increasing small order inbound and some large projects we expect to book before year-end.
Our customers remain committed to developing their deepwater portfolios and continue to evaluate their offshore projects for upcoming development.
Some of these are in advanced stages and are set to move forward with minimal changes to their original plans.
The design and scope of many projects however are being significantly reworked to reduce costs and improve project economics.
Operators are showing a willingness to accept alternative approaches to the traditional tendering process and are much more open to our vendor-based solutions.
As offshore projects make up a large part of the future production of many operators the achievement of improved project economics is imperative.
Our Forsys Subsea joint venture with Technip which became operational in June provides a meaningful and immediate step change in project economics.
The initial response received from operators both partners and non-partners alike has exceeded our expectations.
This includes IOCs NOCs and independent operators.
The potential fields are in basins throughout the world and the scope of the projects varies from tiebacks to greenfield developments.
The rate at which our clients have identified projects in their portfolios as strong candidates for FEED and concept design using Forsys Subsea capabilities demonstrates the importance of this new approach.
The pace and breadth of their commitment gives us confidence of at least one award in 2015 and that the first related EPCI award will come next year.
In our Surface Technologies segment revenue decreased 19% sequentially as we experienced significant declines in North America activity in the second quarter consistent with the 35% sequential U.S.
rig count decline and the impact of Canadian breakup.
More than 1 000 rigs have come out of the market in the last three quarters.
In response customer spending reductions have been significant and price reductions have had a greater impact on us than in prior down cycles.
Our daily fluid control orders fell dramatically in the quarter.
We do not expect material changes to this level in the third quarter and it's unlikely we'll see much recovery before 2016.
As we implement our integrated strategy for our North America business we continue to consolidate many of our bases and rationalize our workforce to improve our overall operating effectiveness.
Our Surface Wellhead business outside of North America continues to perform very well.
We continue to forecast strong activity through the remainder of the year but remain vigilant and we'll react swiftly should we see prolonged market weakness.
Looking forward the North America land market will remain challenged going into 2016.
We're taking actions to consolidate many of our operations within this segment.
These will make us a stronger more integrated business with greater capabilities and a lower cost structure.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver full-year Subsea margins of around 15%.
We will continue to right-size our Subsea organization in line with our improved efficiencies and anticipated activity levels while protecting our market leadership.
Deepwater assets continue to be a significant part of many operators' portfolios.
As project reevaluations move forward new approaches are beginning to emerge that improve overall project economics.
These are placing a greater reliance on vendor-based solutions and integrated field design and development.
We expect this will help the positive order momentum that began in the second quarter continue through the second half of 2015 and into next year.
Maryann will now take us through some of the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks John.
Before I review our operations I'd like to note that our quarterly earnings results were negatively impacted by total company restructuring charges in the quarter of $0.03 per diluted share and an IRS tax settlement charge of $0.03 per diluted share.
Our Subsea Technologies segment continues to deliver strong operating results.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation total revenue would have increased by $62 million year-over-year.
Subsea Technologies' operating profit was $184 million in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation total operating profit would have increased $15 million year-over-year.
Operating margins were 14.8%.
We incurred restructuring cost of $5.4 million in the quarter.
Excluding these costs margins were 15.2% a sequential improvement of 60 basis points from the first quarter.
These results are driven by our solid execution of a strong project backlog and the continued strength of Subsea service activity despite weaker activity in the North Sea.
Although our activity remains high we were able to reduce further our Subsea head count during the quarter in areas where our internal standardization efforts have delivered efficiency improvements.
In the coming quarters workforce reductions will be more reflective of the anticipated decrease in future-year activity due to delayed Subsea project inbound.
We anticipate an additional $15 million to $20 million of charges in the second half of the year.
Further head count reductions will be made to support future activity levels.
Given the international composition of Subsea we have experienced continued headwinds of the strong U.S.
dollar.
In the first half of 2015 the U.S.
dollar is significantly stronger than currencies we have the greatest exposure to NOK euro and the real.
Subsea revenue for the first six months of 2015 includes a $251 million unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation total revenue increased by $117 million year-over-year.
Operating profit included a $35 million unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation operating profit increased $52 million.
Moving to Surface Technology results Surface Technologies' operating profit for the second quarter was $28 million with a margin of 7.5%.
In the quarter we incurred restructuring cost of $2.8 million.
Excluding these costs margins were 8.3%.
These results are reflective of the severe slowdown we are seeing in all of our North American land businesses.
The sequential drop also includes the impact of Canadian breakup.
We have now largely completed the planned head count reductions associated with the lower activity levels.
As John stated we do not expect to see much recovery before next year.
Therefore our overall U.S.
activity is likely to be lower in the second half of the year when compared with the first half.
We expect some of this decline to be offset by improvement in our Completion Services business which will benefit from increased activity in Canada as we come out of breakup.
As we have been discussing we are in the process of reducing our operating cost structure in North America while integrated related services on the pad.
We expect these actions to continue throughout the remainder of the year and will result in further head count reductions.
These actions will reduce cost and improve our competitive position as market recovers.
Our Surface Wellhead business outside of North America continued to perform well primarily related to activity in the Middle East offset by some volume decline in Europe.
Segment backlog exiting the quarter stands at $467 million.
This is predominantly Surface Wellhead business outside of North America.
Energy Infrastructure operating income for the second quarter was $5 million with a margin of 5.2%.
In the quarter we incurred restructuring cost of $1.3 million.
Excluding this cost margins were 6.5%.
We experienced sequential improvement in our Loading Systems business but it was partially offset by weakness in our Measurement Solutions business due to slower activity.
We expect segment margins to approach double digits in the back half of the year due to Loading Systems' continued improvement and somewhat higher activity levels for Measurement.
Let's turn to the corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $14 million.
We expect spending of approximately $15 million per quarter throughout 2015.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $30 million.
The majority of the higher-than-forecast expense relates to foreign currency losses primarily associated with the devaluation of the Angolan kwanza.
Given the potential for future devaluation of the kwanza it is possible we will incur further losses in the second half of the year.
For the remainder of 2015 we expect other revenue and expense to be approximately $14 million per quarter of expense with the potential for further foreign currency fluctuations increasing that amount.
Our second quarter tax rate was 34.1%.
This includes a U.S.
tax adjustment of $8 million or $0.03 per diluted share related to an IRS audit settlement for years 2007 through 2011.
Excluding this our tax rate would have been 29%.
We continue to expect our 2015 full-year tax rate to be between 25% and 27% which includes the U.S.
tax audit settlement.
Capital spending this quarter was $75 million.
We expect capital spending in 2015 of approximately $250 million.
At the end of the second quarter we had net debt of $699 million.
It was comprised of $587 million of cash and $1.3 million of debt.
We averaged 233 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
And we repurchased 1.5 million shares of stock during the second quarter at an average cost of $41.62 per share.
Looking forward Energy Infrastructure revenue will be down at least 20% year-over-year with full-year margins in the mid- to high-single digits negatively impacted by the results in the first half of the year and slower activity in our Measurement Systems business.
Surface Technologies revenue will be down at least 25% from last year due to reduced North America market activity and continued pricing pressure.
Full-year operating margins should be approximately 12% excluding severance cost.
Subsea revenue for the full-year should be approximately $4.8 billion.
We continue to expect Subsea margins of around 15% as service activity levels remain high and we continue to execute well on our backlog.
The current market conditions are presenting a number of challenges to our near-term results.
However the strategies we are implementing across our businesses will result in long-term cost savings while preserving our capability to improve our execution as the market recovers.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question.
And our first question comes from Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to kind of follow up on Subsea margins.
Maryann you mentioned that as your backlog starts to come down as your backlog starts to come down you'll reduce your workforce appropriately.
What other steps can you take as your backlog comes down to try to preserve margins into 2016? Yeah.
Good morning.
So maybe just a little bit of color before I completely address your question.
As we look back at prior cycles this cycle looks very different than it has in the past.
So first of all we're coming off of a very solid well-priced backlog in this cycle versus last.
You may remember during the last down cycle we were in the process of actually growing our head count to prepare for growth.
In this cycle actually we've begun our reduction of workforce heading into this cycle so another positive.
You've seen growth in our Subsea services for the last several quarters.
And then lastly as we have demonstrated our execution continues to improve.
All of those things will work quite well for us.
Standardization and all the internal work that we have done if you will to rationalize the workforce as well as standardize our own internal portfolio will help that as well.
All of those things give us confidence in our ability to maintain those margins this year.
Clearly next year we'll have some struggle at maintaining a 15% margin obviously because of pricing but we are very confident that we will not see the level of margin this cycle that we did last.
So we will not see single-digit margins next cycle.
Okay.
Is there a way to think about as we look into next year of all the moving parts is to think about the magnitude of the margin deterioration given all the factors you mentioned? Yeah.
So again we're a little early stages.
Obviously as we look at the next couple of quarters and the inbound orders that are coming in that will have some impact on it.
But again we are not expecting single digit.
I would tell you kind of low-double-digit margins for 2016 is what we're looking at.
A little bit difficult for us to sort of give you some quarterly rollout of that just yet.
Keep in mind you remember always our first quarter versus our fourth quarter is always cycled down because of service levels.
That help? Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Maryann if we could stick on Subsea margins here for a second and talk a little bit more about the glide path 15% margin for this year low-double-digit margin for next year.
Walk me through that again because I mean I get the virtues (19:29) with regard to well price backlog right-sizing head count positive mix shift in Subsea services offset by perhaps operating leverage and pricing.
Just strikes me that the latter two are going to have a disproportionate impact in 2016 to arrive at a low-double-digit margin.
So can you amplify on that for me? Yeah.
Sure.
So Bill keep in mind we are still working off of a very solid backlog right.
Got that.
As you know right as we're going to be inbounding more price sensitive the first if you will sort of 12 months of a project we typically don't see much more than 10% to 15% of that roll through.
Okay.
So your comments are probably more impacting 2017 than they will be 2016.
So we'll still be rolling off as you know we started the year with a pretty substantial backlog.
So we'll still be rolling off a lot of that well-priced backlog into 2016.
Later in 2016 and beginning into 2017 is when you'll really see the impact of that lower margin.
And by then we're quite hopeful that all of the additional cost structuring work that we're doing all of the work within Subsea and the internal standardization will help us offset that as well.
So I think you can begin to talk about the end of 2016 seeing that challenge as we move into 2017 with some of that newly priced inbound given the pricing pressures.
Okay.
So that makes more sense to me.
So a low-double-digit margin kind of in 2017 somewhere in between 2016.
So that makes more sense to me.
Secondly John if you could just talk a little bit more about – you've talked about this before but I'd love to hear kind of a specific update with regard to your narrative on vendor based solutions and the change in mindset on the part of your customer base.
What anecdotes can you provide us on that front please? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Bill.
We're seeing it really from two fronts.
A lot of our partners and non-partners alike are engaged in discussions with us on how we can improve their project economics other than exclusively through price.
And that's where we're able to push our standards our new technology and obviously the execution improvements that we've made.
So those conversations are happening as just in the normal course again with partners and non-partners alike.
The other obvious thing that's happening and I'd like to ask Doug to give more specific commentary on the actual discussions is the introduction of Forsys.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks that the reaction by partners non-partners large small independents even NOCs the reaction to the Forsys concept has really exceeded our expectations.
And so it's through that mechanism we're also seeing the operators engage with us on the ways that we can accelerate new technology adoption drive standards which has been a challenge for the industry and then these new business models through Forsys.
So I'll ask Doug to talk – we've got a couple of really very specific conversations with a whole variety of operators particularly around the Forsys concept and I think that might illustrate the operators' reaction to change.
Doug? Thanks John.
Yeah Bill very interesting meetings that we've had a result of the Forsys Subsea announcement and introduction into the market.
We closed in early June and we're now out actively engaging with our clients.
And as John said it's a wide breadth of clients both partners non-partners IOCs NOCs and independent operators.
And as a result of that we've entered into discussions deep within their organizations where they've actually assigned teams to work along our teams to look at ways to work differently.
This means not only the subsea field architecture and the installation of that architecture but also the way that we look at the life of the field and how we look at production over the life of the field and therefore how we design the up-front equipment and how we introduce sensors and monitoring as a result of that.
But what's really quite intriguing is we'll often go in prepared to talk about a particular project or a particular opportunity and before the meeting's over we've had on more than one occasion the customer introduce to us a portfolio of projects.
And these are those projects that have been if you will on the cusp or just slightly outside of the – the project economics have been just outside of the threshold to move those projects forward.
And they're now introducing that portfolio and saying "Look if this can work we have multiple projects that we'd like to conduct under this manner." Now this does mean a change of commercial behavior and in any organization there's resistance to changes to commercial behavior.
But we're seeing a very quick and early uptake and a willingness to move forward and operate in a different manner.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Bill.
My first question is referring to the Surface business.
Maryann you gave guidance here for margins for full year averaging at 12% which is at the low end of the guidance you gave on the first quarter call of 12% to 13% yet you had a big step down in profitability in 2Q here.
It's clearly I think worse that you all's expectations at the time of the first quarter call.
What's giving you guys the confidence now to see that kind of margin ramp in the back half of the year to get you back to almost even with what you guys thought 90 days ago? Hey Bill.
So I think I mentioned in my comments a lot of the head count reductions in Surface that we've been talking about have largely been made.
We will continue to see the benefit of that in the back half of the year along with beginning to see some of the benefits of the restructuring.
We still have more work to do with respect to the integration of the pad that John has talked about as well but we expect to get some benefit.
So the absence of severance cost in the back half of the year and the benefit from the lower work force given we've taken out about 15% of that head count in Surface so far this year.
So just the timing was delayed in 2Q Maryann from when you all expected to kind of get that benefit? Is that a fair way to think about it? I mean it doesn't look like the margin decline was as structural as maybe one would think just looking at the release.
So again Bill I think first of all the second quarter pricing pressure was a little bit worse than what we had expected.
We think that will continue but we do believe that the back half of the year we will have the benefit of all of the cost reduction initiatives that were taken.
We moved more aggressively in the first half of the year than initially thought as we saw these actions happening.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
So John it's easy to understand if you and Thierry meet with the C-level executives amongst your clients that they are very receptive for the concept of Forsys.
But to what extent – can you elaborate a little bit more on to what extent you are seeing this being accepted lower down in the oil company organizations? Because that's typically where you get the biggest resistance.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ole.
Let me kind of hopefully not digress but sort of set the stage.
When you think of any industry particularly our industry attempting to go through a major step change in how we do business it seems like it requires certain things.
First of all it requires the business imperative which now we have not just because of low oil prices but because of declining returns.
So there's a sense of urgency there's a business imperative to make change.
And we've talked about that before.
It can't be incremental change to improve the returns.
They have to be significant material and they have to be sustainable.
So the industry it has that imperative because of the declining returns.
The second I think important thing is that the solution that drives a step change it has to be real it has to be tangible and it has to be compelling.
And the Forsys Subsea change in business model is very much that.
And then thirdly if you're going to make a step change it has to be relatively simple to implement.
Something that's compounded just complex and convoluted is going to be very difficult for an industry to make that kind of a step change.
And then finally and this ultimately may be the most important thing if you're asking an industry to make a significant step change it requires a leap of faith and a leap of faith requires some level of trust.
And so when I think of – when Thierry and I and the team talk to operators and again as Doug described it is the full range.
I was actually pretty surprised that of all oil companies national oil companies are even interested in that.
But it's large small it's these four elements that end up in the conversation.
It almost always ends up around trust.
And you're right.
Given the relationships that we've built at all levels in the organization through our partnerships and non-partnerships there's a great deal of trust there and I think we're capitalizing on that as we have this conversation about how to make a step change.
What is especially interesting and Doug alluded to it it's not uncommon when we approach an operator that very quickly we get beyond the interest and intrigue into this new concept and fairly quickly in the course of even the initial meeting we're talking about specific projects.
And as Doug said we go from specific projects to the entire portfolio.
What we've also seen happen and I think it was – well to a degree it's being adopted is unexpected very quickly we go from the C-level conversation and the high level vectors to assigning a joint project team to pursue applying this concept to a likely candidate from their portfolio.
So very quickly we're getting – and this is especially true of the smaller independents who don't have all those layers very quickly we get to a project team with the operator joined with ours pursuing that with the direction from the C-level.
So we've actually been pretty impressed especially with smaller independents even some that have been non-partners of ours of how quickly they've been able to influence and convince the levels below them to seriously look at this concept.
Now a larger operator with many many more levels maybe a larger subsea organization that has to be convinced I don't think we're naïve.
We know that it's going to take more of an effort.
But one of the things that is different here though again is even at C-level and below they're going beyond the interest and intrigue and they're naming projects.
And I think that'll be one of the keys.
Doug do you want to add to that based on your more specific experience in some of these conversations? No.
As John pointed out Ole it's very very positive in the – it's not just the tone and not just the interest in the concept but it's actually standing up teams engaging directly with the project teams because as you alluded to there's often resistance between the C-level and the coal face when it comes time to implement change.
It's there we're not naïve.
We recognize it's there but there's been much less resistance than we had expected to experience.
And even with the large operators we're sitting there talking about fields and again portfolios of opportunities that they're anxious to move forward now that there's a solution.
And as John said the commercial model although it's different because of the combination of our two companies and the breadth of our two companies in the offering and the simplicity in the commercial model they're wanting to embrace that and taking the necessary actions to do so.
Okay.
So (32:52) have a little bit further along here.
Could you give us an update on your thought process on overall cost reduction from the average if there is such a thing kind of mid-deepwater field development? I mean we had the pleasure (33:05) some detail with Tore in Norway and he made one specific example of a big West Africa project where there was a rather substantial project but the cost saving on the Subsea and installation but I don't know if that was a unique situation.
So what's your latest thought on offshore cost reductions let's say compared to how things were done a few years ago and how you think you can deliver a year or two out? Thank you for the question and obviously an important question and that is the value proposition.
And again it comes from a combination of improved execution standardization new technology driving new technology that's going to reduce the footprint but more importantly the overall operating cost both in terms of the installability uptime and serviceability.
In addition to that there's – obviously we're trying to drive new business new commercial models through Forsys Subsea.
We have several examples several examples of where we're working with our customers right now as they either reengineer projects that had not moved forward given the current economics and/or new projects including both tiebacks and greenfields.
And we're going through these if you will these four steps to drive and improve the overall Subsea project economics with the overall objective of obviously creating more market and moving those projects forward.
We continue to see savings in the range that we had previously indicated and that you indicated.
And again it depends on the particular project and can come from a combination of those things again standardization new technology and enhanced and improved commercial models.
But yes we continue to see those type of results.
And that's why we're going from a theoretical discussion and – not only to a single project but to a portfolio of projects discussion because we're able to realize those type of savings.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from David Anderson from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> John I was wondering if you can just comment a little bit of a comment kind of more the near-term outlook on the Subsea side.
We've heard from service companies talking about a shift in offshore from exploration towards development.
You put up a nice number in Subsea today with increased confidence on the $3 billion number.
I understand all the talk about change of business model.
That doesn't seem to be what's happening right now in the market.
Can you talk a little bit more what's happening right now in these orders and your confidence? Is it because the projects or – our costs are coming down enough to move projects ahead? Are these things – is this more about cash flow? Can you just help us understand a little bit more about how the order pattern develops over the next call it six to 12 months? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
So Dave let's talk about the balance of 2015 and why we have confidence in exceeding the $3 billion.
So obviously we had a strong Q2.
You add the Q1 and Q2 together $1.6 billion.
We're over halfway to our target of $3 billion.
What gives us the confidence? We said in the last quarter that we were pleased with the Subsea service activity in the first quarter.
It sort of mirrored the run rates that we had in 2014.
We thought it would hold up.
It did hold up in the second quarter.
Second quarter Subsea service numbers were equivalent actually a little bit better than the first quarter numbers.
That's two quarters in a row in this downturn of Subsea service inbound holding up.
That gives us confidence.
The second thing is the small less than $100 million orders.
In the first quarter they were down substantially from our run rate in 2014.
In the second quarter they bounced back fairly significantly sequentially.
And they start to mirror the small order inbound that we got in 2013 and 2014.
And we hope that that was the case.
I think in the first quarter call we said that we thought the low number on small orders was a result of the operators kind of stopping everything while they redid their budgets and we were hopeful that that would come back this year.
And sure enough it did in Q2.
So we expect that number to be stronger going forward.
Obviously winning the Shah Deniz project was important to us and we had counted on that.
We were tracking a handful of other projects some of which we expect to be inbounded in 2015.
Winning two major projects long lead time material is really important to us.
That means those projects are likely to go ahead and it means that we're going to win them.
Now when they actually fall they could move into 2016 but that gives us a lot of confidence that we'll pick up the couple of projects we need for the balance of the year and therefore now we have more confidence that we'll exceed the $3 billion target that we put out there.
So that's 2015.
Now going into 2016 it's what you alluded to.
The long list of projects – over $7 billion of major projects had been identified for 2015 before the downturn.
Those have all now been deferred – many of them not all but many of them have been deferred and they're being reworked.
We expect that rework which is happening fairly fast and hopefully in part even due to the efforts that we're working with our partners whether it's Forsys or non-Forsys to improve those economics that those start to move forward.
And we should start seeing that move forward balance of 2015 into 2016 and we start to ramp back up at some point to the historical numbers of Subsea developments that we saw in the past.
We know that the discoveries are there we know the fields are there the portfolios are there.
The question is how fast can the operators adopt some of these new concepts rework their scope of these development projects and get back to the pace that we saw in 2013 and 2014.
But we expect that to start picking up in 2016.
I'm not saying the 2016 inbound level will replicate 2013 or 2014 but we ought to see some sort of ramp up as this backlog of projects go through the rework process go through the FID process and turn into awards.
Inc.</span></strong> So in other words you were talked about the smaller awards in the services side? I guess I could think about that as sort of more cash flow driven or kind of it generates more cash flow for IOCs.
So is there enough running room right now from what you see over the next call it 12 months to kind of stabilize that part and then the incremental comes from lower project costs.
Is that kind of a good way to think about it for the next 12 months? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's an excellent way to think about it.
One reason why we saw the Q2 bump up in smaller projects not surprisingly they were in the Gulf of Mexico and many of them were our partners.
We have a lot of partners in the Gulf of Mexico.
We have a strong position.
The Gulf of Mexico the projects are smaller they don't cut as much into the capital budgets.
They usually have better economics because they're tying back through existing infrastructure.
They happen faster because national oil companies aren't involved in the production sharing contract bidding process.
So yeah I think the smaller projects bounce back first because they're generally Gulf of Mexico related and they don't have – they're smaller so their capital demands are less and the lead times are faster.
So yeah I guess when you think about it that way they would come back faster.
The bigger projects they're going to come back as they're being more related to the pace of rework.
I think that's a great way to look at it.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks John.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Doug Becker from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Certainly don't want to beat a dead horse but still want to get a little more clarity on the Subsea margins.
Is the low-double-digit margin commentary related to new work or really for Subsea Technologies overall? In other words 2016 margins should be higher than that double digits and then for 2017 while it's still early margins may be gravitating toward that level but there's the potential for offsets with the cost inefficiencies? Yeah.
So my comment about the sort of low-double-digit margins is the comment on average for 2016.
The first half of the year we would obviously expect to be a bit stronger than the back half of the year as we're working off backlog.
So in my comment to address 2017 is when you would actually see more backlog being converted to revenue from what we expect to be lower-priced inbound coming in now.
And at that juncture in 2017 much more of the cost reduction work that we're doing and the rationalization of the workforce as well as other structural changes within Subsea should be able to offset that in 2017.
Got it.
And then John maybe just a little more color on the moving parts in Subsea services for 2016 particularly as it relates to at least it would seem like the potential for lower installation work just because of the slowdown this year and then uncertainty around refurbishment work in Norway next year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Certainly the installation-related service activity will be driven by our backlog and that will start to decline.
So we're anticipating some.
It's a little hard to predict that.
I mean they've got equipment at inventory and so forth.
So it's a little hard to predict.
But we would expect installation to start to drift down.
Actually the refurbishment outside of Norway is holding up pretty well.
Our Brazilian operation believe it or not is holding up well.
Gulf of Mexico is very very strong and probably will actually get stronger in 2016 because of that load.
The refurbishment in Norway decline is mostly around 2015.
We haven't set targets for 2016 yet so I wouldn't count that out yet.
I think 2016 we have to look at capital budgets how they're formed we've got to get a bigger sense.
But we're not – there will be some pressure on Subsea service revenue in 2016 just because of the declining backlog.
But beyond that I think the rest should remain solid.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Kurt.
I just (43:27) a lot of conversation so far in Subsea so I'll shift it a bit and ask about Surface.
You already mentioned and gave us some insights on the improvement in margins the back half of the year.
As we roll forward can you give us some general sense as to how much your business going into 2016 may be driven by frac equipment versus other dynamics around Surface? And given the significant excess capacity and some major service companies have indicated 50% spare capacity in the business give us some indication of how you might see a improvement in frac equipment orders as you kind of work through that excess.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Kurt just to ground everybody our largest historically and even today in the downturn and most significant business in onshore surface North America is our Fluid Control business.
The Fluid Control business is one step back in the supply chain.
Our customers aren't the E&amp;P customers.
Our customers are the pressure pumpers.
So we're encouraged that the pressure pumpers are coming out saying that they've seen the bottom.
That's good news.
We can't say that because our biggest customer is them and between their reaction to rig count and their orders to us are things like inventory levels their restocking plans and the degree to which they've cannibalized assets that are underutilized.
We don't have that kind of visibility so we wouldn't necessarily want to call the bottom right away until we see the pressure pumpers stabilize and increase their activity to Fluid Control.
But it's got to happen.
The good news is they see the bottom.
Eventually they run out of their inventory eventually they have to restock.
You can't cannibalize forever and we'll start to see that uptick.
So that's how we view the balance of 2015.
For all of Surface we think it'll be relatively flat.
We're a little unsure of Fluid Control so we don't want to call it yet.
But then we see the recovery starting in 2016 and the restocking that'll occur by the pressure pumpers we'll start to see the uptick in our most significant business in Surface Wellhead Fluid Control.
Okay.
That's great.
Great color.
Appreciate that.
Maybe just one follow-up.
In terms of use of cash you indicated your CapEx plans for the remainder of the year.
Just wondering what you may be seeing out there in terms of any acquisition opportunities and bid-ask spreads related to acquisition opportunities.
Have they narrowed at all? And how does that kind of dovetail into the prospect for buying back some more stock? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
So as you pointed out our capital spend is down.
It'll stay down.
We have plenty of capacity.
Even our most recent investments in Subsea service-related assets should start to slow.
So that number will stay down.
We don't anticipate it ticking up at all over the next couple of years.
So the remaining cash will certainly be available for M&amp;A.
You know in the environment in this kind of environment it does present opportunities.
Our approach really for the last six or so years has been to focus our M&amp;A attention on fulfilling our growth strategies for the business and that's not going to change.
There are things that we can do to support our growth strategies and as there are opportunities available to use our cash for that we will.
We don't anticipate and we're not pursuing any kind of transformational acquisition at all.
We're very much focused on our existing growth strategy so M&amp;A will be related to that.
And then surplus cash we'll probably continue our – depending on the nature of the cash flows remember we are still in uncertain times will be directed towards stock buybacks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brad Handler from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Maryann a couple questions from me.
Maybe I'll ask them both and just let you address both.
The first is thanks to you guys I now know that the Angolan kwanza has devalued by 6% in June.
I was not aware of that before.
But the black market suggests that it could devalue a whole lot more as you alluded to in your comments.
But could you help us understand if it does indeed trade down to the 190 (48:06) level that the black market is trading to what's the financial impact on you? What steps can you take to protect against that as we think about the corporate? So that's question number one.
And question number two is simpler I guess.
Accounts receivable were up a fair amount in 2Q.
What is your thoughts around – was that related to one big customer? What are your thoughts around working that back down as we might have expected in the second half of the year? Thanks.
Hi Brad.
Sure.
So with respect to the kwanza we have a couple of opportunities to protect against that sort of going forward.
But you're right and hence that's why I made the comment that there is some risk given the dependence on oil price and oil revenues to that economy.
We are protected largely until the time at which we actually bill.
So we have sort of two elements of risk.
One is the receivable risk.
And we have been and continue to be talking with our customers.
Much of our contractual language gives us relief and protection.
Some of our customers we have actually been able to reach good conclusion with.
Others we are still in the process.
So customer discussions to protect that in other words once we invoice we have to invoice in kwanza as you know from the law change in 2013.
And so that's where the risk exist in further devaluation as we're waiting for payment.
Once we get payment of course then we have the cash risk.
So our opportunities there in addition to working with our customers to protect us so that neither one of us are unfairly penalized if you will is looking at opportunities to invest in country.
That is a challenge but we're looking very hard at being able to do that.
So we would have some interest income to offset any potential.
And then most importantly is to minimize the amount of assets sitting in country.
You know at that point in time we happened to be sitting with a fairly large receivable position which is why it happened.
So we are also looking at good measures for us to be able to minimize the amount of kwanza that we have sitting there.
There is a forward market for kwanza but it's about a three-month market and it's on average about 40% cost to us.
So heretofore we have made the conscious decision not to do that and we think obviously so far that has been the right decision.
So customer discussions movement of cash reinvestment of cash and obviously doing everything we can to minimize the amount of cash that's sitting out there.
Okay.
On the receivables question no nothing in particular.
We are moving a lot of projects into final execution phase.
So we have no concerns over any receivable risk whatsoever.
This is just normal business as we would've expected; no risk here at all.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Rob MacKenzie from IBERIA Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I guess my question will be for you Doug.
Having worked both in the equipment and on the service side of the business recently one of your competitors is mimicking your Forsys venture bringing in a SURF player and already has a downhole component if you will to their joint venture.
Do you see any strategic benefit in further expanding the Forsys joint venture to go more downhole? Hey Rob.
Thank you.
Just to reiterate what John said.
There's really four components that are required to successfully transform a business model or to introduce a new commercial model.
There's the environment there's a true real value-added compelling proposition.
And there's simplicity in the concept and therefore the ease of implementation.
And then trust to make the leap of faith or the change.
And we really think those are the four key elements.
So regardless of the configuration of companies if you cannot meet those four requirements it will introduce barriers and challenges along the way.
And as we've been able to articulate this morning and hopefully convince you we're getting that feedback and we're moving forward in a very positive way.
In regards to the reservoir we work very closely with our clients and so when we talk about a Forsys Subsea approach that's really a combination between the two industry leaders being Technip in the SURF category and FMC Technologies in the SPS category.
And our customer and our customer brings that knowledge and that competence and that ownership of the reservoir to the table and we work very closely together.
Great.
Thank you.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Byron Pope from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I just have a very quick question on Surface Technologies.
John you mentioned in your prepared remarks that the pricing reductions in Surface North America Surface were a bit worse than you expected.
And was that the case across Wellheads Fluid Control and Completion Service? And my sense is that might just be a function of how far and fast activity has fallen as opposed to there being some industry structure change that has made the pricing environment tougher.
So just was hoping you could comment on that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well Byron I think you're right.
One it was across the board and you got it right.
I mean when we gave our estimate of what the impact in the downturn would be on Surface we were reflecting on past downturns.
It's all we had to go on.
And this downturn is different.
The pressure on pricing and what we've had to accept across the board Surface Fluid Control Completion Services has been much more severe than we saw in the past.
And I think you're right.
It's the severity and the steepness and the speed at which this downturn occurred drove much more aggressive pricing pressure and that's what made this cycle different than the past and why our Q2 numbers were disappointing from where we thought they would be.
As Maryann pointed out we're taking action.
We didn't anticipate this cycle to be different.
Now that it is we're going through another round of restructuring.
And I think more importantly if I can Byron I'd like to talk a little bit about our North America strategy because that's more than just restructuring.
It's really transforming our approach in North America.
Maybe Doug you can walk Byron through how we see North America in the future even beyond the downturn.
Yeah.
We're putting in place very structural and sustainable changes to the way that we operate our business in North America.
As you know we have three primary businesses in North America and they have worked somewhat autonomously in the past servicing their individual portions of the market.
We think there's real value in the integration of those services and that's why we made the acquisition we made a couple years back to really fulfill the requirements to be able to offer that full integrated solution.
So we call that Surface Integrated Solutions and that's our North America business.
And as we discussed last quarter and John just alluded to the transformation of that is underway.
Our SIS offering provides a unique combination of surface products and services providing our customers the benefit of accelerated time to sales and optimized flow rates.
We're progressing well with the necessary operational and structural changes to enable the offering.
And in the quarter as we indicated we took structural charges related to not only the severe drop in activity as John pointed out but also because we have the opportunity now to optimize our operating footprint.
So we've had several base closures and also additional head count reductions associated with a leaner flatter organization.
And then finally we're shifting our supply chain to more optimal cost base which will provide even additional benefit.
So we're confident that these tactical actions along with the enhanced commercial model or this integrated approach will yield elevated and sustainable results.
The full benefit of which – we won't begin to see the full benefit until 2016.
But as Maryann pointed out some of the more tactical steps that we're taking we'll see the benefit in the second half of this year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jim.
Maryann are Subsea services margins accretive to Subsea? You mean Subsea Technologies in total? The answer is yes Jim.
Okay.
And so the intervention work which isn't really backlog driven in those type services should continue to grow for the next couple of years regardless of slowdown in new project awards right? Yeah.
So you're right.
We are very optimistic about the growth of Subsea services.
For 2016 we're assuming that we'll be able to continue levels.
We'll see continued operation of Light Well Intervention both in the North Sea and then obviously the potential for the Gulf of Mexico as well.
So yes that would be improvements to the margin.
And we're quite optimistic that we'll see those levels continue into 2016.
Okay.
And you talk about the $5 million-plus in restructuring in Subsea in the quarter and you said there was another $15 million to $20 million in restructuring charges and I'm sorry my phone may have missed it.
Is that this year or next year or just in future periods? Yeah Jim.
I'm talking all about 2015 right now.
You may remember a call or two ago we talked about somewhere in the neighborhood of 10% reduction as we were preparing and watching for this downturn.
We are probably going to approach close to 15% of total head count.
Much of Surface has already been done but given the activity levels that we've got in Subsea we've only begun to work on our Subsea structure where standardization has given us efficiency gains.
So what we'll be doing in the balance of this year will largely be Subsea as we're preparing for lower volumes but I am talking that number in 2015.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Alexander for closing remarks.
This concludes our second quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 PM Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our third quarter 2015 conference call on October 21 at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Loraine you may now end the call.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2015 Earnings Analyst Call.
My name is Cory and I’ll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I’ll now turn the call over to James Davis.
Mr.
Davis you may begin.
Thank you Cory.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our Web site.
I’d like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they were made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I’ll now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our third quarter 2015 conference call.
With me today are Maryann Seaman our Chief Financial Officer and Doug Pferdehirt our President and Chief Operating Officer.
I'll discuss highlights from the quarter Maryann will provide specifics on our financial performance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
Earnings were $0.61 per diluted share for the quarter excluding the impairment charges of $60.2 million and total company restructuring charges of $18 million.
Total company quarterly revenue was $1.5 billion and operating profit was $224 million again excluding the impairment and business restructuring charges.
Quarterly revenue for Subsea Technologies was $1.1 billion with margins of 16.9% excluding the Subsea business restructuring charges.
Our focus on execution and the strength of our backlog continues to drive our strong margins.
For the full year we still expect Subsea margins excluding the restructuring charges of around 15%.
Our quarterly Subsea Technologies inbound orders totaled more than $1 billion for the second quarter in a row bringing our year-to-date total to $2.6 billion.
Improved deepwater project economics are imperative to ensure that this critical resource is available to meet the world’s future hydrocarbon demand.
Our focus on improved execution standardization innovative technology and the vendor based integrated business models were both significantly and sustainably reduced cost and improve returns for deepwater developments.
We recently announced awards for Statoil’s Johan Sverdrup project in Norway and Shell’s Appomattox project in the Gulf of Mexico.
In the case of both of these awards we collaborated closely with our customers to identify the most cost effective solutions to improve project economics.
Given the award to achieve this quarter the anticipated smaller orders next quarter and sustaining a strong level of Subsea services activity we have further confidence to achieve our targeted full-year inbound guidance of at least $3 billion of inbound orders in 2015.
Based on the number of named future Subsea projects and the progress made on improving project economics 2016 Subsea market activity has the potential to be on par with 2015.
However given the continued uncertainty of oil prices and capital spending by the operators we lack the visibility to project Subsea orders for next year.
Now despite this uncertainty operators remain committed to deepwater.
They’re prioritizing capital spending towards production.
And they’ve been successful in improving project economics all of which support the future growth in Subsea activity.
Operators continue to show willingness to accept vendor based approaches versus the traditional client specific requirements.
An example of this is the addition of Chevron to our high pressure high temperature joint industry program that was announced in July of last year.
Our Company along with five operators are collaborating to help solve the technical and economic deepwater challenges through standardization of materials processes and interfaces.
We continued supporting our customers producing assets by leveraging our installed footprint and technology leadership to improve project economics through cost savings and increased recovery.
We reached an agreement to produce some multiphase pump solution for Shell’s BC-10 Field in Brazil to replace the current separation in boosting modules.
At this time the agreement covers just the first boosting unit.
As we previously mentioned in our second quarter earnings call the initial response from operators to Forsys Subsea our joint venture with Technip exceeded our expectations.
Operators acceptance of our vendor based integrated approach at the concept stage has been both real and compelling is evident by the receipt of two integrated front-end engineering studies in this quarter.
The commitment from these operators gives us further confidence that our alliance with Technip will be awarded and integrated EPC contract in 2016.
Turning to the performance of our Surface Technologies segment revenue remain flat sequentially as our Surface Wellhead business outside of North America performed well offset by further weakness in our North America onshore business.
Given the decline in the North American onshore activity our Fluid Control orders remain well below historic levels.
The North American rig count is expected to further deteriorate and in response customer spending remains depressed and pricing will remain under pressure.
In light of this market outlook we’ve taken aggressive action and continue to streamline our North American initiatives to improve our cost structure.
Our Surface Wellhead business outside of North America performed well in the quarter.
We expect activity to remain similar to current levels as we end the year.
However we expect future months where we begin to show the impact of pricing pressure as a result of the deteriorating global market.
We are restructuring our operations in response to this weaker market.
In summary we continue to see a challenge North America land market and do not expect any recovery as we go into 2016.
we are taking aggressive action as we manage through this downturn to improve our operating effectiveness and we continue to accelerate our strategic initiatives to improve our position in the North American onshore market.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver full-year Subsea margins of around 15% excluding restructuring charges.
We will continue to strategically restructure our Subsea segment in line with anticipated activity levels and also in a way that allows us to sustainably operate with a leaner organization in anticipation of a market recovery.
During the quarter we achieved important milestones in our effort to improve deepwater project economics through execution standardization technology and new business models.
These milestones are also evidence of the industry’s willingness to adapt real and compelling changes and how deepwater fields are developed.
Maryann will now take you through the financial details of the quarter.
Thanks John.
Before I review our operations I'd like to note as announced on Monday that our third quarter earnings results were negatively impacted by impairment charges primarily in our Surface Technologies segment of $0.20 per diluted share.
We also incurred business restructuring charges mainly in the Subsea Technology segment of $0.06 per diluted share as previously communicated.
When excluding the impact of these two items diluted earnings per share were $0.61 for the quarter.
Our Subsea Technologies segment continued to deliver strong operating results as we executed well on our strong project backlog and cost reduction initiatives are being realized.
Quarter-over-quarter revenue comparisons were negatively impacted by $155 million of foreign currency translation.
Subsea Technologies operating profit of $171 million in the quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter comparisons were negatively impacted by $27 million of foreign currency translations due to the strength of the dollar.
Operating margins were 15.6%.
We incurred business restructuring costs of $14.6 million in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation and restructuring charges operating profit was up approximately 4% year-over-year.
As you may remember we communicated on our last quarterly call that we expected to see cost in coming quarters for restructuring in Subsea -- in our Subsea business.
Excluding these cost margins were 16.9% a sequential improvement of 170 basis points when excluding the comparable charge in the second quarter.
Our Subsea segment has yet to see a decline in activity and in fact absent the headwinds from the strength of the U.S dollar year-to-date Subsea revenue is actually up slightly from 2014.
The actions we’ve taken throughout this year including the significant actions in the third quarter will help us develop a stronger and leaner organization as we prepare for the decline in activity in 2016.
We have further restructuring within the organization -- we will have excuse me further restructuring within the organization in the fourth quarter.
As we enter 2016 our Subsea organization headcount will be more reflective of the anticipated decrease in activity due to delayed Subsea project inbound.
As we see 2016 activity we will make further assessments on our operating structure.
We anticipate an additional $6 million to $8 million of restructuring charges in the fourth quarter.
We continue to experience headwinds due to the strengthening U.S dollar looking at the first three quarters of 2015 the U.S dollar is significantly stronger against currencies we have the greatest exposure to the [indiscernible] the euro and the real.
Subsea revenue for the first nine months of 2015 include more than $400 million of unfavorable impact and operating profit includes more than $60 million of unfavorable impact due to the strong U.S dollar.
Absent of foreign currency translation total revenue year-to-date is slightly favorable year-over-year and operating profit year-to-date increased by approximately $45 million year-over-year.
Moving to our Surface Technology results.
Surface Technology reported operating profits for the third quarter of $37 million excluding impairment charges of $58 million primarily related to our Canadian business and restructuring charges of $2 million.
Excluding these costs operating margins were 10.3%.
These results represent continued strength in our non North America Surface Wellhead business.
As this is a later cycle business compared to North America we continue working off the healthy backlog and saw an increase in orders in the quarter.
However current pricing is beginning to reflect a more challenging environment.
As John stated we do not expect to see a recovery before next year in our North American businesses.
As discussed in the last earnings call we’re continuing to reduce our operating cost structure for North America while integrated -- integrating related products and services to deliver greater value to our customer.
We expect these actions to continue through the fourth quarter and will result in further headcount reductions with an expected cost of approximately $4 million to $6 million.
These actions will continue to reduce cost and improve our competitive position as the market recovers.
Segment backlog exiting the quarter stands at $495 million.
This continues to predominantly be reflective of our Surface Wellhead business outside of North America.
Moving to our final segment Energy Infrastructure revenue for the third quarter was $97 million.
Operating loss for the segment was $2 million.
As our profitable loading systems results were more than offset by continued slower activity in our measurement solutions business.
In the quarter we incurred restructuring cost of $1.7 million.
Given that lower activity levels are likely to continue we expect to incur additional restructuring charges of approximately $2 million in the fourth quarter due to further headcount reductions.
Let me turn to our corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $15 million.
We expect spending of approximately $17 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 including anticipated restructuring charges of approximately $3 million associated with headcount reductions.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $22 million.
For the fourth quarter we expect other revenue and expense to be approximately $15 million with the potential for further foreign currency fluctuation increasing this amount.
Our third quarter tax rate was 19.2% primarily due to a change in geographical earnings mix.
We expect our 2015 full-year tax rate to be between 24% and 26% which includes the U.S tax audit settlement discussed last quarter.
Capital spending this quarter was $50 million.
We expect capital spending in 2015 of approximately $250 million.
At the end of the third quarter we had net debt of $583 million.
It is comprised of $712 million of cash and $1.3 billion of debt.
We averaged 231 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
We repurchased 1.7 million shares of stock during the third quarter at an average cost of $33.95 per share.
In summary we expect total company restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of $15 million to $20 million.
Looking forward Energy Infrastructure revenue is now expected to be down more than 25% year-over-year with full-year margins in the mid single -digits negatively impacted by the poor results due to slower activity in our Measurement Solutions business.
We no longer expect to see a recovery in this business in the next few quarters given that activity corresponds to the North American market.
As indicated we continue to take actions to improve performance.
Surface Technologies revenue is expected to be down nearly 30% from last year due to reduced North American market activity.
Full-year operating margins will be approximately 10% excluding business restructuring and impairment charges as we will see continued pricing pressure.
Subsea revenue for the full-year should be approximately $4.6 billion as the strengthening of the U.S dollar continues to make great -- a greater negative impact.
Absent the headwinds we’re having our strongest year in Subsea revenues.
We continue to expect Subsea margins excluding restructuring charges of around 15% as we execute well in our backlog and cost reduction initiatives improve performance.
The current market conditions are presenting a number of challenges to our near-term results.
However the actions related to the strategies we are implementing across our businesses will result in long-term cost savings while preserving our capabilities to improve our execution as the market recovers.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from James West from Evercore.
James your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning James.
John as you think about ’16 you made the comment that Subsea orders could rival 2015 but you weren’t -- it didn’t sound totally confident on that.
When do you get that confidence that it could be similar or maybe even better? Is it just oil prices is it your customer budgets coming out in the next couple of months? Is it behind the scenes bidding activity that we’re not seeing I mean what -- what’s really the driver that would increase that confidence? The driver -- James the driver absolutely is the capital budgets from the operators which have not been set and then something else and that is when those budgets are set will these projects be included in that capital budget.
And this is kind of unprecedented for us.
In the past we had a rough idea of what the capital budgets were at this time and we knew whether or not projects would be included in that capital budget.
Now on the positive side we know that the number of named big projects that would make up Subsea inbound for the market that they exist and we also know that we made a lot of -- we meaning the industry has made a lot of progress in improving the economics.
What we don’t know is what the capital budgets are going to be and whether or not these projects are going to be included.
And that’s the uncertainty that we haven’t had in the past that we have today and I think once we see those capital budgets and we know whether or not these projects are included we will have a lot more confidence in 2016 Subsea inbound.
So around the next quarter’s release you probably should have a much better feel? I’d certainly hope so.
And then a follow-up on that with on Subsea -- with the restructuring that’s underway the significant restructuring that I think Doug is spearheading do you -- is that change your view of Subsea margins at all four next year or was that incorporated already in the guidance that you provided last quarter? Yes it’s incorporated.
I think when we talk about 2016 margins; we know that there is some natural headwinds we’re going to have more of the down cycle pricing in backlog starting to flow through the revenue stream in 2016.
We also know that our revenue because we’re going into the year with lower backlog that our revenue will be down about 10%.
Now those are two headwinds that will drive our margins down from what we’re experiencing this year and we’ve suggested that those margins would be a range of 11% to 13% biased towards a 13%.
We are assuming good execution to get to that 13% but we’re also assuming that some of the restructuring that we’re doing now and into early next year will help us offset those headwinds in terms of 2016 margins.
Okay got it.
Thanks John.
Yep.
And our next question comes from David Anderson from Barclays.
David your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
Hey John I just wanted to dig down a little bit more into those two feed study awards from Forsys.
Can you help us understand a little bit of these projects were they already on the drawing board but the economics just didn’t work out? And perhaps -- and is your expectation be able to take 30% of the cost out of the serve portion of these projects? David I think what we’re realizing -- I mentioned this in the last call that the interest by the operators in this different business model has exceeded our expectation.
One of the things that we found of particular interest was that those projects that had not been started in terms of concept design and had maybe been sort of shelved in terms of the project economics were the ones that the operator seem to have the most interest in applying the Forsys methodology and the two feed studies that we receive the awards for I think both fit into that category.
These were projects that may or may not have actually been able to go forward had it not been for this different approach.
I’d like Doug to comment more though specifically on overall the interest that we’ve had on the feed studies and these two awards that we’ve got a little bit more color on what was behind them.
Doug? Thank you John.
David you may recall last quarter we talked about a wide range of interest interest from partners as well as non-partners interest from independents as well as IOCs and NOCs.
And also that the approach we were finding had great applicability in both Greenfields as well as Brownfields.
So if you look at these two awards that we were -- that we’re discussing today it actually fits into that category.
So the first was for an independent operator who was a non-partner and this is a Greenfield approach.
This is actually at the concept stage.
So in this particular case the value proposition was by aligning and having early engagement making a commitment to partners and close collaboration that they would be able to take anywhere from 18 to 24 months of the first oil delivery.
So that was the real value proposition whilst at the same time recognizing and experiencing the savings that will come from a vendor based integrated frond-end engineering project.
So that was one example.
The other example was for an IOC a partner and in this case of Brownfield application if you will this is a field its going to tie back to an existing host.
In this particular example we got involved at the feed stage we’re involved with the feed stage I should say.
And yes this project I would say had some economical hurdles that needed to be overcome.
The customer recognize two things that by using this approach one they had the very real possibility of overcoming those economical hurdles which we certainly expect to be the result.
And in addition they saw this as a way to change the behavior within their own company by changing the approach to one early engagement.
Two committing to doing an integrated project a integrated delivery of that project or if you will an integrated EPC project.
And this is really a change of behavior and this was a catalyst for us receiving that award.
So two very different projects with different characteristics but again it demonstrates the very broad interest that we’re receiving in our integrated approach along with our partner Technip.
So John earlier I think last month or so you talked about the three potential projects you’re working on.
You thought it maybe get one of those feed studies you come out and you have two of those feed studies now.
How many more potential feed studies do you think are out there that you can announce say over the next couple of quarters? I mean are we talking this is sort of a growing list that you are -- this is sort of the beginning just sort of getting the tip of the iceberg? Or how should we think about the progress as we kind of monitor the progress of Forsys over the next several quarters? Well I mean absolutely David we believe that this is the beginning of an industry wide change in the approach to developing deepwater projects.
So we absolutely expect this to be the I think you call the tip of the ice berg.
We are very pleased that we’ve got two operators which suggest -- I mean two operators but it suggests in such a short period of time that not only are the potential savings and the impact on returns compelling but the openness and the willingness of as Doug described two different kinds of operators open to a different approach suggests that this could be the beginning of a shift and how the industry develops their fields.
We said earlier that there was a -- the interest exceeded our expectations from the full range of operators including even NOCs all geographies as Doug said Greenfield and Brownfield it suggests that the breadth of the interest and application of this different approach could apply to virtually all deepwater projects and we would expect -- I mean particularly success breeds success and I think these feed studies as we demonstrate that we can deliver these savings as they become EPCI contracts and we execute these savings that will create a momentum that would -- should increase -- should only increase the number of projects that are using this approach going forward.
Great.
I appreciate the color John and Doug.
And our next question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Ole your line is open.
Congrats on the Forsys feed studies as well as your break into the boosting market.
Yes thanks Ole.
When it comes to this -- again to go back to the two studies that you won it sounds like the first one is you’re able to fast track while the second one you might be able to use some more or more specific or tend [ph] to the designs around some very more specific technologies and products.
Could you elaborate a little bit on to what extent the cost savings are achieved by streamlining the execution versus using more specific technologies that you can center the designs around? Ole thank you for the question.
Absolutely it’s a combination of both the ability to do the integrated planning and execution and the cost savings associated with that as well as the introduction of different technologies.
But most importantly it’s removing components actual hardware from the Subsea field design by working together early with the service provider with Technip to be able to look at ways that we can streamline the interfaces between the umbilical risers and flow lines in our traditional Subsea production system.
Thus physically removing and permanently lowering the costs of Subsea field development and that’s really where the -- what the objective is.
Now on top of that absolutely we’re going to see benefits and the benefits we’re going to come from the integrated planning and execution better delivery improved execution as John has mentioned many times the execution in Subsea projects has been not great over a long period of time for our industry and this is a way for us to address that as well.
The introduction of new technology will come over time.
Just to remind everyone the actual relationship is just slightly over 120 days old and we continue -- we do have a robust plan for the development of new technology but we’re seeing right now is actual savings from the physical removal of interfaces or streamlining of interfaces and then the streamlining of the actual installation of the Subsea field.
And of the savings the same -- do you think the potential for savings are they the same in both of these two different categories? Most definitely Ole.
I mean and again the earlier the engagement the greater the opportunity set.
So you could say if you’re engaged with the concept stage you may actually be able to influence the actual savings even greater than if you’re involved later in the front-end engineering process.
So -- but we would expect similar savings for both of these projects yes.
And our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Bill your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a couple questions on Subsea orders.
And John so you prophesied that at this stage notwithstanding that the visibility is somewhat limited you feel by 2016 would be equivalent to ’15.
And I’m just curious as to the components of that.
It seemed like if I back into it that your onesie and twosie baseline for the third quarter was running at about $650 million if you assume that for 2016 that’s $2.6 million and then you are assuming something close to like $1 billion in major projects in ’16 assuming the fourth quarter of this year comes in at close to what you did in the third.
And so when you get to that math I’m just curious about the major project composition we’ve been talking about greater Western Flank here for a while talking about Cobalt Cameia we’ve been talking about Mad Dog phase 2.
The one that’s the biggest one which seems to be slipping at least based upon the fact that you’re not upsized relative to 2015 in Bonga South West.
So can you comment about that formulation and some of those projects please? Sure Bill.
The components of the -- the potential components of the 2016 Subsea inbound for us would be lets start with service.
Services held up at about a run rate of $1.5 billion.
I think in 2016 the installation portion of that will hold up.
We think some of the -- maybe discretionary services because of CapEx cut backs will face some headwinds.
So we might come under our past run rate but figure a $1 billion plus $1.5 billion -- something under $1.5 billion could be our Subsea service number potentially.
Okay.
On the small onesie twosies the third quarter number that you referenced is too high.
Okay.
We had fairly -- there in the second -- we’re watching the onesie twosies very closely because we think that the Gulf of Mexico market will portfolio hold better in this downturn than any of the other markets and we have a very strong position.
In Q1 the small order is strictly coming out of the Gulf of Mexico were very very light.
In the second quarter they were very strong.
In the third quarter they were not strong.
They weren’t as light as the first quarter but they were close to it.
So we think that the onesies twosies are demonstrating a kind of lumpy characteristic that’s becoming a little hard to project.
But in the 2016 we’d expect -- I mean it’s not going to go zero it’s not going to look like Q1 of 2015 but probably continue to look like an average of 2015.
So that would make up a number for 2016 and then we would have to win as we did in 2015 several major awards.
And this is where I showed my caution because not knowing capital budgets not knowing whether or not these major projects will be included in the 2016 capital budget it’s hard to predict.
But assuming that they would make the cut and be included in those capital budgets we would need a couple of two or three; I don’t want to say exactly depending on which ones and how large.
But we would need several major Subsea awards.
Its hard to imagine getting to an equivalent 2015 Subsea inbound without a major Africa project.
So those would have to come -- those would have to come in and that’s how we get to the components of 2016 Subsea inbound that’s on par with 2015.
The big question of whether or not are these big projects going to be included in the capital budgets; we won't know that till later.
So specifically with regard to Bonga South West because that's the biggest project out there close to 50 trees.
We were hoping for earlier this year that possibly that was a 2016 event.
How do we feel about that just given the fact that Shell has a lot to digest with BG.
Oil prices aren't exactly accommodating? What will be the harm in sort of deferring that for another year or what's your thought process on that right now? I don’t have any really insights on Shell but I think you just look at the facts this is a huge project.
So it’s going to comer a lot more scrutiny and it’s subject to more delays.
The larger they are it’s a national oil company project that has a tendency to delay because you have another partner that has to -- you have to reach approval and then it’s a Nigerian project.
So with the uncertainty in Nigeria I think that puts a lot of question marks around Bonga.
There are other projects though and Bill you know them all.
I mean Mad Dog Greater Western Flank Anadarko’s Golfinho project ENI in East Africa.
You mentioned Cobalt Chevron has projects.
There is a list of projects that support assuming they all make the cut on the capital budgets that support the potential inbound that I referenced.
But they’d have to come through.
You’re right; they would have to come through in order to have 2016 look like 2015.
And our next question comes from Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Bill your line is open.
Thanks.
I guess just one clarification on that prior question.
So John it sounds like to me or maybe just to specify do we not expect to see a name plate award here in fourth quarter additionally? That’s right Bill.
I mean we’re running out a year now we were looking at a couple of major Subsea awards in order to hit our target of three plus billion we got those.
We’ve only got a couple of months left.
I -- and just given while people are talking about winding down the year I just -- I wouldn’t include that on my forecast because we’re running of out of year.
And so you’re right given where we are year-to-date Subsea services hold up the onesies twosies which I already mentioned are kind of lumpy they show up we get to three plus billion for the year.
We’re not expecting a major award and just given the timing I think that’s probably the right way to look at it.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And I guess just one question on Subsea margin and Maryann I guess for you the 17% roughly in 3Q I think exceeded people’s expectations and given the guide for still 50% average would suggest you’re probably looking sequentially something greater than 200 basis point decline in margins in Subsea in 4Q.
I guess I would have thought that maybe they’ve been a little bit stickier here just given the cost cutting initiatives and still some of the benefits of the higher price backlog the mix of more aftermarket.
Can you talk a little bit about that? Progression was there something unusual in 3Q driving a higher Subsea margin and it would be helpful? Yes sure Bill.
So I think in general you’re absolutely right.
There’s a lot of stickiness to all of the cost reductions that are coming through.
We expect to continue to see that nothing abnormal between three and four a little bit of timing.
The thing to think about in four -- and you’re right we are expecting to see a sequential decline in four.
One of the biggest drivers is Light Well intervention.
As you know normally in the first quarter of every year we see Light Well intervention flowing.
In the fourth quarter we’re actually going to see all three vessels that operate in the North Sea come off on contract.
So that’s a part of it.
A little bit of timing in the way that we executed our projects and then lastly we had slightly higher R&amp;D spending in the fourth quarter than we had in the third quarter.
So yes stickiness to all of the good execution we have really just a little bit of timing between three and four and then again we’re seeing an early slowing if you will or contract removal on the Light Well intervention.
And our next question is from Byron Pope from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Byron your line is open.
Good morning.
John in the context of winning your first Subsea pump award with Shell for BC-10 and you have another between separation and boosting you’ve got another half dozen of those projects.
Could you just frame for us at a higher level how you see the Subsea processing opportunity over the next 18 24 months boosting versus separation opportunities? Right Byron I think we -- in the near-term the next year or so we’ve got to put Subsea processing projects in the pace of which they’re awarded and pursued in the context of a pull back on capital spending on operators redirecting their capital spending towards production certain projects that are in the queue that for various strategic reasons they want to proceed with all in the context of a smaller capital budget.
It doesn’t mean that Subsea processing technology in these projects aren’t very very compelling financially to the operators they are.
But I think we should assume that they’re going to go a little bit on the backburner for the next year because of the capital constraints.
There are several projects that are out there.
Now that our pump is -- we’ve broken the ice in terms of our first award.
We’re going to be where we know that we’re qualified with a number of operators.
We’re going to be pursuing other pump projects.
But I think there might be a temporary slowing in the pace of Subsea projects in the next year or so just because of the prioritization of projects in the capital budgets.
But as you can appreciate we are very encouraged that we broke through getting our pump qualified last year now we’ve broken through getting our first award.
We’re going to -- we’re now competing in the processing market and that market will come.
Absolutely it will come the economics are very compelling.
I just think that the pressure on capital budgets will have an impact on the near-term pace of projects that go forward in processing.
Okay.
And then just a quick question on Surface Technologies its seems as though Middle East activity has been an island of strength with regard to activity levels and would it be fair to assume that that’s been the source of resiliency with regard to your International Surface Wellheads business this year and would you expect that business to be relatively stable in that region of the world again as you move into next year? Byron you’re right.
Surface International has been a source of resiliency for us in our Surface business but we see that we could be approaching an inflection point.
I mean to think that our Surface International business would be insulated from the entire global deterioration in the market really doesn’t make sense and we think starting next year the next couple of months or so we’ll start to see our Surface International business which has help up so well over the last year and a half come under fire particularly in the area of pricing.
And I think that is a change from what we’ve spelled out in the past.
We now see the potential of real weakness -- beginning of weakness I should say as opposed to this business that has held up so well over the last year and a half.
So we think we’re going to start to see the effects of the global deterioration in the oil and gas market service sector start to affect really for the first time in a year our Surface International business.
And our next question comes from Scott Gruber from Citigroup.
Scott your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Turning back to the feed study awards which are its truly great news.
John you mentioned a broader industry wide change undertake -- underway here just in terms of why projects engineered and executed offshore and you specifically highlighted interest from NOCs.
But in your opinion are the NOCs operating offshore are they really ready at this point to change the way they interact with their vendors and their contracting processes? Do they need to see the benefits that IOCs and in independence reap before shifting? Actually Scott we -- when we first announced the joint venture and we began engaging with all our clients on the benefits.
Quite frankly we were surprised by the interest by the national oil companies.
They operate under production sharing contract agreements which require a common tender document the approach is fixed its standard.
Multiple contractors bid the projects that’s built into production sharing contract process.
And we really didn’t expect for any serious interest from the NOCs so we were surprised when the NOCs and not just one but multiple NOCs said no don’t rule us out we’re interested.
And they want to improve their economics as well.
They saw the compelling nature of this different business model.
Now when challenged -- when challenged they said yes you’re right we have production sharing contract processes that require tendering.
But there are some options that we are to consider like a design competition upfront so that we meet our tendering requirements but could still apply this new business model.
I think you’re right -- for the NOCs to go from interest to actually implementation as opposed to the two clients that Doug discussed in the awards its going to come later because they have -- they have natural hurdles they have to overcome and I’m sure they’re going to want to see the success of this different business model before they proceed.
But I think we should take it as an important sign that the industry is prepared to accept different business models even those organizations that have natural barriers to overcome.
So I just think we should be encouraged but probably shouldn’t assume that NOC is going to be the first one out in terms of experimenting with this new model.
And was Petrobras one of those that expressed interest initially in the strategy? Yes they were.
And our next question comes from James Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
James your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on the first pump.
And adding Chevron to the lower tertiary study is a coup so good job.
Thanks Jim.
You’re still cutting people in Surface and in infrastructure and you talk about how you’re sizing the business in Subsea.
You talk about how we could be at an inflection point in pricing in International Surface.
Maryann mentioned that on a dollar adjusted basis this quarter was record up from last year.
We seem to kind of be at a pinnacle rolling over in a lot of ways and trying to figure out when the bottom is going to be.
And I know you and Ole talked a lot about kind of my question really is how long could this last if big projects aren’t going to be in the oil companies budgets for next year and therefore to adapt right and how long could this last John? I mean I’m -- nobody is going to zero I got that.
But how long could we scrape along the bottom of this bathtub in your businesses? Now let me think about that question … I know we all have to be optimistic.
Yes.
I know we all have to be optimistic but you’re scaling your business for something smaller than it is today so you’ve got some idea where its going? Right.
Jim when we talk to our partners there’s not a single partner who doesn’t say they remain completely committed to deepwater.
Nobody is abandoning it nobody is going anywhere else.
The conversation is almost a 100% around how can we improve the economics so we can proceed to develop our extensive deepwater portfolio.
Just to give you some color Doug and I were with an operator a couple of weeks ago and they said and I opposed that question and they said John our exploration success in deepwater is un-paralleled it’s a strength of our company.
Our ability to successfully develop deepwater projects is one of the best in the industry.
Why would we abandon that strength? What we need to do is to take our strengths with your help improve the economics and get on with developing our deepwater portfolio.
So there’s no abandonment of deepwater … No I don’t think its abandonment but we could not have a date for a couple of years.
Except the pace where the encouraging thing Jim is that they’re moving quickly much more quickly than I think you or I would have thought to improve the economics.
How do you expand -- explain that a number of major products now all won by us were awarded in 2015 despite the capital constraints and the downturn in the industry because these projects were successfully reworked to improve their returns.
I’m confident that this will only accelerate the success in improving economics will only accelerate in the year to come.
We should be encouraged by the early adoption of these new business models.
Nobody thought that in just over 100 days two companies would decide to turn upside down their historic business models for the purpose of improving economics.
So this is going to gain momentum and to the extent that the capital budgets which were already directed away from exploration to production start to incorporate these major projects.
So you’re right how long -- well I don’t think every operator understands that … I don’t disagree with you John.
Yes go ahead.
I don’t disagree with you on any point.
Its just that the disconnect I have seen between what investors think is quick and what happens especially in deepwater with IOCs and what -- and the industry is called quick is often a disconnect.
And I just -- my concern is is like ordering deepwater rigs we’re not going to do it for a couple of years or 10 while your guys can stay committed to deepwater.
When do they get the budgets to develop is the issue.
And my concern is they -- they may not be in this year’s budget or next year’s budget or the next year’s budget.
What you’re doing is great and right and it will work but that the rate of adoption is my biggest concern.
Yes and I think that’s our concern as well but again I think that’s why we’re so encouraged that this adoption is faster than anybody that you pointed anybody has ever seen in this industry and that gives us some encouragement.
Now what are we doing in responses because we can't -- not under our control how fast they adopt this? We’re trying to make sure that we can act quickly to restructure our business during this uncertain period of time without jeopardizing our ability to execute and succeed when the market eventually comes back and so far based on the numbers we’ve seen and the base load that we get from our partners that we can achieve this.
But you’re right I mean there’s uncertainty and in terms of the level of activity and we’re watching that carefully.
Right now we think we’ve been able to balance the necessary restructuring yet keeping our core capability for when the recovery comes.
And our next question comes from Mark Brown from Seaport Global Securities.
Mark your line is open.
Thank you.
I wanted to just get any kind of update on Petrobras with you and many of your competitors have backlogged associated with the company and to what extent you expect to see a risk of impairment or slowdown in the deliveries from either you or the industry in general? Right you recalled two and half years ago we received one of the largest Petrobras award for Pre-Salt Christmas Trees and Pre-Salt Manifolds that was four years requirement.
We got the bulk of the manifold awards and very large tree awards at that time.
That backlog represents 17% of the company’s entire backlog.
There has been clearly pressure by Petrobras in some cases cancellation although we’ve seen no cancellation; instead we’ve seen some rescheduling of that four year requirement of Petrobras as it was in our backlog that actually worked to our favor.
We were able to avoid some expansion cost and spread out the deliveries over a period that takes us through mid 2019 and we think that backlog will stay intact.
Again lots of pressure from Petrobras but we think it will stay intact.
The margins have held up.
There’s a lot of pricing pressure.
But largely we think that the margins will be able to hold up.
And as a result we see no risk of any type of impairment.
We obviously are going through a major restructuring to resize ourselves.
But we think we can use that Petrobras backlog to get us well into 2019.
Now beyond that we’re obviously anticipating the market starts to improve in Brazil but that’s the story for us.
We benefited by the large awards we won almost three years ago and we can stretch those out into 2019 and size our organization accordingly.
All right.
Well thank you and just as a follow-up on a different topic obviously the big merger that was announced recently affecting the Subsea space was wondering if that changes you strategy in any way or if you think that there might be additional consolidation or combinations in the overall Subsea space going forward? I’m assuming you’re referring to the Schlumberger acquisition of Cameron.
They have had a joint venture -- a Subsea joint venture between Cameron and Schlumberger for almost three years.
The acquisition by Schlumberger shouldn’t directly affect that joint venture.
One Subsea which we’ve been competing against for three years so there’s not a significant change in that structure with regard to Subsea.
Our response to that has been to focus on our alliance with Technip and our joint venture and with Forsys Subsea and obviously we’re encouraged by the results that we had in those last quarter as a result of that that focus.
In terms of consolidations in the industry I really couldn’t speak to that during the downturn its not in common for industries to consolidate and I don’t think our industry will be any different.
Our next question comes from Robin Shoemaker from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Robin your line is open.
Thank you.
John I was wondering if you could shed any light on this year’s breakdown between in Subsea between backlog conversion to revenue customer support and book-and-turn.
It looks to me like backlog conversion this year is around 50% level but maybe I’m wrong on that comparable to last year and its usually a little higher as backlog declines.
Robin you’re right.
The 50% conversion rate is about right.
Historically we’ve had a little higher number but because we’ve got these large projects particularly Petrobras those conversion number is a little bit lower but 50% is a good number.
Subsea service’s is a book-and-turn business and we’ve said that’s about a $1.5 billion of the revenue.
So you take the conversion rate of our backlog and you know we went into almost record backlog in 2015 a 50% plus the Subsea services book-and-turn and then the smaller orders book-and-turn which is probably the smallest piece of all three of those.
You get the revenue recognition of 2015 of $4.6 billion.
$4.6 billion right? Okay -- so on another topic I wanted to ask you about the fluid control business and whether you observe what's happening there similar to previous downturns where the purchases dry up very substantially but sort of create a deficit of inventory that leads to sort of like a coiled spring when the market does recover.
But in terms of pump sales or treating our in sales are we at the very very low levels we’ve seen before and working down inventories rapidly? Robin absolutely the fluid control business is following that’s the same pattern as you just described.
The challenge is as we see further reductions in activity in North America it just adds to the idle capacity which adds to the cannibalization that’s going on versus that coiled spring releasing.
So the amount of energy being stored in the spring is increasing but the release of that is further delayed because of the continued deterioration of the North American market.
Our next question comes from Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo Securities.
Jud your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I had a -- just a follow-up question on your margins for Subsea’s next year in reference to the guidance between 11% and 13%.
John you mentioned your goal and confidence in getting something towards the higher end of that range.
I'm just curious if you were come in at the low end what are the variables to think about that would cause you to come in at the lower end of that range? Would it be lower utilization on the well intervention? Would it be weaker Subsea services? Or how should we think about the difference between the high and the low end of that range? I think you’ve got it Jud I mean execution is always a variable.
We’re very very pleased with the process we made on execution.
So we don’t anticipate anything but we managed a lot of projects.
So execution would take us to the low end.
You’re absolutely right on the services side we had headwinds on services which is a book-and-turn business its not in backlog so that would affect it.
And then in pricing we’re under tremendous amount of pricing pressure including some of our service contracts.
So even though generally our pricing and backlog at least historically in downturns has stayed intact.
It’s under a lot of pressure and so I think there could be some pricing concessions particularly on the service side service activity and execution could all lead us to the lower end of the range.
Now again as you heard my remarks I think we’re bias towards the high end because we’ve made such good progress in execution.
We fully expect that to continue and we’re focused on the continually into next year.
And we think with our good execution performance we’re in a position to push back on some of the price concessions because of our execution performance for the operator.
So that’s where to -- I think you’re on the right track that’s what would drive us to the low end.
Okay.
And then just one clarification.
Did you say the potential for price concession is for orders that are already in backlog? No I was referring to service rates.
So service is a book-and-turn business.
We have negotiated rates.
We have come under a lot of pressure to renegotiate those rates and that's why that would affect margins in 2016 because it’s a book-and-turn business Mr.
Davis do you have any closing remarks? This concludes our third quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 PM Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our fourth quarter 2015 conference call on February 17 at 9:00 AM Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Operator you may end the call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Erica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the FMC Technologies' Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Matthew Seinsheimer you may begin your conference.
Good morning and welcome to FMC Technologies' fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our news release and financial statements issued yesterday can be found on our website.
I'd like to caution you with respect to any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Although these forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations beliefs and assumptions regarding future developments and business conditions they are subject to certain risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results are described in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to John Gremp FMC Technologies' Chairman and CEO.
Good morning.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call today is Maryann Mannen our Chief Financial Officer and Doug Pferdehirt our President and Chief Operating Officer who is joining us from another location.
I'll focus my comments today on 2015 performance and our market outlook for the current year.
Maryann will provide specifics on our quarterly and full-year financial performance as well as our financial outlook for 2016.
We'll then open up the call for your questions.
In 2015 global upstream spending declined approximately 25% as a result of falling commodity prices.
North America markets were impacted greater the most experiencing the steepest activity decline seen in nearly three decades.
Clearly this was a very challenging year for the energy industry.
FMC Technologies entered the downturn with solid operational momentum and we responded early with aggressive restructuring actions across all of our businesses.
This wasn't just a reaction to declining activity levels it was a fundamental change in the way we manage our business aimed at providing meaningful and sustainable cost savings.
Our efforts focused on driving better execution product and process standardization innovative technology and integrated business models.
These are important steps that we believe will put the company in an even stronger competitive position.
In 2015 we were able to deliver on several key metrics.
In Subsea Technologies margins increased for a fourth consecutive year.
For the full year excluding all restructuring charges we achieved Subsea margins of 15.1%.
The strong results were driven by the strength of our backlog and the continued trend of solid execution.
We also finished the year with $3.1 billion of inbound orders in our Subsea Technologies segment achieving our full-year target of at least $3 billion.
For the quarter our Subsea inbound orders totaled $490 million which included the recently announced award for the Woodside Greater Western Flank Phase 2 Project on the North West Shelf of Australia.
This was an important award from a longstanding alliance partner with the leverage expected to extend through 2018.
As we look forward operators are now not only challenged to improve project economics but the sharp decline in oil prices is limiting their capital spending plans.
Customer priorities continue to evolve but the message is clear.
Operators are determined to live within their cash flows putting the burden of balancing budgets on capital spending.
Although it's unlikely that today's commodity prices reflect the assumptions used for long-term project economics low oil prices do impact current cash flow.
The increasing level of commodity price volatility creates even more uncertainty around these cash flows.
And even though project economics are improving the pace of large-scale developments would be driven by operator cash flow and this is different than past cycles.
But even in this more challenging environment we have been successful in working with our customers to bring down costs and make projects economic.
Our initiatives are working.
The award for the Woodside Greater Western Flank Phase 2 Project is a great example of this success.
With this project we adopted the same standard that had been used on a previous development and significantly reduced the project management and engineering hours.
We also used existing tools to install and test the equipment.
By using standard FMC specifications we were able to reduce inspection points by more than 50%.
And finally we linked out the documentation process for additional savings.
Much of this success came from the operator's willingness to accept the vendor-based approach versus the traditional client-specific requirements.
As we think about our Subsea order potential for 2016 I want to talk about the major components that make up our Subsea inbound – services small projects and large projects.
Broadly speaking we expect Subsea service orders to remain fairly resilient with only modest declines driven by the level of installation work.
We expect a somewhat lower level of order activity for smaller projects in 2016.
These projects are not immune to spending reductions but they typically have lower cash outlays and can provide operators with a relatively quick payback.
Now forecasting order levels for larger projects is a challenge in the current environment.
There are a number of large projects that we're tracking and we do see the potential for some of these projects to be awarded in the current year.
However we don't foresee any $0.5 billion to $1 billion mega projects being awarded this year.
And that will make it difficult for us to match the level of Subsea orders that we received in 2015.
Despite the Subsea order uncertainty we as a company remain focused on our initiatives to improve deepwater project economics.
We also believe that we can do even more with our integrated business models.
And that's what we're doing with our Forsys Subsea joint venture with Technip.
Earlier this week the joint venture announced the award of another integrated FEED contract this one from Statoil for the development of their Trestakk field.
We're encouraged by Statoil's willingness to adopt a different business model.
The Forsys Subsea approach is gaining traction and Trestakk is an important example of that progress.
Our Subsea business cost structure we believe has the potential for significant savings.
Specifically we're focused on optimizing our global manufacturing operations standardizing our processes and product offerings and further integrating our global supply chain.
These actions will provide sustainable structural benefits that will ensure that we retain if not improve our cost advantage.
At the same time we will preserve our core engineering and project management capabilities.
Further we'll continue to invest in new technologies and expand our customer relationships.
Collectively these actions will strengthen our Subsea business and ensure that we're prepared for an eventual market recovery.
Let me now turn to our Surface Technologies segment.
Revenues for the quarter were down 12% sequentially.
However once we adjust for all charges we closed out the quarter with an adjusted margin just above 10% despite the severe activity declines posted throughout North America in 2015.
Activity levels for international Surface Wellhead business held up sequentially but we're seeing the impact of pricing pressure as a result of the deteriorating global market.
We expect activity levels outside of North America to remain resilient in 2016.
We've moved aggressively to streamline our North America business and our actions have been focused on more than just responding to the lower activity levels.
We're approaching this market in a fundamentally different way.
We've restructured our management organization consolidated our service lines and integrated our products and service offering.
These actions will create greater efficiencies and drive a better operational performance.
And they will further improve our position in the North America onshore market.
This approach has been a key driver in expanding our customer base and resulting in new contract awards.
Let me end with two main points.
First deepwater operators are behaving differently in this current cycle.
Cash flow and uncertainty are affecting near-term decisions.
But we are making an impact on deepwater project economics.
We're driving cost lower and reducing operator risk through product standardization new technologies and new business models.
The Woodside Greater Western Flank and Statoil Trestakk projects are two tangible examples of our success.
Second we are intensely focused on what we can control taking aggressive actions across the entire company.
Most importantly our restructuring activities go beyond workforce and facility reductions.
We're using the downturn as a catalyst to fundamentally change the way we manage our organization so that we can sustainably deliver our products and services in effective and cost-efficient manner regardless of the market conditions.
Maryann will now take you through the financial details in the quarter and for the full year and provide a more detailed explanation of our 2016 expectations.
Thanks John.
Our fourth quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.46 when excluding certain charges of $73 million or $0.22 per diluted share incurred in the quarter.
As we indicated last year we took further restructuring actions in the fourth quarter.
Included in our reported results our pre-tax charges of $31 million for restructuring actions or $0.10 per diluted share.
Also included in the quarterly results our pre-tax inventory adjustments of $42 million due to the prolonged lower activity levels in North America.
The inventory write-downs include a $36 million charge in our Surface Technologies segment.
The remaining $6 million was recorded in our Energy Infrastructure segment.
These inventory adjustments reduced our reported earnings by $0.12 per diluted share.
We have provided a schedule in our press release issued last evening to show the quarterly and full-year impact of these costs incurred.
Looking at the full year we undertook a significant amount of restructuring in response to the decline in market activity in North America as well as the forecast reductions for 2016 in our Subsea business.
The combined charges in 2015 for restructuring and other severance as well as impairments totaled $132 million before tax.
In the Surface Technologies segment we incurred $74 million of charges for restructuring our facilities impairment of assets and head count reductions.
We expect these actions to have benefit in 2016 as we operate on a lower cost base and in a lower rig count environment.
In our Subsea Technologies segment we incurred $50 million of charges primarily for head count reduction taken in the second half of the year.
Activity levels remained strong in this segment through the first three quarters of 2015.
Energy Infrastructure incurred $8 million for restructuring.
This occurred mainly in the measurement solutions business where the low North American activity levels reduced market opportunities.
Collectively these actions will further strengthen our operating performance as we managed through the soft market conditions we expect will continue throughout 2016 both in North America as well as in our Subsea business.
When adjusting for all structuring and impairment costs including inventory write-downs of $49 million full-year EPS was $2.27 for 2015.
Moving to our operating segments.
Subsea Technologies revenue in the quarter was $1 billion.
Quarter-over-quarter revenue comparisons were negatively impacted by $134 million of foreign currency translation lower Subsea Services activity primarily intervention services as well as lower project activity contributed to the quarter-over-quarter result.
Subsea Technologies operating profit was $132 million in the quarter excluding restructuring and other severance and impairment charges of $25 million.
Quarter-over-quarter profit comparisons were negatively impacted by $15 million of foreign currency translations due to the strong U.S.
dollar.
Operating margins in the quarter were 12.9% excluding restructuring and other severance and impairment charges.
Excluding all charges and the impact of foreign currency translation operating profit was down approximately 29% quarter-over-quarter.
The decline was driven primarily by the lower revenues reduced well intervention activities in the North Sea and higher research and development expense due to the timing of expenditures.
We experienced headwinds from the strengthening U.S.
dollar throughout the year.
For the full year Subsea revenue included $540 million of unfavorable impact and operating profit included $77 million of unfavorable impact due to the strong U.S.
dollar.
Full-year Subsea margins excluding restructuring and impairment charges were 15.1% consistent with our estimates throughout the year as our project execution continued to support solid operating margins.
We began significant head count reductions in the second half of 2015 as project volumes began to weaken.
We expect to take further actions in the first quarter of this year.
These actions and continued strong operational performance will support us as our Subsea volumes decline from 2015 levels.
Segment backlog exiting this quarter was $3.8 billion.
This compares to prior-year backlog of $5.8 billion.
Some of this backlog has a longer delivery horizon and will be recognized over the next three years.
Moving to our Surface Technologies results Surface Technologies reported an operating loss for the fourth quarter of $7 million including restructuring and other severance impairment charges of $3 million.
When excluding the severance restructuring and impairment charges as well as the inventory adjustments we posted operating profits of $32 million and an operating margin of 10.1% in the quarter.
As was mentioned earlier we had significant inventory adjustments that impacted our Surface Technologies segment.
During the quarter we took a write-down of $36 million for inventory.
Most of the write-down was related to our North American businesses where sharp activity declines drove significant reductions to future demand estimates for the region.
However the underlying results represent the continued decline in activity in our North American business.
Operational profit performance was supported by the benefit of the restructuring efforts made throughout the year.
In some international regions though activity levels have proven to be more resilient.
However as we noted last quarter our operating results now reflect pricing challenges across all major geographies including our Surface Wellhead business outside North America.
We have taken significant restructuring actions in our Surface Technologies business.
These actions focused both on reducing our operating cost structure in North America and restructuring the business model to deliver an integrated product offering intended to bring greater value to our customers.
On a full year basis our operating margins were 11.8% when excluding restructuring impairment and inventory charges reflecting the benefit of restructuring activities taken earlier in the year.
While we expect the weak activity levels in North America to persist throughout 2016 these actions will further improve our operating competitiveness through our significant workforce reductions and implementation of our integrated product offering.
Segment backlog stands at $433 million.
This continues to predominantly be reflective of our Surface Wellhead business outside of North America.
Moving to Energy Infrastructure.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $96 million.
The segment reported operating losses of $3 million including $4 million of restructuring and other severance charges.
Additionally we incurred charges of $6 million in the quarter for the write-down of inventory of our measurement solutions business due to lack of demand from weak activity.
Segment results continue to be negatively impacted by the sharp activity decline in the North America market.
Let's turn to corporate items.
Corporate expense in the quarter was $15 million.
Other revenue and expense net reflects expense of $23 million.
The majority of expense relates to foreign currency losses primarily associated with the currency devaluation of the Angolan Kwanza.
Our fourth quarter tax rate was negative 8.7% due in part to a favorable shift in geographic earnings mix and the reinstatement of a research and development tax credit enacted in late-December.
Our full-year tax rate was 21.4% due in part to the lower mix of earnings subject to U.S.
tax.
Capital spending this quarter was $40 million; this brings our spending in 2015 to $251 million.
We generated solid cash flow from operations of $932 million.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had net debt of $240 million.
It is comprised of $916 million of cash and $1.2 billion of debt.
We averaged 230 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter.
We repurchased 1.3 million shares of stock during the fourth quarter at an average cost of $31.23 per share.
For the full year we repurchased a total of 5.3 million shares for a total cost of $190.4 million.
Let me next discuss our outlook for 2016.
We expect Energy Infrastructure revenue to be down by approximately 5% year-over-year.
Revenues will continue to be negatively impacted by the weak North American market and our measurement solutions business.
Therefore we do not expect a recovery in this business this year.
However we do expect the benefits from prior-year restructuring to favorably impact segment profitability in 2016.
We expect full-year margins in the high-single digits.
Given the recent rig count decline Surface Technologies revenue is now expected to be down 15% to 20% from 2015 due to uncertain North American market activity.
We are not assuming a recovery from current rig count levels.
Full-year operating margins are targeted at high-single digits excluding any restructuring charges that may be necessary.
While we will benefit from the restructuring actions taken in 2015 and those forthcoming in 2016 pricing pressure in both our North America and international business provides significant headwinds at these activity levels.
Subsea revenue for the full year in 2016 should be approximately $3.6 billion.
We expect revenue from our Subsea backlog of approximately $2.2 billion.
For our Subsea Services business we expect revenues of approximately $1.3 billion down modestly from 2015.
Startups of certain services are expected in April of this year with lower utilization expected than prior years.
Given the lower visibility for inbound as John has discussed we are assuming a minimal amount of revenue from current year inbound.
This would therefore be a source of upside to our 2016 revenues if inbound were stronger.
We continue to expect Subsea margins in the range of 11% to 13% excluding any restructuring charges that are likely in 2016.
Further cost reductions will help offset the expected revenue decline.
When combined with continued strong execution on our backlog we see the potential to deliver margin above the midpoint of the guidance range.
I'll now provide you with guidance on our corporate items.
In 2016 we expect corporate expense to be approximately $15 million to $16 million per quarter.
We expect other revenue and expense to be an expense of approximately $13 million to $14 million per quarter with the potential for further foreign currency fluctuations.
We expect our 2016 full-year tax rate to be between 23% and 25%.
Our earnings subject to U.S.
income tax are expected to be lower in 2016.
We expect capital spending for the year of approximately $180 million.
This represents a 28% reduction from 2015.
This spending does not include any contingent capital that may be needed to respond to a contract award.
We do anticipate further restructuring will be necessary as market activity provides better clarity on the impact on future periods.
We will continue to provide guidance as we estimate the cost and benefits of these actions.
Let me now close with the following comments.
Given the latest move down in the U.S.
rig count our Surface Technologies segment performance has become more difficult to forecast.
We are responding with additional head count reductions as well as further facility consolidations and closures.
Our efforts in the last year to provide an integrated service offering should support our growth when this market recovers.
In Subsea we have a solid backlog to deliver the 2016 estimates provided albeit lower than in previous years our head count reduction should partially offset the revenue decline forecast in 2016 and our project execution should allow us to deliver solid operating performance supporting operating margin guidance.
As 2016 Subsea inbound develops we are prepared to take further actions where needed.
We are working to optimize our global footprint to deliver sustainable superior performance now and when the deepwater and North America markets recover.
While managing the company through extreme market uncertainty present certain challenges we remain focused on preserving and further developing our technical capabilities and customer relationships and maintaining our market leadership.
Operator you may now open up the call for questions.
Your first comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So Maryann I was curious to start here.
Thanks for the precise color here with regard to guidance on Subsea.
You provided us revenue out of backlog guidance for 2016 and service revenue guidance.
What were those in 2015? What was revenue out of that? What was the conversion ratio and what was the service component in 2015? Yeah.
Thanks Bill.
So our service number as I mentioned services down just slightly.
So our service inbound and service revenues are essentially the same.
Our service revenue just approached about $1.5 billion.
We had some small revenue recognition from what we call inbound our book-and-turn and the balance would've been from backlog.
That backlog conversion ratio was about in the range of 60% for this year.
Okay.
And so we're implying with your guidance here that we're assuming something a little bit less than that for 2016 with regard to the backlog conversion ratio? That's correct.
Okay.
And then with regard to your margin guidance walk us through what would be the drivers for the low end of that guidance and the high end of that guidance.
Bill this is John.
So let's talk about where we last were.
We had a Subsea margin for 2016 range of 11% to 13%.
Previously about four months ago on earnings call I said there was a bias towards the high end.
Yes.
We believe that that margin range 11% to 13% is still valid but the bias towards the high end is not.
Why? Because over the last four months we've seen a deterioration obviously in oil prices in the market.
It's going to to some degree affect revenue decline in 2016 more so than we saw four months ago and despite as Maryann mentioned our efforts to restructure and reduce cost that's going to put some margin pressure.
Further as you know the whole industry has been faced over the last couple of months of even more intense pricing pressure.
And so the combination of those two things takes us all to that earlier comment about being in the high end of that 11% to 13% range.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you and thanks John.
With the 11% to 13% margin guidance that is still a very robust performance compared to what some of your peers are achieving and also pretty robust compared to some of your prior down cycles.
So could you just give us a little bit more color on what makes you confident that you can handle this down cycle in this way? Thanks Ole.
Well as you know most of our revenue from our company comes from Subsea revenue and backlog.
Those margins and our backlog are fairly robust and strong.
You couple that with the execution improvements that we've made over the last year-and-a-half and that holds up the margins.
Now Subsea Services will be a bigger – an important part of the revenue and we're working hard to protect those margins.
You add to that the cost reduction that we've been implementing really ahead of the downturn.
I think that's kind of important.
When you think about prior downturns we had that big Subsea backlog.
We may have been a little delayed in taking action.
That's not the case this time.
We're acting – I mean you think about it Subsea revenues in 2015 excluding the impact of foreign exchange we're only down 5% yet we have been taking restructuring actions well in advance of that activity downturn.
So I think the cost reduction actions that we've taken quickly and aggressively the quality of our margins and backlog for Subsea and our good work in holding up the Subsea Services activity is what's contributing to what you referred to I think as robust margins.
Yeah.
And if you look a little bit further out than this year what do you see? Clearly nobody has a perfect vision of the future.
Right here it's pretty blurry.
But assuming that this is a normal cycle where at some point back into this year orders start coming back again the cost pressures you highlighted are real.
Your mix is changing a little bit.
Do you think you can manage through this entire cycle with the margins in double digits for this division? Well that's certainly our intent Ole.
I mean in my prepared remarks you heard about the restructuring the steps that we're taking to protect our customer relationships and our alliances.
These are all intended to do that.
But you're right.
I mean we're facing extraordinary unprecedented headwinds with this downturn in the industry.
So it is hard to predict.
Again I refer to the pricing pressure that we're under the project delays the lower level of revenue.
These all put pressure on margins but we're taking a lot of action in a sustainable way to try to protect us.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob MacKenzie from IBERIA Capital.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
A quick question for you guys.
Coming back to the prepared comments I think John you mentioned that operators were willing to adopt more vendor-based approach and you highlighted some of the cost savings you guys have been able to achieve.
At what point do you think the operators start looking at that and saying you know what now is a good time to commit for a multi-decade project versus just looking purely at more of a cash flow-based approach for these big operators? Rob that's a good question.
In today's environment it's so hard to predict when that is because as I said in my prepared remarks this cycle is so different.
In the past capital budgets although maybe reduced were fixed.
The emphasis was always on proving project economics.
Once they were improved met the hurdle rates we had a pretty good chance on that project going forward.
That's all changed now.
Even though project economics have been improved – I was in Norway last week and Statoil has made remarkable progress in part through some of our help to reduce their breakeven on major projects from $70 a barrel to $40 a barrel.
And there is a lot more that we can do but even when you improve project economics it doesn't mean a project will go ahead because of the restrictions on cash flow which is driven by the current oil price.
But you're right at some point as we continue to improve project economics and cash flow hopefully will start to improve that the operators will realize the importance of greenlighting some of these projects and taking the steps to develop these deepwater fields for the purpose of replacing production in future years.
I think that we have to look at this cycle differently and we have to take into account the importance of cash flow as they approve those projects.
Thanks.
And my related follow-up is with the queue of development projects out there how long can we have basically no exploration work and still support kind of current activity levels that you're guiding to in 2016 just off development projects? Yeah.
I mean that's a challenging question.
I mean there has been lots of reports and analysis that says that the severity of the capital reductions eventually leads to supply shortfalls.
And that gap only grows and becomes more extreme as the capital spending reductions continue.
So I think everybody is aware that that's the ramifications and implications of severe capital spending reductions.
When that will occur that's hard to say.
Your next question comes from the line of James West from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning James.
John can you remind us just briefly how much of your Subsea order inbounds are services small projects and the mega projects so we can have an understanding what the baseline could be for 2016.
Fine.
James the service revenue last year was about as Maryann pointed out was just about $1.5 billion.
Our run rate even in the fourth quarter generally supported that.
So we're looking at Subsea Services for 2016 inbound somewhere $1.2 billion $1.3 billion $1.4 billion range.
There'll be some slight headwinds but generally we believe as I said in my prepared remarks for it to be resilient.
The smaller projects as we learned last year are pretty lumpy.
We had a really low level in the first quarter fairly low level in the fourth quarter but strong small project inbound in the second quarter and third quarter.
Last year it was just under about $0.5 billion.
Obviously with the downturn in the industry some of those are going to come under pressure.
And as I said in my prepared remarks hopefully we'll be somewhere close to that because those projects the capital requirements are a bit less.
They have shorter paybacks.
They're in the Gulf of Mexico typically where we have a stronger position.
So we think the smaller projects will be somewhere in that range maybe a little bit less.
It's the large projects that make up the difference.
And those are where a lot of the uncertainty in the industry are today.
And that was really the basis of my remarks.
Absent a significant number of large projects being awarded in 2016 we can't hit or match the same Subsea inbound number that we had in 2015.
So we'd expect a couple of those to be awarded and we're well positioned.
And that will be on top of the service and small project inbound orders that we're projecting for 2016.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Maryann could you help us a little bit with regard to Subsea Technology margins for 1Q? I know 4Q you guys had kind of had saw the early effects of lower well intervention in the North Sea.
I'm hopeful then – is that mitigating some of the margin deterioration that we seasonally typically see at FMC 4Q to 1Q? What's your thoughts around margins for 1Q? Yeah.
Sure Bill.
So you're right as I mentioned on the call last time the Light Well Intervention utilization did come down in October.
And we expect that to continue through the first quarter.
So that step down has largely happened.
However we are taking a volume decline right as you heard from my comments on the full year.
We will take a step down in volume in Q1.
I do expect to see a sequential decline 4-to-1 as we have previously with some similar characteristics in Q2 that'll likely be our strongest quarter.
And then as we come down the volume curve three and four probably a little bit weaker.
But yes I do expect to see a sequential decline Q4 to Q1 again this year.
Just not the similar magnitude we've seen in past years? Yeah.
That's correct Bill.
Okay.
John I guess a question for you just as it relates to large projects.
I was curious you mentioned in your prepared comments the fact that on the Greater Western Flank that was an alliance partner maybe you could help us do you feel like you have better visibility in terms as you guys sit there and try to handicap what projects could get led and which may not this year? Do you get better reads on the guys or more conviction around potential alliance and other frame agreement customers in terms of better clarity on possible awards versus kind of the non-alliance clients? I'm going to make initial remarks and then have Doug respond maybe with some specifics.
Clearly with an alliance partner we have visibility at their entire portfolio.
We're engaged constantly on these projects and how to make them economic.
We have a much greater visibility on how those projects are going and where they are in the queue.
But one of the things that makes it different in this cycle versus past cycles even our alliance partners are uncertain about which projects are actually going to go forward and which ones aren't because they're unsure of their cash flow requirements which are – the cash flow generated because that's changing constantly as oil prices change.
So I would say even though we have more visibility with alliance partners than non-alliance partners even in that context there's been more uncertainty and moving around in reprioritization of projects than what I've seen historically.
But Doug has got some more specific experience on some projects and how they moved around.
So I'd like him to comment.
Doug? Yeah Bill.
If you allow me to look at maybe the next 12 to 15 months versus the calendar year it's a mix of partner and non-partner projects but we're certainly targeting a group of projects.
If we kind of look at it geographically starting in Africa particularly in East Africa as well as Angola there is a series of projects that have been tendered in some cases are being reworked in other cases are being reviewed at this time.
Moving on to Australia again some very strong partner accounts as well as the non-partner accounts in Australia and some activity that we could see coming out of that region as well.
In the Gulf of Mexico we've been tracking some large projects with partner accounts as well as – obviously this is fertile ground for where our partnerships paid off in some of the smaller orders.
And then finally in the North Sea we announced recently the Johan Sverdrup award from Statoil.
The Forsys Subsea put out the press release on Trestakk so we're pretty excited about some of the activity that's going on in the North Sea with Statoil as well as other independent operators.
Your next question comes from the line of Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a question on the Surface guidance.
Maryann I think you indicated your expectation was for revenue to be down about 15% to 20%.
Just wanted to – if you could give us a little bit of color on kind of what your assumption is for maybe either U.S.
rig count or U.S.
spending to help us think about how to think about what your expectation is to get to that kind of revenue number because it seems like most of the E&amp;Ps that are announcing are suggesting spending down as much as 50% or 40%.
So just wanted to get a little bit of a better understanding on what your – maybe what's implied in your guidance for Surface and what you assume for the U.S.
market.
Yes.
Sure Jud.
So the last few months as you know rig count in North America has taken another leg down.
We've taken a good look at that.
We're assuming rig count kind of bounces around this level for the balance of the year so somewhere in that range of about 500 rigs is where our assumptions lie for the balance of the year.
And as I mentioned in my comments we're not assuming that we see recovery throughout the year.
Obviously if that were to change our forecast estimates would change.
But again we're assuming a fairly flat rig count kind of bouncing around that level throughout 2016.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then my follow-up is on just trying to think through some of the shifts in your work in your projects for your Subsea business and maybe I'll use Greater Western Flank as an example.
You're helping your customers get cost down you're doing more standardization.
You're helping them lower their costs.
Can you help us think about the margin opportunity for FMC for some of these new orders relative to maybe where your backlog is.
I understand obviously that's related on pricing.
But it seems like you're using less engineering hours.
So is there a way to think about how margins would be for some of these projects you're discussing now relative to what you reported in 2015 or what's in current backlog? Look.
I mean Jud the bottom of every cycle there has been pricing pressure that has been reflected in margins.
We shouldn't expect this cycle to be any different.
I think what we're trying to articulate is to improve project economics requires not incremental reductions in cost but significant and sustainable reductions in cost which is what we are focused on because it's the challenge for the entire industry.
Even when oil prices were much differently than they are today was to improve economics.
We know that improving execution on these major projects is critical to improving project economics.
We know the industry has not adopted low-cost standards which now we see as an opportunity to push even harder and we see examples as I related on the Greater Western Flank for more standardization.
We also believe that technology can contribute significantly to reducing cost and we're investing in that.
And then finally these new business models which I think is represented again by the Trestakk award and the willingness of a very progressive and successful company like Statoil willing to consider and adopt an entirely different business model for the purpose of a step-change in project costs.
Despite all that we know that there will still be some pricing pressure that will find its way on margins.
Every cycle has been that way.
We want to mitigate that by improving our cost position and we think we can do that.
Now where that settles out? We're going to have to see.
But I think if you just go by past cycles there has been pressure on the margins that result to pricing and we should assume that's going to be the case again.
The next question comes from the line of Scott Gruber from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> John or Maryann your cash balance is now up over $900 million will likely be free cash flow positive this year.
Is the current strategy to keep building that cash balance to start the year is that time to take a look at accelerating the buyback? Yeah.
Good morning.
So yeah.
Thank you.
We've been working diligently to ensure that we have that.
Share repurchase continues to be a viable strategy for us.
And you could see we've repurchased in the fourth quarter.
But in this environment of course we will be cautious.
We will continue to evaluate market conditions we'll continue to evaluate our cash flow and be sure that we are providing the optimal utilization at the greatest return we can and for the shareholders.
But again share repurchase will continue to be a viable strategy for us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That makes sense.
If there are some green shoots in the marketplace would the first use of that cash be to accelerate the buyback? And if so what markers are you looking for in the marketplace? Well I think you know I mean certainly we believe that this valuation our stock is undervalued.
We believe in the long-term opportunity set for deepwater.
We are positioning our company as you can hear from both John's comments Doug's comments and mine as well that we are positioning the company to be able to capitalize on the deepwater market and the North American market.
So we obviously believe there are green shoots and we will be sure that we have the capability and the liquidity and the capacity to be able to respond to those green shoots when we see them.
Clearly commodity price is one of them our ability to achieve the cost reduction initiatives as you've heard both John and Doug talk about with respect to our business model changes both in Subsea and Surface.
We'll clearly present those triggers if you will that you represent for us to respond.
And we stand ready to be able to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Kurt.
So yeah.
I just want to come back around one more time just on the Subsea dynamic.
You've given a lot of good color around that.
I know there is a lot of uncertainty out there.
But in the way that you're maybe thinking of the world for 2016 would a 30% to 50% reduction in Subsea orders and aggregate kind of fit within the way you're looking at the world? Yeah.
I mean Quest has new numbers.
Everybody has new numbers.
As I said the issue is going to be around large projects.
We don't see any mega projects on the horizon.
So in the past when you had a significant uptick in deepwater awards it was usually because there were a couple of billion dollar projects that were awarded.
Those aren't even on the radar screen.
We have a list of projects that are being tracked.
But the ability for those projects to get through the cash flow hurdles and make it into 2016 is limited.
Some of them will be awarded but probably not all of them.
And that speaks to a pretty significant maybe reduction in Subsea awards maybe in the order of magnitude that you described versus prior years.
Okay.
That's good.
That's all in my end.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of David Anderson from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Just a question on the Surface business decrementals were pretty good this quarter.
Just kind of curious how much – can you just remind us how much of that business is international? And also can you just let us know where you stand on the kind of de-layering and fallback integration you had talked about? I'm just trying to figure out how those two components worked within the decrementals and how much is left you think on that kind of de-layering side? So I'll let Doug take the question on the restructuring and de-layering and our progress on really streamlining and leaning out our organizational structure.
Doug? Hi.
Yeah.
So to say we're in the early innings of the process I think is fair.
We've been fairly aggressive and got out in front in terms of the overall reductions.
And I think that's what you're seeing in the decrementals and will continue to do so.
But I think there is a significant upside still to be realized in the value of our commercial offering in the Surface Integrated Solutions business that we've put together.
It's a unique integrated offering that provides significant value to our customers.
The adoption rate has been – we've been pleased with the adoption rate but this is only a few months old.
So we see even more upside from the adoption of the new commercial model.
In terms of the head count reductions and the de-layering that's something we got out in front of early and we'll continue to stay in front of.
Inc.</span></strong> So assuming the international activities' levels hold out like you had talked about in 2016 and with these other initiatives you feel confident that you can keep the kind of decrementals in this territory through 2016? Again similar to how John answered the earlier question on Subsea that is absolutely our intention.
Your next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Maryann I just wanted to clarify on – you previously talked about apart from revenue out of backlog customer support and book-and-turn.
We're talking about Subsea Services revenue where your guidance is.
Does that include customer support book-and-turn as you previously described it? Yeah.
Let me try to be clear.
We typically talk about three if you will revenue streams.
One is obviously what comes from our backlog.
The second being what we call Subsea Services.
And again just to reiterate we do not backlog our Subsea Services.
So our inbound and our revenue are typically very closely matched.
We have a pretty small amount in backlog.
And then the last would be our ability to recognize revenue from current inbound.
We call that book-and-turn.
So for 2016 what I have said is we're expecting very little of book-and-turn to be able to achieve our 2016 inbound just simply because of the variability that's happening on that inbound number as John mentioned.
To the extent that that develops greater or more rapidly then that could be an upside for us for 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for clarifying that.
My other question had to do with these very considerable cost savings restructuring steps you're taking that in response to the downturn especially in Subsea.
In past peak cycles we're kind of accustomed to seeing your margins in the 14% 15% range.
So I know that a lot of your cost cutting here will deliver some benefits in the next upturn.
But I wonder if you have any kind of order of magnitude in terms of margin basis points from this current program of restructuring that you think can be sustained when the business cycle improves? Robin we're actually very excited about our ability to restructure particularly on the Subsea side but also on the Surface side for that matter to restructure our organization to deliver the same high level of execution that we've delivered over the last two years but doing in a much more efficient way and doing it in a way that's sustainable even when the market comes back.
Now to put a margin percent on that I think as Doug pointed out it's still early days.
But we want to point out that a lot of the steps that we're taking are not just in response to lower activity that they are in fact sustainable.
But where does that come from? Over the course of the last three or four years we've made significant progress in globalizing our manufacturing organization creating global standards.
Today we make a subsea Christmas tree in many locations but we make it the exact same way.
That didn't exist five and ten years ago.
So we're in a position now where through standard practices and processes we can level load throughout the world.
We can reduce our facilities and our footprint yet still keep our ability to execute at a high level.
So that's an important example of how we're permanently reducing our costs.
We've been able to delayer our organization.
A lot of the layers in our organization quite frankly were there because of our struggles with execution because of the rapid growth.
Now that we have a more normal or expect a more normal growth cycle and our execution has improved we don't need the same level of structure.
So as a result we're confident that we can essentially lean out our organization in a way that is sustainable and permanent.
Now we haven't put a number on it because we want to be to honest Robin we want to see it before we start putting a number on it.
But we're very encouraged by the steps we're taking and the impact it will have on the long-term cost structure of our company even in a market recovery.
Your next question comes from the line Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my question.
John you had mentioned Statoil being able to bring down the economics hurdle rate by about close to 40%.
Now as you look at your pipeline of projects that you're pursuing where do you think the breakeven is? And I understand that you mentioned the issue is more cash flows than economics but could you highlight what percentage of projects are in that $50 to $60 per barrel kind of hurdle rate? Well every project is different.
But some of the analysis has been done by us and others suggest that of the deepwater portfolio if you can get a 25% to 30% reduction in the cost something like 70% or so of those become economic.
I'm sure that changes as the outlook for oil prices changes.
But I think – I know – let's use the Statoil example for example.
In their Capital Markets presentation last week they show where they have a $70 – the breakeven has been reduced as you alluded to $70 to $40 on Johan Sverdrup which we were successful in working with Statoil on.
We were able to reduce our cost of the Subsea equipment by something close to 40%.
For Johan Kongsberg Statoil has put a target out there for further double-digit reductions in cost.
So I think the point we would want to make is that fairly quickly now the economics are improving because of the step change in cost on these projects.
And Statoil I think is a good example of not only the progress they made with Johan Sverdrup but the target they've put in place for further reduction.
So I think when you get down to those levels what Statoil did on Sverdrup and what they plan to do on Kongsberg fairly significant number of deepwater projects become economic and breakeven.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And our final question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia from KLR Group.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to get into the new business model a little bit with some more granularity specifically with what was just announced with Statoil.
When you talk about new business model what's kind of changing? What are the mechanics of that so we can really understand how your business is operating differently? I'm going to let Doug talk specifically about particularly the Trestakk project and how that model looks different.
Yeah Darren.
So again we're taking an integrated approach where we're bringing together the capabilities of ourselves as an SPS provider as well as the leading SURF provider Technip.
So in the case of Trestakk we were able to engage early in the process work closely with Statoil to identify opportunities to simplify the field architecture and bring in some new technologies although it's still early in terms of the integrated technology development.
We were able to bring in some unique capabilities between ourselves and Technip to lower the cost and improve the overall project economics.
On top of that we take over the responsibility and the opportunity to do the joint planning to work the schedule to ensure deliverability and to further improve the project economics.
So again it's a combination of simplifying the architecture.
Well first of all early engagement – through early engagement being able to simplify the architecture introduce new technologies and capabilities and then provide a full integrated solution which allows the overall project economics to improve quite considerably.
So if you think about those components between the architecture the technology and let's call it kind of the installation.
If you think about the breakdown and maybe what drove like overall cost savings how would you bucket that amongst those three things that you just mentioned? Well that's where the exciting opportunity lies because again in the case of let's call it integrated technology or proprietary integrated technology that's very much in the early days.
So we think that's going to increasingly provide a much larger component of the overall cost savings.
In this particular case it was really the early engagement driving the simplified field architecture and bringing together the unique capabilities of these two industry leaders.
As we go forward we would expect additional savings and we would expect the shift between the buckets if you will to move more towards unique technologies which will allow us – and it's not just an exchange of hardware.
When we're looking at new technologies we're looking through the joint venture and our alliance at focusing on things like installability operability serviceability over the life of the field.
So it's looking at that four life of field cost and bringing together technology early in the process by that early engagement that's going to allow us to have even greater savings as we move forward.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over now to Mr.
Matthew Seinsheimer for any closing remarks.
This concludes our fourth quarter conference call.
A replay of our call will be available on our website beginning at approximately 2:00 PM Eastern Time today.
We will conduct our first quarter 2016 conference call on April 27 at 9:00 AM Eastern Time.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
Thank you for joining us.
Operator you may end the call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.